---

title: Method for using hybrid data within a healthcare industry optimized cognitive environment
abstract: A method for using hybrid data within a cognitive information processing system environment comprising: receiving data from a plurality of data sources, the plurality of data sources comprising a public data source and a private data source, the public data source comprising publicly available healthcare information, the private data source comprising privately managed, company specific healthcare information; accessing information from the plurality of data sources via a cognitive data management module; and, providing the information to an inference and learning system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460392&OS=09460392&RS=09460392
owner: COGNITIVE SCALE, INC.
number: 09460392
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150224
---
The present invention relates in general to the field of computers and similar technologies and in particular to software utilized in this field. Still more particularly it relates to a method system and computer usable medium for performing cognitive inference and learning operations.

In general big data refers to a collection of datasets so large and complex that they become difficult to process using typical database management tools and traditional data processing approaches. These datasets can originate from a wide variety of sources including computer systems mobile devices credit card transactions television broadcasts and medical equipment as well as infrastructures associated with cities sensor equipped buildings and factories and transportation systems. Challenges commonly associated with big data which may be a combination of structured unstructured and semi structured data include its capture curation storage search sharing analysis and visualization. In combination these challenges make it difficult to efficiently process large quantities of data within tolerable time intervals.

Nonetheless big data analytics hold the promise of extracting insights by uncovering difficult to discover patterns and connections as well as providing assistance in making complex decisions by analyzing different and potentially conflicting options. As such individuals and organizations alike can be provided new opportunities to innovate compete and capture value.

One aspect of big data is dark data which generally refers to data that is either not collected neglected or underutilized. Examples of data that is not currently being collected includes location data prior to the emergence of companies such as Foursquare or social data prior to the advent companies such as Facebook. An example of data that is being collected but is difficult to access at the right time and place includes data associated with the side effects of certain spider bites while on a camping trip. As another example data that is collected and available but has not yet been productized of fully utilized may include disease insights from population wide healthcare records and social media feeds. As a result a case can be made that dark data may in fact be of higher value than big data in general especially as it can likely provide actionable insights when it is combined with readily available data.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a method for using hybrid data within a cognitive information processing system environment comprising receiving data from a plurality of data sources the plurality of data sources comprising a public data source and a private data source the public data source comprising publicly available healthcare information the private data source comprising privately managed company specific healthcare information accessing information from the plurality of data sources via a cognitive data management module and providing the information to an inference and learning system.

A method system and computer usable medium are disclosed for cognitive inference and learning operations. The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In various embodiments the CILS is implemented to perform various cognitive computing operations described in greater detail herein. As used herein cognitive computing broadly refers to a class of computing involving self learning systems that use techniques such as spatial navigation machine vision and pattern recognition to increasingly mimic the way the human brain works. To be more specific earlier approaches to computing typically solved problems by executing a set of instructions codified within software. In contrast cognitive computing approaches are data driven sense making insight extracting problem solving systems that have more in common with the structure of the human brain than with the architecture of contemporary instruction driven computers.

To further differentiate these distinctions traditional computers must first be programmed by humans to perform specific tasks while cognitive systems learn from their interactions with data and humans alike and in a sense program themselves to perform new tasks. To summarize the difference between the two traditional computers are designed to calculate rapidly. Cognitive systems are designed to quickly draw inferences from data and gain new knowledge.

Cognitive systems achieve these abilities by combining various aspects of artificial intelligence natural language processing dynamic learning and hypothesis generation to render vast quantities of intelligible data to assist humans in making better decisions. As such cognitive systems can be characterized as having the ability to interact naturally with people to extend what either humans or machines could do on their own. Furthermore they are typically able to process natural language multi structured data and experience much in the same way as humans. Moreover they are also typically able to learn a knowledge domain based upon the best available data and get better and more immersive over time.

It will be appreciated that more data is currently being produced every day than was recently produced by human beings from the beginning of recorded time. Deep within this ever growing mass of data is a class of data known as dark data which includes neglected information ambient signals and insights that can assist organizations and individuals in augmenting their intelligence and deliver actionable insights through the implementation of cognitive applications. As used herein cognitive applications or cognitive apps broadly refer to cloud based big data interpretive applications that learn from user engagement and data interactions. Such cognitive applications extract patterns and insights from dark data sources that are currently almost completely opaque. Examples of such dark data include disease insights from population wide healthcare records and social media feeds or from new sources of information such as sensors monitoring pollution in delicate marine environments.

Over time it is anticipated that cognitive applications will fundamentally change the ways in which many organizations operate as they invert current issues associated with data volume and variety to enable a smart interactive data supply chain. Ultimately cognitive applications hold the promise of receiving a user query and immediately providing a data driven answer from a masked data supply chain in response. As they evolve it is likewise anticipated that cognitive applications may enable a new class of sixth sense applications that intelligently detect and learn from relevant data and events to offer insights predictions and advice rather than wait for commands. Just as web and mobile applications changed the way people access data cognitive applications may change the way people listen to and become empowered by multi structured data such as emails social media feeds doctors notes transaction records and call logs.

However the evolution of such cognitive applications has associated challenges such as how to detect events ideas images and other content that may be of interest. For example assuming that the role and preferences of a given user are known how is the most relevant information discovered prioritized and summarized from large streams of multi structured data such as news feeds blogs social media structured data and various knowledge bases To further the example what can a healthcare executive be told about their competitor s market share Other challenges include the creation of a contextually appropriate visual summary of responses to questions or queries.

As used herein semantic analysis broadly refers to performing various analysis operations to achieve a semantic level of understanding about language by relating syntactic structures. In various embodiments various syntactic structures are related from the levels of phrases clauses sentences and paragraphs to the level of the body of content as a whole and to its language independent meaning. In certain embodiments the semantic analysis process includes processing a target sentence to parse it into its individual parts of speech tag sentence elements that are related to predetermined items of interest identify dependencies between individual words and perform co reference resolution. For example if a sentence states that the author really likes the hamburgers served by a particular restaurant then the name of the particular restaurant is co referenced to hamburgers. 

As likewise used herein goal optimization broadly refers to performing multi criteria decision making operations to achieve a given goal or target objective. In various embodiments one or more goal optimization processes are implemented by the CILS to define predetermined goals which in turn contribute to the generation of a cognitive insight. For example goals for planning a vacation trip may include low cost e.g. transportation and accommodations location e.g. by the beach and speed e.g. short travel time . In this example it will be appreciated that certain goals may be in conflict with another. As a result a cognitive insight provided by the CILS to a traveler may indicate that hotel accommodations by a beach may cost more than they care to spend.

Collaborative filtering as used herein broadly refers to the process of filtering for information or patterns through the collaborative involvement of multiple agents viewpoints data sources and so forth. The application of such collaborative filtering processes typically involves very large and different kinds of data sets including sensing and monitoring data financial data and user data of various kinds. Collaborative filtering may also refer to the process of making automatic predictions associated with predetermined interests of a user by collecting preferences or other information from many users. For example if person A has the same opinion as a person B for a given issue x then an assertion can be made that person A is more likely to have the same opinion as person B opinion on a different issue y than to have the same opinion on issue y as a randomly chosen person. In various embodiments the collaborative filtering process is implemented with various recommendation engines familiar to those of skill in the art to make recommendations.

As used herein common sense reasoning broadly refers to simulating the human ability to make deductions from common facts they inherently know. Such deductions may be made from inherent knowledge about the physical properties purpose intentions and possible behavior of ordinary things such as people animals objects devices and so on. In various embodiments common sense reasoning processes are implemented to assist the CILS in understanding and disambiguating words within a predetermined context. In certain embodiments the common sense reasoning processes are implemented to allow the CILS to generate text or phrases related to a target word or phrase to perform deeper searches for the same terms. It will be appreciated that if the context of a word is better understood then a common sense understanding of the word can then be used to assist in finding better or more accurate information. In certain embodiments this better or more accurate understanding of the context of a word and its related information allows the CILS to make more accurate deductions which are in turn used to generate cognitive insights.

As likewise used herein natural language processing NLP broadly refers to interactions with a system such as the CILS through the use of human or natural languages. In various embodiments various NLP processes are implemented by the CILS to achieve natural language understanding which enables it to not only derive meaning from human or natural language input but to also generate natural language output.

Summarization as used herein broadly refers to processing a set of information organizing and ranking it and then generating a corresponding summary. As an example a news article may be processed to identify its primary topic and associated observations which are then extracted ranked and then presented to the user. As another example page ranking operations may be performed on the same news article to identify individual sentences rank them order them and determine which of the sentences are most impactful in describing the article and its content. As yet another example a structured data record such as a patient s electronic medical record EMR may be processed using the summarization process to generate sentences and phrases that describes the content of the EMR. In various embodiments various summarization processes are implemented by the CILS to generate summarizations of content streams which are in turn used to generate cognitive insights.

As used herein temporal spatial reasoning broadly refers to reasoning based upon qualitative abstractions of temporal and spatial aspects of common sense knowledge described in greater detail herein. For example it is not uncommon for a predetermined set of data to change over time. Likewise other attributes such as its associated metadata may likewise change over time. As a result these changes may affect the context of the data. To further the example the context of asking someone what they believe they should be doing at 3 00 in the afternoon during the workday while they are at work may be quite different that asking the same user the same question at 3 00 on a Sunday afternoon when they are at home. In various embodiments various temporal spatial reasoning processes are implemented by the CILS to determine the context of queries and associated data which are in turn used to generate cognitive insights.

As likewise used herein entity resolution broadly refers to the process of finding elements in a set of data that refer to the same entity across different data sources e.g. structured non structured streams devices etc. where the target entity does not share a common identifier. In various embodiments the entity resolution process is implemented by the CILS to identify significant nouns adjectives phrases or sentence elements that represent various predetermined entities within one or more domains. From the foregoing it will be appreciated that the implementation of one or more of the semantic analysis goal optimization collaborative filtering common sense reasoning natural language processing summarization temporal spatial reasoning and entity resolution processes by the CILS can facilitate the generation of a semantic cognitive model.

In various embodiments the CILS receives ambient signals curated data and learned knowledge which is then processed by the CILS to generate one or more cognitive graphs . In turn the one or more cognitive graphs are further used by the CILS to generate cognitive insight streams which are then delivered to one or more destinations as described in greater detail herein.

As used herein ambient signals broadly refer to input signals or other data streams that may contain data providing additional insight or context to the curated data and learned knowledge received by the CILS . For example ambient signals may allow the CILS to understand that a user is currently using their mobile device at location x at time y doing activity z . To further the example there is a difference between the user using their mobile device while they are on an airplane versus using their mobile device after landing at an airport and walking between one terminal and another. To extend the example even further ambient signals may add additional context such as the user is in the middle of a three leg trip and has two hours before their next flight. Further they may be in terminal A but their next flight is out of C it is lunchtime and they want to know the best place to eat. Given the available time the user has their current location restaurants that are proximate to their predicted route and other factors such as food preferences the CILS can perform various cognitive operations and provide a recommendation for where the user can eat.

In various embodiments the curated data may include structured unstructured social public private streaming device or other types of data described in greater detail herein. In certain embodiments the learned knowledge is based upon past observations and feedback from the presentation of prior cognitive insight streams and recommendations. In various embodiments the learned knowledge is provided via a feedback look that provides the learned knowledge in the form of a learning stream of data.

As likewise used herein a cognitive graph refers to a representation of expert knowledge associated with individuals and groups over a period of time to depict relationships between people places and things using words ideas audio and images. As such it is a machine readable formalism for knowledge representation that provides a common framework allowing data and knowledge to be shared and reused across user application organization and community boundaries.

In various embodiments the information contained in and referenced by a cognitive graph is derived from many sources e.g. public private social device such as curated data . In certain of these embodiments the cognitive graph assists in the identification and organization of information associated with how people places and things are related to one other. In various embodiments the cognitive graph enables automated agents described in greater detail herein to access the Web more intelligently enumerate inferences through utilization of curated structured data and provide answers to questions by serving as a computational knowledge engine.

In certain embodiments the cognitive graph not only elicits and maps expert knowledge by deriving associations from data it also renders higher level insights and accounts for knowledge creation through collaborative knowledge modeling. In various embodiments the cognitive graph is a machine readable declarative memory system that stores and learns both episodic memory e.g. specific personal experiences associated with an individual or entity and semantic memory which stores factual information e.g. geo location of an airport or restaurant .

For example the cognitive graph may know that a given airport is a place and that there is a list of related places such as hotels restaurants and departure gates. Furthermore the cognitive graph may know that people such as business travelers families and college students use the airport to board flights from various carriers eat at various restaurants or shop at certain retail stores. The cognitive graph may also have knowledge about the key attributes from various retail rating sites that travelers have used to describe the food and their experience at various venues in the airport over the past six months.

In certain embodiments the cognitive insight stream is bidirectional and supports flows of information both too and from destinations . In these embodiments the first flow is generated in response to receiving a query and subsequently delivered to one or more destinations . The second flow is generated in response to detecting information about a user of one or more of the destinations . Such use results in the provision of information to the CILS . In response the CILS processes that information in the context of what it knows about the user and provides additional information to the user such as a recommendation. In various embodiments the cognitive insight stream is configured to be provided in a push stream configuration familiar to those of skill in the art. In certain embodiments the cognitive insight stream is implemented to use natural language approaches familiar to skilled practitioners of the art to support interactions with a user.

In various embodiments the cognitive insight stream may include a stream of visualized insights. As used herein visualized insights broadly refers to cognitive insights that are presented in a visual manner such as a map an infographic images and so forth. In certain embodiments these visualized insights may include various cognitive insights such as What happened What do I know about it What is likely to happen next or What should I do about it In these embodiments the cognitive insight stream is generated by various cognitive agents which are applied to various sources datasets and cognitive graphs. As used herein a cognitive agent broadly refers to a computer program that performs a task with minimum specific directions from users and learns from each interaction with data and human users.

In various embodiments the CILS delivers Cognition as a Service CaaS . As such it provides a cloud based development and execution platform that allow various cognitive applications and services to function more intelligently and intuitively. In certain embodiments cognitive applications powered by the CILS are able to think and interact with users as intelligent virtual assistants. As a result users are able to interact with such cognitive applications by asking them questions and giving them commands. In response these cognitive applications will be able to assist the user in completing tasks and managing their work more efficiently.

In these and other embodiments the CILS can operate as an analytics platform to process big data and dark data as well to provide data analytics through a public private or hybrid cloud environment. As used herein cloud analytics broadly refers to a service model wherein data sources data models processing applications computing power analytic models and sharing or storage of results are implemented within a cloud environment to perform one or more aspects of analytics.

In various embodiments users submit queries and computation requests in a natural language format to the CILS . In response they are provided with a ranked list of relevant answers and aggregated information with useful links and pertinent visualizations through a graphical representation. In these embodiments the cognitive graph generates semantic and temporal maps to reflect the organization of unstructured data and to facilitate meaningful learning from potentially millions of lines of text much in the same way as arbitrary syllables strung together create meaning through the concept of language.

In these and other embodiments the cognitive applications possess situational and temporal awareness based upon ambient signals from users and data which facilitates understanding the user s intent content context and meaning to drive goal driven dialogs and outcomes. Further they are designed to gain knowledge over time from a wide variety of structured non structured and device data sources continuously interpreting and autonomously reprogramming themselves to better understand a given domain. As such they are well suited to support human decision making by proactively providing trusted advice offers and recommendations while respecting user privacy and permissions.

In various embodiments the application accelerators include a cognitive application framework . In certain embodiments the application accelerators and the cognitive application framework support various plug ins and components that facilitate the creation of client applications and cognitive applications . In various embodiments the application accelerators include widgets user interface UI components reports charts and back end integration components familiar to those of skill in the art.

As likewise shown in the cognitive platform includes a management console a development environment application program interfaces APIs sourcing agents a cognitive engine destination agents and platform data all of which are described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the management console is implemented to manage accounts and projects along with user specific metadata that is used to drive processes and operations within the cognitive platform for a predetermined project.

In certain embodiments the development environment is implemented to create custom extensions to the CILS shown in . In various embodiments the development environment is implemented for the development of a custom application which may subsequently be deployed in a public private or hybrid cloud environment. In certain embodiments the development environment is implemented for the development of a custom sourcing agent a custom bridging agent a custom destination agent or various analytics applications or extensions.

In various embodiments the APIs are implemented to build and manage predetermined cognitive applications described in greater detail herein which are then executed on the cognitive platform to generate cognitive insights. Likewise the sourcing agents are implemented in various embodiments to source a variety of multi site multi structured source streams of data described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the cognitive engine includes a dataset engine a graph query engine an insight learning engine and foundation components . In certain embodiments the dataset engine is implemented to establish and maintain a dynamic data ingestion and enrichment pipeline. In these and other embodiments the dataset engine may be implemented to orchestrate one or more sourcing agents to source data. Once the data is sourced the data set engine performs data enriching and other data processing operations described in greater detail herein and generates one or more sub graphs that are subsequently incorporated into a target cognitive graph.

In various embodiments the graph query engine is implemented to receive and process queries such that they can be bridged into a cognitive graph as described in greater detail herein through the use of a bridging agent. In certain embodiments the graph query engine performs various natural language processing NLP familiar to skilled practitioners of the art to process the queries. In various embodiments the insight learning engine is implemented to encapsulate a predetermined algorithm which is then applied to a cognitive graph to generate a result such as a cognitive insight or a recommendation. In certain embodiments one or more such algorithms may contribute to answering a specific question and provide additional cognitive insights or recommendations. In various embodiments two or more of the dataset engine the graph query engine and the insight learning engine may be implemented to operate collaboratively to generate a cognitive insight or recommendation. In certain embodiments one or more of the dataset engine the graph query engine and the insight learning engine may operate autonomously to generate a cognitive insight or recommendation.

The foundation components shown in include various reusable components familiar to those of skill in the art which are used in various embodiments to enable the dataset engine the graph query engine and the insight learning engine to perform their respective operations and processes. Examples of such foundation components include natural language processing NLP components and core algorithms such as cognitive algorithms.

In various embodiments the platform data includes various data repositories described in greater detail herein that are accessed by the cognitive platform to generate cognitive insights. In various embodiments the destination agents are implemented to publish cognitive insights to a consumer of cognitive insight data. Examples of such consumers of cognitive insight data include target databases business intelligence applications and mobile applications. It will be appreciated that many such examples of cognitive insight data consumers are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention. In various embodiments as described in greater detail herein the cloud infrastructure includes cognitive cloud management components and cloud analytics infrastructure components .

In various embodiments the application accelerators include a cognitive application framework . In certain embodiments the application accelerators and the cognitive application framework support various plug ins and components that facilitate the creation of client applications and cognitive applications . In various embodiments the application accelerators include widgets user interface UI components reports charts and back end integration components familiar to those of skill in the art. It will be appreciated that many such application accelerators are possible and their provided functionality selection provision and support are a matter of design choice. As such the application accelerators described in greater detail herein are not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

As shown in the cognitive platform includes a management console a development environment application program interfaces APIs sourcing agents a cognitive engine destination agents platform data and a crawl framework . In various embodiments the management console is implemented to manage accounts and projects along with management metadata that is used to drive processes and operations within the cognitive platform for a predetermined project.

In various embodiments the management console is implemented to run various services on the cognitive platform . In certain embodiments the management console is implemented to manage the configuration of the cognitive platform . In certain embodiments the management console is implemented to establish the development environment . In various embodiments the management console may be implemented to manage the development environment once it is established. Skilled practitioners of the art will realize that many such embodiments are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In various embodiments the development environment is implemented to create custom extensions to the CILS shown in . In these and other embodiments the development environment is implemented to support various programming languages such as Python Java R and others familiar to skilled practitioners of the art. In various embodiments the development environment is implemented to allow one or more of these various programming languages to create a variety of analytic models and applications. As an example the development environment may be implemented to support the R programming language which in turn can be used to create an analytic model that is then hosted on the cognitive platform .

In certain embodiments the development environment is implemented for the development of various custom applications or extensions related to the cognitive platform which may subsequently be deployed in a public private or hybrid cloud environment. In various embodiments the development environment is implemented for the development of various custom sourcing agents custom enrichment agents custom bridging agents custom insight agents custom destination agents and custom learning agents which are described in greater detail herein.

In various embodiments the APIs are implemented to build and manage predetermined cognitive applications described in greater detail herein which are then executed on the cognitive platform to generate cognitive insights. In these embodiments the APIs may include one or more of a project and dataset API a cognitive search API a cognitive insight API and other APIs. The selection of the individual APIs implemented in various embodiments is a matter design choice and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In various embodiments the project and dataset API is implemented with the management console to enable the management of a variety of data and metadata associated with various cognitive insight projects and user accounts hosted or supported by the cognitive platform . In one embodiment the data and metadata managed by the project and dataset API are associated with billing information familiar to those of skill in the art. In one embodiment the project and dataset API is used to access a data stream that is created configured and orchestrated as described in greater detail herein by the dataset engine .

In various embodiments the cognitive search API uses natural language processes familiar to those of skill in the art to search a target cognitive graph. Likewise the cognitive insight API is implemented in various embodiments to configure the insight learning engine to provide access to predetermined outputs from one or more cognitive graph algorithms that are executing in the cognitive platform . In certain embodiments the cognitive insight API is implemented to subscribe to or request such predetermined outputs.

In various embodiments the sourcing agents may include a batch upload agent an API connectors agent a real time streams agent a Structured Query Language SQL Not Only SQL NoSQL databases agent a message engines agent and one or more custom sourcing agents. Skilled practitioners of the art will realize that other types of sourcing agents may be used in various embodiments and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention. In various embodiments the sourcing agents are implemented to source a variety of multi site multi structured source streams of data described in greater detail herein. In certain embodiments each of the sourcing agents has a corresponding API.

In various embodiments the batch uploading agent is implemented for batch uploading of data to the cognitive platform . In these embodiments the uploaded data may include a single data element a single data record or file or a plurality of data records or files. In certain embodiments the data may be uploaded from more than one source and the uploaded data may be in a homogenous or heterogeneous form. In various embodiments the API connectors agent is implemented to manage interactions with one or more predetermined APIs that are external to the cognitive platform . As an example Associated Press may have their own API for news stories Expedia for travel information or the National Weather Service for weather information. In these examples the API connectors agent would be implemented to determine how to respectively interact with each organization s API such that the cognitive platform can receive information.

In various embodiments the real time streams agent is implemented to receive various streams of data such as social media streams e.g. Twitter feeds or other data streams e.g. device data streams . In these embodiments the streams of data are received in near real time. In certain embodiments the data streams include temporal attributes. As an example as data is added to a blog file it is time stamped to create temporal data. Other examples of a temporal data stream include Twitter feeds stock ticker streams device location streams from a device that is tracking location medical devices tracking a patient s vital signs and intelligent thermostats used to improve energy efficiency for homes.

In certain embodiments the temporal attributes define a time window which can be correlated to various elements of data contained in the stream. For example as a given time window changes associated data may have a corresponding change. In various embodiments the temporal attributes do not define a time window. As an example a social media feed may not have predetermined time windows yet it is still temporal. As a result the social media feed can be processed to determine what happened in the last 24 hours what happened in the last hour what happened in the last 15 minutes and then determine related subject matter that is trending.

In various embodiments the SQL NoSQL databases agent is implemented to interact with one or more target databases familiar to those of skill in the art. For example the target database may include a SQL NoSQL delimited flat file or other form of database. In various embodiments the message engines agent is implemented to provide data to the cognitive platform from one or more message engines such as a message queue MQ system a message bus a message broker an enterprise service bus ESB and so forth. Skilled practitioners of the art will realize that there are many such examples of message engines with which the message engines agent may interact and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In various embodiments the custom sourcing agents which are purpose built are developed through the use of the development environment described in greater detail herein. Examples of custom sourcing agents include sourcing agents for various electronic medical record EMR systems at various healthcare facilities. Such EMR systems typically collect a variety of healthcare information much of it the same yet it may be collected stored and provided in different ways. In this example the custom sourcing agents allow the cognitive platform to receive information from each disparate healthcare source.

In various embodiments the cognitive engine includes a dataset engine a graph engine an insight learning engine learning agents and foundation components . In these and other embodiments the dataset engine is implemented as described in greater detail to establish and maintain a dynamic data ingestion and enrichment pipeline. In various embodiments the dataset engine may include a pipelines component an enrichment component a storage component and one or more enrichment agents .

In various embodiments the pipelines component is implemented to ingest various data provided by the sourcing agents . Once ingested this data is converted by the pipelines component into streams of data for processing. In certain embodiments these managed streams are provided to the enrichment component which performs data enrichment operations familiar to those of skill in the art. As an example a data stream may be sourced from Associated Press by a sourcing agent and provided to the dataset engine . The pipelines component receives the data stream and routes it to the enrichment component which then enriches the data stream by performing sentiment analysis geotagging and entity detection operations to generate an enriched data stream. In certain embodiments the enrichment operations include filtering operations familiar to skilled practitioners of the art. To further the preceding example the Associated Press data stream may be filtered by a predetermined geography attribute to generate an enriched data stream.

The enriched data stream is then subsequently stored as described in greater detail herein in a predetermined location. In various embodiments the enriched data stream is cached by the storage component to provide a local version of the enriched data stream. In certain embodiments the cached enriched data stream is implemented to be replayed by the cognitive engine . In one embodiment the replaying of the cached enriched data stream allows incremental ingestion of the enriched data stream instead of ingesting the entire enriched data stream at one time. In various embodiments one or more enrichment agents are implemented to be invoked by the enrichment component to perform one or more enrichment operations described in greater detail herein.

In various embodiments the graph query engine is implemented to receive and process queries such that they can be bridged into a cognitive graph as described in greater detail herein through the use of a bridging agent. In these embodiments the graph query engine may include a query component a translate component a bridge component and one or more bridging agents .

In various embodiments the query component is implemented to support natural language queries. In these and other embodiments the query component receives queries processes them e.g. using NLP processes and then maps the processed query to a target cognitive graph. In various embodiments the translate component is implemented to convert the processed queries provided by the query component into a form that can be used to query a target cognitive graph. To further differentiate the distinction between the functionality respectively provided by the query and translate components the query component is oriented toward understanding a query from a user. In contrast the translate component is oriented to translating a query that is understood into a form that can be used to query a cognitive graph.

In various embodiments the bridge component is implemented to generate an answer to a query provided by the translate component. In certain embodiments the bridge component is implemented to provide domain specific responses when bridging a translated query to a cognitive graph. For example the same query bridged to a target cognitive graph by the bridge component may result in different answers for different domains dependent upon domain specific bridging operations performed by the bridge component.

To further differentiate the distinction between the translate component and the bridging component the translate component relates to a general domain translation of a question. In contrast the bridging component allows the question to be asked in the context of a specific domain e.g. healthcare travel etc. given what is known about the data. In certain embodiments the bridging component is implemented to process what is known about the translated query in the context of the user to provide an answer that is relevant to a specific domain.

As an example a user may ask Where should I eat today If the user has been prescribed a particular health regimen the bridging component may suggest a restaurant with a heart healthy menu. However if the user is a business traveler the bridging component may suggest the nearest restaurant that has the user s favorite food. In various embodiments the bridging component may provide answers or suggestions that are composed and ranked according to a specific domain of use. In various embodiments the bridging agent is implemented to interact with the bridging component to perform bridging operations described in greater detail herein. In these embodiments the bridging agent interprets a translated query generated by the query component within a predetermined user context and then maps it to predetermined nodes and links within a target cognitive graph.

In various embodiments the insight learning engine is implemented to encapsulate a predetermined algorithm which is then applied to a target cognitive graph to generate a result such as a cognitive insight or a recommendation. In certain embodiments one or more such algorithms may contribute to answering a specific question and provide additional cognitive insights or recommendations. In these and other embodiments the insight learning engine is implemented to perform insight learning operations described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the insight learning engine may include a discover visibility component a predict component a rank recommend component and one or more insight agents.

In various embodiments the discover visibility component is implemented to provide detailed information related to a predetermined topic such as a subject or an event along with associated historical information. In certain embodiments the predict component is implemented to perform predictive operations to provide insight into what may next occur for a predetermined topic. In various embodiments the rank recommend component is implemented to perform ranking and recommendation operations to provide a user prioritized recommendations associated with a provided cognitive insight.

In certain embodiments the insight learning engine may include additional components. For example the additional components may include classification algorithms clustering algorithms and so forth. Skilled practitioners of the art will realize that many such additional components are possible and that the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention. In various embodiments the insights agents are implemented to create a visual data story highlighting user specific insights relationships and recommendations. As a result it can share operationalize or track business insights in various embodiments. In various embodiments the learning agent work in the background to continually update the cognitive graph as described in greater detail herein from each unique interaction with data and users.

In various embodiments the destination agents are implemented to publish cognitive insights to a consumer of cognitive insight data. Examples of such consumers of cognitive insight data include target databases business intelligence applications and mobile applications. In various embodiments the destination agents may include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP stream agent an API connectors agent a databases agent a message engines agent a mobile push notification agent and one or more custom destination agents. Skilled practitioners of the art will realize that other types of destination agents may be used in various embodiments and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention. In certain embodiments each of the destination agents has a corresponding API.

In various embodiments the HTTP stream agent is implemented for providing various HTTP streams of cognitive insight data to a predetermined cognitive data consumer. In these embodiments the provided HTTP streams may include various HTTP data elements familiar to those of skill in the art. In certain embodiments the HTTP streams of data are provided in near real time. In various embodiments the API connectors agent is implemented to manage interactions with one or more predetermined APIs that are external to the cognitive platform . As an example various target databases business intelligence applications and mobile applications may each have their own unique API.

In various embodiments the databases agent is implemented for provision of cognitive insight data to one or more target databases familiar to those of skill in the art. For example the target database may include a SQL NoSQL delimited flat file or other form of database. In these embodiments the provided cognitive insight data may include a single data element a single data record or file or a plurality of data records or files. In certain embodiments the data may be provided to more than one cognitive data consumer and the provided data may be in a homogenous or heterogeneous form. In various embodiments the message engines agent is implemented to provide cognitive insight data to one or more message engines such as a message queue MQ system a message bus a message broker an enterprise service bus ESB and so forth. Skilled practitioners of the art will realize that there are many such examples of message engines with which the message engines agent may interact and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In various embodiments the custom destination agents which are purpose built are developed through the use of the development environment described in greater detail herein. Examples of custom destination agents include destination agents for various electronic medical record EMR systems at various healthcare facilities. Such EMR systems typically collect a variety of healthcare information much of it the same yet it may be collected stored and provided in different ways. In this example the custom destination agents allow such EMR systems to receive cognitive insight data in a form they can use.

In various embodiments data that has been cleansed normalized and enriched by the dataset engine as described in greater detail herein is provided by a destination agent to a predetermined destination likewise described in greater detail herein. In these embodiments neither the graph query engine nor the insight learning engine are implemented to perform their respective functions.

In various embodiments the foundation components are implemented to enable the dataset engine the graph query engine and the insight learning engine to perform their respective operations and processes. In these and other embodiments the foundation components may include an NLP core component an NLP services component and a dynamic pipeline engine . In various embodiments the NLP core component is implemented to provide a set of predetermined NLP components for performing various NLP operations described in greater detail herein.

In these embodiments certain of these NLP core components are surfaced through the NLP services component while some are used as libraries. Examples of operations that are performed with such components include dependency parsing parts of speech tagging sentence pattern detection and so forth. In various embodiments the NLP services component is implemented to provide various internal NLP services which are used to perform entity detection summarization and other operations likewise described in greater detail herein. In these embodiments the NLP services component is implemented to interact with the NLP core component to provide predetermined NLP services such as summarizing a target paragraph.

In various embodiments the dynamic pipeline engine is implemented to interact with the dataset engine to perform various operations related to receiving one or more sets of data from one or more sourcing agents apply enrichment to the data and then provide the enriched data to a predetermined destination. In these and other embodiments the dynamic pipeline engine manages the distribution of these various operations to a predetermined compute cluster and tracks versioning of the data as it is processed across various distributed computing resources. In certain embodiments the dynamic pipeline engine is implemented to perform data sovereignty management operations to maintain sovereignty of the data.

In various embodiments the platform data includes various data repositories described in greater detail herein that are accessed by the cognitive platform to generate cognitive insights. In these embodiments the platform data repositories may include repositories of dataset metadata cognitive graphs models crawl data and management metadata . In various embodiments the dataset metadata is associated with curated data contained in the repository of cognitive graphs . In these and other embodiments the repository of dataset metadata contains dataset metadata that supports operations performed by the storage component of the dataset engine . For example if a Mongo NoSQL database with ten million items is being processed and the cognitive platform fails after ingesting nine million of the items then the dataset metadata may be able to provide a checkpoint that allows ingestion to continue at the point of failure instead restarting the ingestion process.

Those of skill in the art will realize that the use of such dataset metadata in various embodiments allows the dataset engine to be stateful. In certain embodiments the dataset metadata allows support of versioning. For example versioning may be used to track versions of modifications made to data such as in data enrichment processes described in greater detail herein. As another example geotagging information may have been applied to a set of data during a first enrichment process which creates a first version of enriched data. Adding sentiment data to the same million records during a second enrichment process creates a second version of enriched data. In this example the dataset metadata stored in the dataset metadata provides tracking of the different versions of the enriched data and the differences between the two.

In various embodiments the repository of cognitive graphs is implemented to store cognitive graphs generated accessed and updated by the cognitive engine in the process of generating cognitive insights. In various embodiments the repository of cognitive graphs may include one or more repositories of curated data described in greater detail herein. In certain embodiments the repositories of curated data includes data that has been curated by one or more users machine operations or a combination of the two by performing various sourcing filtering and enriching operations described in greater detail herein. In these and other embodiments the curated data is ingested by the cognitive platform and then processed as likewise described in greater detail herein to generate cognitive insights. In various embodiments the repository of models is implemented to store models that are generated accessed and updated by the cognitive engine in the process of generating cognitive insights. As used herein models broadly refer to machine learning models. In certain embodiments the models include one or more statistical models.

In various embodiments the crawl framework is implemented to support various crawlers familiar to skilled practitioners of the art. In certain embodiments the crawlers are custom configured for various target domains. For example different crawlers may be used for various travel forums travel blogs travel news and other travel sites. In various embodiments data collected by the crawlers is provided by the crawl framework to the repository of crawl data . In these embodiments the collected crawl data is processed and then stored in a normalized form in the repository of crawl data . The normalized data is then provided to SQL NoSQL database agent which in turn provides it to the dataset engine . In one embodiment the crawl database is a NoSQL database such as Mongo .

In various embodiments the repository of management metadata is implemented to store user specific metadata used by the management console to manage accounts e.g. billing information and projects. In certain embodiments the user specific metadata stored in the repository of management metadata is used by the management console to drive processes and operations within the cognitive platform for a predetermined project. In various embodiments the user specific metadata stored in the repository of management metadata is used to enforce data sovereignty. It will be appreciated that many such embodiments are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

Referring now to the cloud infrastructure may include a cognitive cloud management component and a cloud analytics infrastructure component in various embodiments. Current examples of a cloud infrastructure include Amazon Web Services AWS available from Amazon.com of Seattle Wash. IBM Softlayer available from International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Nebula Openstack a joint project between Raskspace Hosting of Windcrest Tex. and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA . In these embodiments the cognitive cloud management component may include a management playbooks sub component a cognitive cloud management console sub component a data console sub component an asset repository sub component. In certain embodiments the cognitive cloud management component may include various other sub components.

In various embodiments the management playbooks sub component is implemented to automate the creation and management of the cloud analytics infrastructure component along with various other operations and processes related to the cloud infrastructure . As used herein management playbooks broadly refers to any set of instructions or data such as scripts and configuration data that is implemented by the management playbooks sub component to perform its associated operations and processes.

In various embodiments the cognitive cloud management console sub component is implemented to provide a user visibility and management controls related to the cloud analytics infrastructure component along with various other operations and processes related to the cloud infrastructure . In various embodiments the data console sub component is implemented to manage platform data described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the asset repository sub component is implemented to provide access to various cognitive cloud infrastructure assets such as asset configurations machine images and cognitive insight stack configurations.

In various embodiments the cloud analytics infrastructure component may include a data grid sub component a distributed compute engine sub component and a compute cluster management sub component. In these embodiments the cloud analytics infrastructure component may also include a distributed object storage sub component a distributed full text search sub component a document database sub component a graph database sub component and various other sub components. In various embodiments the data grid sub component is implemented to provide distributed and shared memory that allows the sharing of objects across various data structures. One example of a data grid sub component is Redis an open source networked in memory key value data store with optional durability written in ANSI C. In various embodiments the distributed compute engine sub component is implemented to allow the cognitive platform to perform various cognitive insight operations and processes in a distributed computing environment. Examples of such cognitive insight operations and processes include batch operations and streaming analytics processes.

In various embodiments the compute cluster management sub component is implemented to manage various computing resources as a compute cluster. One such example of such a compute cluster management sub component is Mesos Nimbus a cluster management platform that manages distributed hardware resources into a single pool of resources that can be used by application frameworks to efficiently manage workload distribution for both batch jobs and long running services. In various embodiments the distributed object storage sub component is implemented to manage the physical storage and retrieval of distributed objects e.g. binary file image text etc. in a cloud environment. Examples of a distributed object storage sub component include Amazon S3 available from Amazon.com of Seattle Wash. and Swift an open source scalable and redundant storage system.

In various embodiments the distributed full text search sub component is implemented to perform various full text search operations familiar to those of skill in the art within a cloud environment. In various embodiments the document database sub component is implemented to manage the physical storage and retrieval of structured data in a cloud environment. Examples of such structured data include social public private and device data as described in greater detail herein. In certain embodiments the structured data includes data that is implemented in the JavaScript Object Notation JSON format. One example of a document database sub component is Mongo an open source cross platform document oriented database. In various embodiments the graph database sub component is implemented to manage the physical storage and retrieval of cognitive graphs. One example of a graph database sub component is GraphDB an open source graph database familiar to those of skill in the art.

In various embodiments multi site multi structured source streams are provided by sourcing agents as described in greater detail herein. In these embodiments the source streams are dynamically ingested in real time during the perceive phase and based upon a predetermined context extraction parsing and tagging operations are performed on language text and images contained in the source streams . Automatic feature extraction and modeling operations are then performed with the previously processed source streams during the relate phase to generate queries to identify related data i.e. corpus expansion .

In various embodiments operations are performed during the operate phase to discover summarize and prioritize various concepts which are in turn used to generate actionable recommendations and notifications associated with predetermined plan based optimization goals. The resulting actionable recommendations and notifications are then processed during the process and execute phase to provide cognitive insights such as recommendations to various predetermined destinations and associated application programming interfaces APIs .

In various embodiments features from newly observed data are automatically extracted from user feedback during the learn phase to improve various analytical models. In these embodiments the learn phase includes feedback on observations generated during the relate phase which is provided to the perceive phase. Likewise feedback on decisions resulting from operations performed during the operate phase and feedback on results resulting from operations performed during the process and execute phase are also provided to the perceive phase.

In various embodiments user interactions result from operations performed during the process and execute phase. In these embodiments data associated with the user interactions are provided to the perceive phase as unfolding interactions which include events that occur external to the CILS operations described in greater detail herein. As an example a first query from a user may be submitted to the CILS system which in turn generates a first cognitive insight which is then provided to the user. In response the user may respond by providing a first response or perhaps a second query either of which is provided in the same context as the first query. The CILS receives the first response or second query performs various CILS operations and provides the user a second cognitive insight. As before the user may respond with a second response or a third query again in the context of the first query. Once again the CILS performs various CILS operations and provides the user a third cognitive insight and so forth. In this example the provision of cognitive insights to the user and their various associated responses results in unfolding interactions which in turn result in a stateful dialog that evolves over time. Skilled practitioners of the art will likewise realize that such unfolding interactions occur outside of the CILS operations performed by the cognitive platform .

The enriched data streams are then provided to a bridging agent which is used to perform bridging operations described in greater detail herein. In turn the results of the bridging operations are provided to an insight agent which is implemented as described in greater detail herein to create a visual data story highlighting user specific insights relationships and recommendations. The resulting visual data story is then provided to a destination agent which is implemented to publish cognitive insights to a consumer of cognitive insight data likewise as described in greater detail herein. In response the consumer of cognitive insight data provides feedback to a learning agent which is implemented as described in greater detail herein to provide the feedback to the sourcing agent at which point the CILS agents lifecycle is continued. From the foregoing skilled practitioners of the art will recognize that each iteration of the cognitive agents lifecycle provides more informed cognitive insights.

As likewise shown in the private network environment includes a private cognitive platform such as the cognitive platform shown in through . In various embodiments the private network cognitive cloud environment may also include one or more repositories of application data and private data . Likewise the private cognitive platform may also include a cloud analytics infrastructure such as the cloud analytics infrastructure shown in . In certain embodiments the private network environment may have one or more private applications implemented to interact with the private cognitive platform .

In various embodiments a secure tunnel such as a virtual private network VPN tunnel is implemented to allow the hosted cognitive platform and the on site cognitive platform to communicate with one another. In these embodiments the ability to communicate with one another allows the hosted cognitive platform and the private cognitive platform to work collaboratively when generating cognitive insights described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the hosted cognitive platform accesses the repositories of application data and private data to generate various cognitive insights which are then provided to the private cognitive platform . In certain embodiments data stored in the repositories of application data and private data is provided to the private cognitive platform in the form of public data and cognitive graphs.

In various embodiments the private cognitive platform accesses the repositories of application data and private data to generate various cognitive insights which are then provided to the one or more private applications . In certain embodiments the private cognitive platform uses the public data and cognitive graphs provided by the hosted cognitive platform to generate various cognitive insights which a then provided to the one or more private applications . In various embodiments the private cognitive platform accesses the repositories of application data and private data as well as uses the public data and cognitive graphs provided by the hosted cognitive platform to generate various cognitive insights. Once generated the cognitive insights are then provided to the one or more private applications . Skilled practitioners of the art will recognize that many such embodiments are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In various embodiments the private network is implemented and managed by a travel industry entity such as an airline hotel chain automobile rental company or travel agency. In these embodiments the private cognitive platform is likewise implemented and managed by the travel industry entity to perform various cognitive insight operations relevant to travel activities. In certain embodiments the private cognitive platform is implemented to access travel industry specific application data and private data as described in greater detail herein. In these embodiments the travel industry related application data and private data is specific to the travel industry entity. In one embodiment the travel industry related application data and private data is private to the travel industry entity.

In various embodiments the private network is implemented and managed by a healthcare industry entity such as hospital or healthcare management organization. In these embodiments the private cognitive platform is likewise implemented and managed by the healthcare industry entity to perform various cognitive insight operations relevant to healthcare. In certain embodiments the private cognitive platform is implemented to access healthcare industry specific application data and private data as described in greater detail herein. In these embodiments the healthcare industry related application data and private data is specific to the healthcare industry entity. In one embodiment the healthcare industry related application data and private data is private to the healthcare industry entity.

In the data lifecycle phase a predetermined cognitive platform instantiation sources social data public data licensed data and proprietary data from various sources as described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments an example of a cognitive platform instantiation is the cognitive platform shown in through . In this embodiment the cognitive platform instantiation includes a source component a process component a deliver component a cleanse component an enrich component a filter transform component and a repair reject component. Likewise as shown in the process component includes a repository of models described in greater detail herein.

In various embodiments the process component is implemented to perform various cognitive insight generation and other processing operations described in greater detail herein. In these embodiments the process component is implemented to interact with the source component which in turn is implemented to perform various data sourcing operations described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the sourcing operations are performed by one or more sourcing agents as likewise described in greater detail herein. The resulting sourced data is then provided to the process component. In turn the process component is implemented to interact with the cleanse component which is implemented to perform various data cleansing operations familiar to those of skill in the art. As an example the cleanse component may perform data normalization or pruning operations likewise known to skilled practitioners of the art. In certain embodiments the cleanse component may be implemented to interact with the repair reject component which in turn is implemented to perform various data repair or data rejection operations known to those of skill in the art.

Once data cleansing repair and rejection operations are completed the process component is implemented to interact with the enrich component which is implemented to perform various data enrichment operations described in greater detail herein. Once data enrichment operations have been completed the process component is likewise implemented to interact with the filter transform which in turn is implemented to perform data filtering and transformation operations described in greater detail.

In various embodiments the process component is implemented to generate various models described in greater detail herein which are stored in the repository of models . The process component is likewise implemented in various embodiments use the sourced data to generate one or more cognitive graphs as described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the process component is implemented to gain an understanding of the data sourced from the sources of social data public data licensed data and proprietary data which assist in the automated generation of the cognitive graph .

The process component is likewise implemented in various embodiments to perform bridging operations likewise described in greater detail to access the cognitive graph . In certain embodiments the bridging operations are performed by bridging agents as described in greater detail herein. In various embodiments the cognitive graph is accessed by the process component during the learning phase of the cognitive insight generation operations.

In various embodiments a cognitive application is implemented to receive user input such as a user query which is then submitted during the application insight composition phase to a graph query engine . In turn the graph query engine processes the user query to generate a graph query as described in greater detail herein. The graph query is then used to query the cognitive graph which results in the generation of one or more cognitive insights. In various embodiments the process component is implemented to provide these cognitive insights to the deliver which in turn is implemented to deliver the cognitive insights in the form of a visual data summary to the cognitive application . In various embodiments as described in the descriptive text associated with learning operations are iteratively performed during the learning phase to provide more accurate and useful cognitive insights.

In various embodiments the cognitive insight generation operations are performed to generate travel relevant cognitive insights. In these embodiments the social data public data licensed data and proprietary data sourced from various sources may contain travel relevant data. For example the licensed data may be ticket sale information from Sojurn weather data from Weather Underground Weather.com and so forth. Likewise public data may be Department of Transportation DOT Bureau of Transportation Services BTS of on time arrival information provided by various airlines. Proprietary data may likewise include data privately owned data such as an airline s frequent flier information that is only used internally to the airline.

As described in greater detail herein the cognitive platform instantiation is implemented in these embodiments to process this travel relevant data and other associated data to generate travel relevant cognitive insights. As an example a user may provide a travel relevant user query to a travel website such as TripAdvisor.com. In this example the cognitive insight generation operations are performed to provide an enhanced cognitive search of the travel relevant website to find a preferred destination for a specific time frame for the user. To extend the example the travel relevant user query may not be in the form of a traditional query. Instead the user may submit a statement such as I want to go on a vacation with my family to the beach in Florida in July. or possibly I want to go to Utah in May on a mountain biking trip. To extend the example further the user may also state I want to use my frequent flier miles for airline travel and my awards program points for my accommodations. 

In various embodiments a user query that includes such statements is processed by the graph query engine to generate one or more travel relevant graph queries . In these embodiments these travel relevant graph queries are implemented to understand concepts like destinations travel related activities and purpose of travel. Examples of such concepts include the difference between a honeymoon and a business trip time frames that are related to travel e.g. flight segments time zones etc. and various recreational venues.

The resulting graph queries are then used to query a travel relevant instantiation of the cognitive graph which in turn results in the generation of one or more travel relevant cognitive insights. In certain of these embodiments the cognitive graph contains travel relevant data such as locations hotels prices promotions and so forth. In various embodiments the deliver component is implemented to provide the travel relevant cognitive insights in the form of a visual data summary . As an example the visual data summary may be provided to the user as a travel review. In various embodiments the visual data summary may be provided to a predetermined destination associated with the user. In these embodiments the destination may be a mobile application an alert a business intelligence application a statistical tool a third party application a marketplace or an application program interface API .

Although the present invention has been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

