---

title: Method of locating a fault in a power distribution system comprising at least one cogeneration distributed resource
abstract: The present invention provides a method to ensure that distributed resources of a power distribution system remain connected to the circuitry of the power distribution system when a fault occurs at a distributed resource node to assist in identifying the location of the fault by continuing to inject current from the distributed resources into the distribution system, wherein at least one of the distributed resources is a cogeneration resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417276&OS=09417276&RS=09417276
owner: The Florida State University Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 09417276
owner_city: Tallahassee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151208
---
This invention claims priority to currently pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 166 467 filed on Jan. 28 2014 and entitled Voltage Profile Based Fault Location Identification System and Method of Use which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 757 507 filed on Jan. 28 2013 and entitled Voltage Profile Based Fault Identification .

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. EEC0812121 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to a voltage profile based fault location identification system for use in a power distribution system. The voltage profile based fault location identification system includes power electronic converters and employs a short circuit limiting fault current.

The IEEE interconnection standard recommends that the distributed resources DRs of a power distribution system be disconnected from the power distribution system when the voltage level falls below a recommended threshold to ensure that the distributed resources do not inject power onto the main power grid of the power distribution system. The IEEE interconnection standard is additionally based on the fact that as the voltage level of the distribution system drops the distributed resource s voltage reference from the substation may no longer be available or may no longer be accurate.

Identifying the location of a fault in a traditional power system is a challenging task. Electric power only flows in one direction i.e. from the substation to the various loads. Therefore when a severe short circuit fault occurs in a distribution system there is an associated current rise and accompanying voltage sag near the faulted node which extends to every node that is downstream of the faulted node. The fault protection system of a power distribution system currently known in the art responds to the short circuit fault by isolating the assumed faulted nodes and all the downstream nodes of the actual faulted node.

In a power distribution system containing distributed resources most fault location technologies known in the art ignore the presence of the distributed resources by assuming either low distributed resource penetration or no power injection from the distributed resources during a fault situation. While there are additional fault location technologies known in the art that do consider the presence of distributed resources these technologies do not consider a current limited system when a fault situation does occur.

Accordingly what is needed in the art is a system and method for fault location identification in a power distribution system that addresses the presence of distributed resources and provides a current limited system when a fault occurs.

The present invention provides a method to ensure that distributed resources remain connected to the circuit to assist in the fault location by continuing to inject current in the distribution system. The system contains a plurality of power electronic based converters which convert local direct current DC of the distributed resources DRs to the power grid alternating current AC . These converters also have the ability to limit the current in the system when a fault occurs hence protecting the system equipment against high fault currents.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method of identifying the location of a fault in a power distribution system is provided. In the present invention the power distribution system includes a plurality of distributed resources and the method includes injecting by one or more of the plurality of distributed resources a current into the power distribution system generating a voltage profile resulting from the injection of current by the one or more distributed resources and analyzing the voltage profile to identify the location of the fault in the power distribution system.

In an additional embodiment the present invention provides a system for locating a fault in a power distribution system. The system includes a power distribution system including a plurality of distributed resources coupled to the power distribution system one or more of the plurality of distributed resources comprising a controllable voltage source converter configured to inject a current into the power distribution system. The system further includes a voltage profile generator configured for generating a voltage profile resulting from the injection of current by the one or more distributed resources and an analyzer configured for analyzing the voltage profile to identify the location of the fault in the power distribution system.

The invention accordingly comprises the features of construction combination of elements and arrangement of parts that will be exemplified in the disclosure set forth hereinafter and the scope of the invention will be indicated in the claims.

Modern power distribution systems include distributed resources that provide local power generation and are connected to the power distribution system. Such local power generation sources include photovoltaic PV systems wind systems and microturbines. The number and diversity of these local power generation sources is rapidly increasing. As the number of local power sources connected to an existing power distribution system rises the distribution system fault location methods currently known in the art have become increasingly inadequate. Reasons for the increasing inadequacy of the current fault location methods include unreasonable cost of the system system complexity mesh like topology and bidirectional power flow in the distribution system that is not addressed by the current fault location methodologies.

The fault location identification system of the present invention takes advantage of the existing topology of the power distribution system. The fault location identification includes controllable voltage source converters VSCs to assist in the location of the fault and alters the voltage profile of the system in the presence of a fault condition. Utilizing controllable voltage source converters to locate the fault reduces miss trips of the circuit breakers that result when relying on the measured voltage when there is no electrical supply in a section of the distribution system as a result of a fault. The incorporation of controllable voltage source converters in the fault location identification system will serve to boost the voltage of the distribution system locate the fault and provide rapid restoration of the distribution system.

Power distribution system currently known in the art do not employ controllable voltage source converters and the voltage on a feeder associated with the distributed resource is expected to decrease as the distance between the distributed resource and the power distribution system increases. In accordance with the present invention if the distributed resources in the power distribution system are allowed to inject power the voltage profile of the system will change as shown in for the prior art system and for the fault location identification system of the present invention.

When a severe short circuit fault occurs in a distribution system there is an associated current rise and accompanying voltage sag near the faulted node which extends to every node that is downstream of the faulted node. The fault protection system of a power distribution system currently known in the art responds to the short circuit fault by isolating the assumed faulted nodes and all the downstream nodes of the actual faulted node. As shown in the graph of when a fault occurs in a prior art fault location identification system the voltage profile resulting from the fault will provides very limited information regarding the location of the fault. For example in the prior art system when a fault occurs at node in both the 1MVA and 12MVA cases the distributed resources at nodes through will be disconnected from the power distribution system by the fault protection system of the power distribution system. Similarly a fault at node will result in the distributed resources at nodes through being isolated from the rest of the system.

In contrast as shown in the graph of the voltage profile resulting from a fault in accordance with the fault location identification system of the present invention identifies the fault at either node or node . For example when a fault occurs at node it is seen that the voltage level drops at node but the voltage level at nodes through is maintained by the use of the controlled voltage source converters at each of the distributed resources associated with each of nodes through . Additionally when a fault occurs at node it is seen that the voltage level drops at node but the voltage level at nodes through is maintained by the use of the controlled voltage source converters at each of the distributed resources associated with each of nodes through . As such the voltage profile provided by the fault location identification system of the present invention results from the injection of current from all the distributed resource at each of the nodes in the system using the controllable voltage source converters.

The voltage profile of the power distribution system changes when a fault occurs in the system and the location of the observed voltage drop in the voltage profile is closely related to the location of the fault. Furthermore most distributed resources provide DC voltage. Therefore in a DC system controllable voltage source converters can modulate an AC signal on top of the DC signal and that modulated AC signal profile may be used to locate the fault similarly to the AC system.

In an exemplary embodiment as illustrated with reference to the fault location identification system of the present invention includes a power distribution system and a plurality of distributed resources coupled to the power distribution system . One or more of the plurality of distributed resources comprising a controllable voltage source converter configured to inject a current into the power distribution system . The power distribution system further includes a voltage profile generator configured for generating a voltage profile resulting from the injection of current by the one or more distributed resources and an analyzer configured for analyzing the voltage profile to identify the location of the fault in the power distribution system .

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention that as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

