---

title: Data transmission method and electronic device adapted to the method
abstract: A data transmission method is provided that can increase an amount of time that an electronic device has been in use and minimize the side effects. An electronic device adapted to the method is also provided. The data transmission method includes: recognizing a data transmission request of at least one first application; determining whether a first timer according to the data transmission request is within a second timer (a data detecting timer) where a data request of a second application required for network access is detected; and transmitting, when the first timer is within the second timer, request data related to the second application and user data of the first application by using at least part of the second timer and the first timer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09622172&OS=09622172&RS=09622172
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09622172
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150223
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 24 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0021461 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method for transmitting application related data according to periodic access events to a network and an electronic device adapted to the method.

In recent years a variety of electronic devices have been released on the market and increased in their application fields. Examples of the electronic device are mobile electronic devices smart phones cellular phones radios laptop computers wireless communication devices etc. In particular smart phones have been developed to provide a number of services and this has led to provide a basis to develop a variety of applications executable thereon. Unlike conventional electronic devices that have only executed the built in applications Smart phones can execute the built in applications and also allow users to install any applications that they need and to execute them.

Most applications for smart phones transmit receive data through a network and utilize data in various patterns according to their features. For example background applications such as emails weather calendar etc. periodically upload data via networks.

Uploading or downloading data refers to an operation for exchanging data in wireless mode between electronic devices and a server. During the process the electronic device consumes the battery power.

Applications installed to electronic devices utilize data transmission. Most of the applications perform a periodic data transmission through networks. Applications executing on electronic devices may repeat data transmissions at preset periods respectively regardless of whether the user utilizes data. This prevents electronic devices from operating in an idle status where it consumes battery power minimally thereby increasing the battery power consumption.

Therefore reducing an amount of time that the electronic device exits an idle state and operates in normal state may decrease battery power consumption. To this end electronic devices often disable the display or execute a standby state when there is no user operation and data transmission for any application. This conventional data transmission method may make a determination as to whether the user is actively using the electronic device.

The conventional data transmission method however brings about side effects. When the electronic device is configured such that data cannot be transmitted in a low power state where the display of the electronic device is disabled or the electronic device is in standby without considering the characteristics of executing applications it may cause user inconvenience.

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the present invention provides a data transmission method of an electronic device including recognizing a data transmission request of at least one first application determining whether a first timer according to the data transmission request is within a second timer a data detecting timer where a data request of a second application required for network access is detected and transmitting when the first timer is within the second timer request data related to the second application and user data of the first application by using at least part of the second timer and the first timer.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention the present invention provides an electronic device including a memory for storing applications an RF communication unit for transmission reception of data related to the applications and a processor for controlling the RF communication unit. The processor recognizes a data transmission request of at least one first application determining whether a first timer according to the data transmission request is within a second timer a data detecting timer where a data request of a second application required for network access is detected and transmitting when the first timer is within the second timer request data related to the second application and user data of the first application by using at least part of the second timer and the first timer.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will be easily appreciated to those skilled in the art that various modifications additions and substitutions are possible from the embodiment of the present disclosure and the scope of the invention should not be limited to the following embodiments. The embodiments of the present disclosure are provided such that those skilled in the art completely understand the invention. In the drawings the same or similar elements are denoted by the same reference numerals even though they are depicted in different drawings.

The expressions such as include and may include which may be used in the present disclosure denote the presence of the disclosed functions operations and constituent elements and do not limit one or more additional functions operations and constituent elements. In the present disclosure the terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of the addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

In the present disclosure the expression and or includes any and all combinations of the associated listed words. For example the expression A and or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

In the present disclosure expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second etc. and or the like may modify various elements. However such elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing an element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although for both of them the first user device and the second user device are user devices. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be also termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the case where according to which a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to other component it should be understood that the component is not limited to being directly connected or accessed to the other component but also another component may exist between the component and the other component. Meanwhile in the case where according to which a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to other component it should be understood that there is no component therebetween.

The terms used in the present disclosure are used to describe specific various embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and or scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. In addition unless otherwise defined all terms defined in generally used dictionaries may not be overly interpreted.

The electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including a heart rate measuring function. For example the electronic device corresponds to a combination of at least one of the followings a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera or a wearable device. Examples of the wearable device are a head mounted device HMD e.g. electronic eyeglasses electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an appcessory an electronic tattoo a smart watch etc.

The electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may be smart home appliances with a heart rate measuring function. Examples of the smart home appliances are a television TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaning device an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder an electronic album or the like.

The electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the following medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a scanning machine an ultrasonic scanning device etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device an electronic equipment for ships e.g. navigation equipment gyrocompass etc. avionics a security device a head unit for vehicles an industrial or home robot an automatic teller s machine ATM a point of sales POS system etc.

The electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the following furniture or a portion of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector various measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter and a wave meter etc. which are equipped with a heart rate measuring function respectively. The electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may also include a combination of the devices listed above. In addition the electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter electronic devices according the embodiments of the present disclosure are described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the description the term a user may be referred to as a person or a device that uses an electronic device e.g. an artificial intelligent electronic device.

The bus may be a communication circuit that connects the components to each other and transfers data e.g. control messages between the components.

The processor may receive instructions from the components e.g. the memory input output interface display communication interface application control module etc. via the bus decode them and perform corresponding operations or data processing according to the decoded instructions.

The memory may store instructions or data transferred from created in the processor or the other components e.g. the input output interface display communication interface application control module etc. . The memory may include programming modules e.g. a kernel middleware application programming interface API application module etc. Each of the programming modules may be software firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus processor memory etc. used to execute operations or functions of the programming modules e.g. the middleware API and application module . The kernel may also provide an interface that can access and control manage the components of the electronic device via the middleware API and application module .

The middleware may make it possible for the API or application module to perform data communication with the kernel . The middleware may also perform control operations e.g. scheduling load balancing for task requests transmitted from the application module by methods for example a method for assigning the order of priority to use the system resources e.g. the bus processor memory etc. of the electronic device to at least one of the applications of the application module .

The application programming interface API is an interface that allows the application module to control functions of the kernel or middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control character control video process etc.

In embodiments of the present disclosure the application module may include applications that are related to SMS MMS email calendar alarm health care e.g. an application for measuring the blood sugar level a workout application etc. environment information e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity temperature etc. and so on. The application module may be an application related to exchanging information between the electronic device and the external electronic devices e.g. an electronic device . The information exchange related application may include a notification relay application for transmitting specific information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing external electronic devices.

For example the notification relay application may include a function for transmitting notification information created by the other applications of the electronic device e.g. SMS MMS application email application health care application environment information application etc. to an external electronic device e.g. electronic device . In addition the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device e.g. electronic device and provide it to the user. The device management application can manage e.g. to install delete or update part of the functions of an external electronic device e.g. electronic device communicating with the electronic device e.g. turning on off the external electronic device turning on off part of the components of the external electronic device adjusting the brightness or the display resolution of the display of the external electronic device etc. applications operated in the external electronic device or services from the external electronic device e.g. call service or messaging service etc.

In embodiments of the present disclosure the application module may include applications designated according to attributes e.g. type of electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application module may include an application related to music playback. If the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application module may include an application related to health care. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the application module may include at least one of the following an application designated in the electronic device and applications transmitted from external electronic devices e.g. server electronic device etc. .

The input output interface may receive instructions or data from the user via an input output system e.g. a sensor keyboard or touch screen and transfers them to the processor memory communication interface or application control module through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data corresponding to a user s touch input to a touch screen to the processor . The input output interface may receive instructions or data from the processor memory communication interface or application control module through the bus and output them to an input output system e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed by the processor to the speaker.

The display may display information e.g. multimedia data text data etc. on the screen so that the user can view it.

The communication interface may communicate between the electronic device and an external system e.g. an electronic device or server . For example the communication interface may connect to a network in wireless or wired mode and communicate with the external system. Wireless communication may include at least one of the following Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC global positioning system GPS or cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS Wi Bro GSM etc. . Wired communication may include at least one of the following universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 plain old telephone service POTS etc.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network may include at least one of the following a computer network Internet Internet of things telephone network etc. The protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external system e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol may be supported by at least one of the following application module API middleware kernel and communication module .

The application processor AP may control a number of hardware or software components connected thereto by executing the operation system or applications process data including multimedia data and perform corresponding operations. The AP may be implemented with a system on chip SoC . In an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. communication interface performs communication for data transmission reception between the other electronic devices e.g. an electronic device server that are connected to the electronic device e.g. electronic device via the network. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a Bluetooth BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice call video call SMS or Internet service etc. via a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS Wi Bro GSM etc. . The cellular module may perform identification or authentication for electronic devices in a communication network by using their subscriber identification module e.g. SIM card . In an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform part of the functions of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform part of the functions for controlling multimedia.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . The cellular module may be implemented with for example a SoC. Although the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in is implemented in such a way that the cellular module e.g. communication processor the power management module the memory etc. are separated from the AP it can be modified in such a way that the AP includes at least part of those e.g. cellular module .

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module e.g. communication processor may load instructions or data transmitted from at least one of the following non volatile memory or other components on a volatile memory and then process them. The AP or the cellular module may also store data in a non volatile memory which is transmitted from created in at least one of the other components.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include processors for processing transmission reception of data respectively. Although the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in is implemented in such a way that the cellular module Wi Fi module BT module GPS module and NFC module are separated from each other it can be modified in such a way that part of those e.g. two or more are included in an integrated chip IC or an IC package. For example part of the processors corresponding to the cellular module Wi Fi module BT module GPS module and NFC module e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi may be implemented with a SoC.

The radio frequency RF module may transmit or receive data e.g. RF signals. The RF module may include a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA etc. The RF module may also include parts for transmitting receiving electromagnetic waves e.g. conductors wires etc. via free space during wireless communication. Although the embodiment of the present disclosure shown in is implemented in such a way that the cellular module Wi Fi module BT module GPS module and NFC module share the RF module it can be modified in such a way that at least one of those transmits or receives RF signals via a separate RF module.

The subscriber identification module SIM card may be a card with a subscriber identification module SIM . The SIM cards may be fitted into a slot of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. memory may include built in memory and or external memory . The built in memory may include at least one of the following volatile memory e.g. dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. non volatile memory e.g. one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory etc.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the built in memory may be a Sold State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive e.g. compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital micro SD mini secure digital mini SD extreme digital XD a memory stick etc. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device via various types of interface. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include storage devices or storage media such as hard drives.

The sensor module may measure physical quantity or sense operation states of the electronic device and convert the measured or sensed data to electrical signals. The sensor module may include at least one of the following gesture sensor A gyro sensor B atmospheric pressure sensor C magnetic sensor D acceleration sensor E grip sensor F proximity sensor G color sensor H e.g. red green blue RGB sensor biosensor I temperature humidity sensor J luminance sensor K and ultra violet UV sensor M.

The input system may include a touch panel a pen sensor i.e. a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input system . The touch panel may sense touches in at least one of the following capacitive sensing mode pressure sensing mode infrared sensing mode and ultrasonic sensing mode. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. When the touch panel is designed to operate in capacitive sensing mode it can sense mechanical physical touches or proximity of an object. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In that case the touch panel can provide tactile feedback to the user.

The pen sensor i.e. digital pen sensor may be implemented in the same or similar way as receiving a user s touch input or by using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include mechanical buttons optical keys or a key pad. The ultrasonic input system is a device that can sense sounds via a microphone of the electronic device by using an input tool for generating ultrasonic signals and can check the data. The ultrasonic input system can sense signals in wireless mode. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user s inputs from an external system e.g. a computer or server via the communication module .

The display e.g. display may include a panel a hologram unit or a projector . The panel may be implemented with a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLEDs or the like. The panel may be implemented in a flexible transparent or wearable form. The panel may form a single module with the touch panel . The hologram unit shows a three dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The projector may display images by projecting light on a screen. The screen may be placed for example inside or outside the electronic device . In an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram unit or the projector .

The interface may include a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface a D subminiature D sub etc. The interface may also be included in the communication interface shown in . The interface may also include a mobile high media card MHL interface a secure digital SD card a multi media card MMC interface an infrared data association IrDA standard interface or the like.

The audio module may make conversion between audios and electrical signals. At least part of the components in the audio module may be included in the input output interface shown in . The audio module may process audios output from input to for example a speaker a receiver earphones a microphone etc.

The camera module may take still images or moving images. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. on the front side and or the back side a lens an image signal processor ISP a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp or the like.

The power management module may manage electric power supplying to the electronic device . The power management module may include a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit IC a battery or fuel gauge etc.

The PMIC may be implemented in the form of IC chip or SoC. Charging electric power may be performed in wired or wireless mode. The charger IC may charge a battery preventing input over voltage or input over current from inputting to the battery from a charger. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may be implemented with a wired charging type and or a wireless charging type. Examples of the wireless charging type of charger IC are a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type an electromagnetic type etc. If the charger IC is implemented with a wireless charging type it may include an additional circuit for wireless charging e.g. a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier etc.

The battery gauge may measure the residual amount of battery the level of voltage the level of current temperature during the charge. The battery charges electric power and supplies it to the electronic device . The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator shows states of the electronic device or of the parts e.g. AP e.g. a booting state a message state a recharging state etc. The motor converts an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. Although it is not shown the electronic device may include a processor for supporting a mobile TV e.g. a graphic processing unit GPU . The mobile TV supporting processor may process media data that comply with standards of digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB media flow etc.

Each of the elements units of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be implemented with one or more components and be called different names according to types of electronic devices. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may include at least one element described above. The electronic device may be modified in such a way as to remove part of the elements or include new elements. In addition the electronic device according to the present disclosure may also be modified in such a way that parts of the elements are integrated into one entity that performs their original functions.

In the present disclosure the term network access refers to an operation where a data transmission requesting a signal from an application is transmitted to an embedded application or 3party application and the application transmits data related to and in response to the received request.

Referring to the system may include an application a data sensing library a modem a transmitter a data channel active status event and a battery health status information .

The application may be an application shown in . The application may be defined separately as a first application and a second application. First applications may refer to applications that utilize a user s explicit settings. Examples of the first application may be applications for Social Network Service such as browsers Facebook Twitter etc. games digital media broadcasting or DMB online chat service such as instant messaging one to one chatting group chatting etc. and notification service by messages such as SMS MMS etc. The first application may be a foreground application.

The second application may be applications that do not require a user s explicit settings. The second application may be periodically updated to reflect a current state. Examples of the second application may be an email widget with a Push based e mail client Post Office Protocol version 3 POP3 Internet Mail Access Protocol version 4 IMAP4 Exchange ActiveSync EAS etc. and widgets for providing information such as weather stock market price news etc. The second application may be a background application.

The application may include data sensing library . The data sensing library may store data request sensing intervals of applications of the application respectively. The data sensing library may be referenced to determine whether to perform periodic network access in a data channel active status mode or a battery health status mode. In the two modes a channel active status event battery health status information and a data detecting timer event not shown may be registered. In the two modes the application may be monitored by using the three events listed above.

The modem may monitor data channels and transmit a cell data channel signal or an idle status signal to the transmitter indicating whether the cell data channel is active or idle.

The transmitter may receive the cell data channel signal and idle status signal and transmit them to the application .

The cell data channel signal may be a signal indicative of data transmission between the CPU and input output device. In the embodiment of the present disclosure the cell data channel signal may thus indicate a state in which data can be transmitted or where the maximum power is consumed in the electronic device. The idle status signal may indicate a state in which the modem or the other components devices are idle not sending data or in a state where the minimum power is consumed in the electronic device. When the modem transmits a cell data channel signal to the application via the transmitter the application may receive the signal and perform data transmission. When the modem transmits an idle status signal to the application via the transmitter the application may receive the signal and refrain from performing data transmission.

The battery health status information is information to detect a battery health status. The battery health status information may be used to check the power level of battery i.e. the remaining power of battery. For example the battery health status information may detect whether the battery is being charged. As such when the battery health status information detects at least one of the cases it may be transmitted to the application . In addition when the system detects a location of the electronic device and ascertains that it is located in a place where the battery charging frequently occurs historically such as house office etc. battery health status information reflecting the same may be transmitted to the application . The system may be implemented in various layers such as Application Programming Interface API kernel etc.

Referring to the electronic device may include a controller a memory a timer a user interface and an RF communication unit .

The controller may include an application processor . The application processor may be the application processor shown in . The controller may control the entire operation of the electronic device and the signal flows among the components in the electronic device . The controller may also perform data processing. The controller may control the supply of electric power from the battery to the components. In particular the controller according to the present disclosure may control an application an event storage unit and a network access frame . The controller may receive status signals of a modem of the RF communication unit from the modem and may create the corresponding event. The event may be stored in the event storage unit . The controller may check status of the modem adjust periods of data transmission between applications accesses a network and perform data transmission.

The memory may be a memory shown in . The memory may store an operating system OS for the electronic device applications data such as text data audio data video data etc. The memory may include a program storing area and a data storing area.

The program storing area may store an operating system OS for booting the electronic device and controlling the components of the electronic device and a variety of applications . In particular the program storing area according to the present disclosure may include the event storage unit and the network access frame . The event storage unit refers to a storage area for registering events for detecting statuses of second applications. The event storage unit may register a data channel active event a battery health status information and a data detecting timer event not shown .

The network access frame manages network access periods of applications installed in the electronic device and detects a network request created when a network access period of an application has expired. When network access frame detects a network request it requests the application processor to perform transmission of data of the application corresponding to the detected request. Simultaneously the network access frame may search the applications for an application that can perform data transmission at the same time referring to an internal network access table and may request the application processor to perform data transmission of the searched application .

The timer may include a data detecting timer . The data detecting timer refers to an interval that is included in second applications and in which a data request of a first application or second application is detected. The data detecting timer may be divided into a former data detecting timer and a latter data detecting timer with respect to a time point that the network access period has expired. That is the former data detecting timer may be a certain period of time before a time point that the network access period of the application has expired. The latter data detecting timer may be a certain period of time after a time point that the network access period of the application has expired. The former data detecting timer and the latter data detecting timer are the same in terms of interval. For example when a data request of a foreground or background application is made the controller receives a cell data channel signal and detects the status of the modem . The controller receives a status signal of the modem and creates a data channel active status event . When the time point that the channel active event occurred is within the data detecting timer of the second application it means that the second application may perform data transmission at the time point that the first application accesses a network.

The RF communication unit may be a communication module shown in . The modem may monitor data channels and transmit a cell data channel signal or an idle status signal to the controller . The RF communication unit may perform a voice video call data communication etc. and also receive digital broadcasts under the control of the controller . The RF communication unit may perform transmission reception of data of the application according to the events of the event storage unit of the memory under the control of the controller . The RF communication unit includes a mobile communication module e.g. a 3 Generation 3G mobile communication module 3.5G 4G etc. a short range communication module e.g. Wi Fi module a digital broadcasting module e.g. a DMB module etc.

Referring to the term network access refers to a request that the application processor of the controller makes to perform data transmission from the application of the memory or from applications of external electronic devices.

The application processor of the controller may receive input signals from the user interface . The modem may receive an input signal of the user interface from the application processor i.e. a request signal related to the first application and transmit the transmission request the application . When recognizing the data request of the first application the application processor detects data detecting timers of second applications . After the detection the application processor searches for a second application with the detected data detecting timer within which the time point of recognition of the request is. The corresponding second application can be synchronized at the time point of recognition of the request. The application processor may transmit in order the request data related to the second application and the user data of the first application to an external electronic device via the RF communication unit .

With the convergence of digital devices there may be many digital devices and modifications thereof not listed in the present disclosure and it will be appreciated that they can also be included in the electronic device according to the present disclosure. For example the electronic device may further include a GPS module a camera module etc. It will also be appreciated that according to the purposes the electronic device may be implemented by omitting a particular component from the configuration or replacing it with other components.

In embodiments of the present disclosure the data transmission apparatus of the electronic device includes a memory for storing applications an RF communication unit for transmission reception of data related to the applications and a processor for controlling the RF communication unit. The processor recognizes a data transmission request of at least one first application determining whether a first timer according to the data transmission request is within a second timer a data detecting timer where a data request of a second application required for network access is detected and transmitting when the first timer is within the second timer request data related to the second application and user data of the first application by using at least part of the second timer and the first timer.

Referring to the flow chart may be a process where a first application and a second application access a network.

When the modem transmits a cell data channel signal to the controller via the transmitter according to a data request of the first application the controller receives the cell data channel signal and creates a data channel active status event .

The controller determines whether the time point at which the data channel active status event occurred i.e. the recognition time point is within the data detecting timer of the second application .

When the controller ascertains that the time point that the data channel active status event occurred is within the data detecting timer it may transmit the requested data transmission signals related to the second applications .

After that the controller establishes network access in the second applications with data detecting timers overlapping with the time point that the data channel active status event occurred and then transmits data in order .

On the contrary when the controller ascertains that the time point that the data channel active status event occurred isn t within the data detecting timer at operation it proceeds with operation .

The controller may register a network access period of a second application in the network access frame of the memory .

The controller may register battery health status information and a data channel active status event in the event storage unit of the memory .

The controller may receive a battery state from the battery health status information and determine whether the batter health status information is created .

When the controller ascertains that the batter health status information isn t created at operation it determines whether the network access period of the second application has expired in the event storage unit . When the controller ascertains that the network access period of the second application has not expired at operation it may repeat the determination as to whether the network access period of the second application has expired at operation .

When the controller ascertains that the network access period of the second application has expired at operation the application processor of the controller may receive a cell data channel signal of the modem . After receiving the cell data channel signal the application processor may create the data channel active status event and register it in the event storage unit .

The controller determines whether the time point at which the data channel active status event was created is within the data detecting timer of the second application .

When the controller ascertains that the time point at which the data channel active status event was created is within the data detecting timer at operation it may transmit a request signal for corresponding data to any second applications having data detecting timers overlapping at the time point at which the data channel active status event occurred .

After that the controller may establish network access in the second application synchronizing with the time point of creation of the data channel active status event and transmitting data . On the contrary when the controller ascertains that the batter health status information isn t created at operation it may proceed with operation .

The variable n denotes the number of second applications . T T . . . Tdenote network access periods indicating for example a periodic update time of second applications . T T . . . Tdenote data detecting timers . The data detecting timer is divided into a former data detecting timer and a latter data detecting timer . The former and latter data detecting timers may be the same in terms of interval. T T . . . Tan denote times of data service used for applications where T

Half of the data detecting timer i.e. the former data detecting timer or the latter data detecting timer is greater than a packet service time by an application .

The first application may receive a user s data request and operate according to the control of the controller . Data requests may be created independently.

A number of second applications may have a network access period T. In order to make easy network access considering periods of applications each application may have a former data detecting timer T i.e. a time interval in which a request of data is made before a time point that the network access period has expired or a latter data detecting timer T i.e. an time interval in which a request of data is made after a time point that the network access period has expired. A second application may have a network access period T. The second application may also have a former data detecting timer T and a latter data detecting timer T before and after the time point that the network access period Thas expired respectively. A second application may have an offset T 2. The second application may have a network access period Tafter the offset T 2. The second application may also have a former data detecting timer T and a latter data detecting timer T before and after the time point that the network access period Thas expired respectively. A second application may have an offset less than or equal to 1.5 T. The second application may have a network access period Tafter the offset. The second application may also have a former data detecting timer T and a latter data detecting timer T before and after the time point that the network access period Thas expired respectively.

As described above applications may have network access periods data detecting timers and offsets and perform network access as follows.

When a data request is made for the first application e.g. a browser the modem transmits a cell data channel signal to the controller . The controller receives the cell data channel signal may create a data channel active status event stored in the event storage unit of the memory . Network access may be performed at the time point of creation of the data channel active status event as follows.

The second application e.g. a weather widget may request data transmission according to a network access period Tstored in the network access frame of the memory . At the end of the network access period the former and latter data detecting timers T equal to each other in terms of interval may be created. As shown in since the time point of the data channel active status event is within the latter data detecting timer the second application may be synchronized with the time point and transmit corresponding requested data in order.

The second application may request data transmission according to a network access period T stored in the network access frame of the memory . At the end of one network access period the former and latter data detecting timers T equal to each other in terms of interval may be created. As shown in since Tis within the end of the network access period the second application may be synchronized with the time point and transmit corresponding requested data in order.

The second application may request data transmission according to a network access period T stored in the network access frame of the memory . At the end of one network access period the former and latter data detecting timers T equal to each other in terms of interval may be created. As shown in since the time point of the data channel active status event is within the former data detecting timer the second application may be synchronized with the time point and transmit corresponding requested data in order.

A data channel may be active at time points that the date requests of the first application are made i.e. time points that the channel active events occur. As shown in the data requests of the first application may be made within the data detecting timer of the second application . The data channel for data requests of the first application may be active separately from the second applications .

As shown in when the data requests of the first application are made within the latter data detecting timer like the second application the following operations may be created selectively. The application processor may store data to be transmitted at the end of the network access period of the second application in a data storing area of memory . After that the application processor may await the next period of the second application . The data of the second application stored in the memory may be transmitted when the data request of the first application is within the latter data detecting timer of the second application

After establishing network access the second applications may be assigned with new network access periods T T . . . Tor with previous or presently utilized network access periods.

The application processor of controller may determine whether the network access period of a second application registered in the network access frame has expired .

When the controller ascertains that the network access period of a second application hasn t expired at operation it may detect the battery health status information and the battery health status . When the controller ascertains that the battery is being charged it may access a network and transmit data in order . On the contrary when the controller ascertains that the battery is not being charged it may register the battery health status information in the event storage unit of the memory . Registering the battery health status information is performed to quickly determine the battery status later.

After registering the battery health status information the application processor of controller may determine whether to receive a cell data channel signal from the modem and create a data channel active status event . When the application processor ascertains that a data channel active status event isn t created at operation it may register the data channel active status event in the event storage unit . Registering the data channel active status event is performed to quickly determine the data channel active status later.

After registering the data channel active status event the application processor of controller may determine whether the application receives the registered data channel active status event . When the application processor ascertains that the application receives the registered data channel active status event at operation it may establish network access and transmit data in order . On the contrary when the application processor ascertains that the application doesn t receive the registered data channel active status event at operation it may return to operation .

Meanwhile when the application processor ascertains that the network access period of a second application has expired at operation it proceeds with operation . When the application processor ascertains that the battery power reaches a preset level at operation it proceeds with operation . When the application processor ascertains that a data channel active status event is created at operation it proceeds with operation .

Referring to graph experimental result graph shows the activation patterns of a data channel when second applications independently request data at a time point that the channel active event occurs without accessing a network Frequent activation of a data channel may show that the number of operations to monitor the data activation status by the modem increases and thus the battery power consumption also increases.

Referring to graph experimental result graph shows the activation patterns of a data channel when second applications accesses a network and performs data transmission while the modem is activated for data transmission. As shown in graph infrequent activation of a data channel means that the number of operations to monitor the data channel status by the modem decreases and thus the battery power consumption also decreases.

The timing diagrams of show network accesses by the second applications when a data request of the first application is not made Network access of second applications may be independently performed according to the following conditions.

Condition 1 all applications participating in network access have the same data detecting timer T for a data active state.

Condition 2 all applications participating in network access have the same network access period T for a data active state.

Condition 3 the offset of a range of network access period of applications participating in network access satisfies T 2

The controller controls the device to keep the conditions described above. In general a service time Tof data traffic for one time of application is based on the unit of second and network access period Tp is based on the unit of minute.

A number of second applications may have a network access period T. In order to facilitate network access in the midst of these disparate periods of applications each application may include former and latter data detecting timers T time intervals in which requests of data are made before and after a time point that the network access period has expired respectively. A second application may have a network access period T. The second application may also have a former data detecting timer T and a latter data detecting timer T before and after the time point that the network access period Thas expired respectively. A second application may have an offset T 2. The second application may have a network access period Tafter the offset T 2. The second application may also have a former data detecting timer T and a latter data detecting timer T before and after the time point that the network access period Thas expired respectively. A second application may have an offset less than or equal to 1.6 T. The second application may have a network access period Tafter the offset. The second application may also have a former data detecting timer T and a latter data detecting timer T before and after the time point that the network access period Thas expired respectively.

As described above applications may have network access periods data detecting timers and offsets and perform network access as follows when the data request of the first application isn t made.

In the embodiment of the present disclosure the second application serves as the first application shown in . A data request may be made at the time point that the network access period of the second application has expired or the data detecting timer has expired.

The application processor may detect the time point that the network access period Tof the second application has expired via the network access frame of the memory . The application processor may also detect the time point that the data detecting timer Tof the second application has expired via the timer .

A data request of the second application is made at the time point that the data detecting timer of the second application has expired. The modem transmits a cell data channel signal to the controller . The controller receives the cell data channel signal and creates a data channel active status event stored in the event storage unit . Network access may be performed at the time point of creation of the data channel active status event as follows.

The second application may request data transmission at a network access period T stored in the network access frame of the memory . At the end of one network access period the former and latter data detecting timers T equal to each other in terms of interval may be created. As shown in since the time point of the data channel active status event is within the latter data detecting timer the second application may be synchronized with the time point and transmit data in order.

The second application may request data transmission at a network access period T stored in the network access frame of the memory . At the end of one network access period the former and latter data detecting timers T equal to each other in terms of interval may be created. As shown in since the time point of creation of the data channel active status event is within the former data detecting timer the second application may be synchronized with the time point and transmit corresponding requested data in order.

As shown in when the data request of the second application is made within the latter data detecting timer like the second application the following operations may be created selectively. The application processor may store data to be transmitted at the end of the network access period of the second application in the memory of the second application . After that the application processor may wait for the next period of the second application . The data of the second application stored in the memory may be transmitted when the data request of the second application is within the latter data detecting timer of the second application

After accessing the network the second applications may be executed with new network access periods T T . . . Tor in the same previous network access periods.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure when the data request of the second application is made within the latter data detecting timer of the second application the following operations may be created selectively. Data to be transmitted at the end of the network access period of the second application is stored in the memory of the second application . After that the second application may process the following operations. The data of the second application stored in the memory may be transmitted when the data request of the second application is within the latter data detecting timer of the second application

After establishing network access the second applications may be processed with new network access periods T T . . . Tor with the previous network access periods.

Since the number of requests for data of the second applications can be minimized the electronic device according to the invention reduces the battery power consumption.

As an example a screen shows a UX system. The UX system may provide Refresh tab On OFF tab second application list network access state notification Add tab and Back tab .

 Refresh tab may be at the top right on the screen. Refresh tab rearranges a list of applications when an application to be synchronized is add to removed from the list by operating it.

 On OFF tab turns the UX system on off according to a user s operation. When the user operates On Off tab to turn it on the electronic device sets an optimal network access period for a registered second application and transmits data in order at the same network access time point.

The second application list may include second applications that are periodically updated. The second applications have network access state notification that the user can operate to perform network access respectively. The network access state notification shows whether corresponding second applications are accessed to a network so that the user can easily recognize the network access status. shows an email as a second application

 Add tab allows the user to add a second application that he she wants to be accessed a network at the same time point. Back tab allows the user to return to the previous screen.

When the electronic device user executes Power Save Mode on the UX screen as shown in the controller may set optimal network access periods for registered applications on the list and perform network access. The controller may automatically adaptively adjust network access periods. This can reduce the battery power consumption. The electronic device according to the present disclosure control network access periods of applications to optimal values automatically and respectively compared to conventional system where users manually set them and provide the UX as shown in on the screen thereby reducing the battery power consumption.

In embodiments of the present disclosure the data transmission method of an electronic device includes recognizing a data transmission request of at least one first application determining whether a first timer according to the data transmission request is within a second timer a data detecting timer where a data request of a second application required for network access is detected and transmitting when the first timer is within the second timer request data related to the second application and user data of the first application by using at least part of the second timer and the first timer.

As described above the data transmission method and the electronic device according to the embodiments of the present disclosure can allow the user to firmly transmit data of first applications within a preset time interval. During the data transmission the data transmission method and the electronic device can make network access with a second application and also transmit requested data related to the second application thereby reducing power consumption.

In the present disclosure the terminology module refers to a unit including hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. For example the terminology module is interchangeable with unit logic logical block component circuit etc. A module may be the least unit or a part of an integrated component. A module may be the least unit or a part thereof that can perform one or more functions. A module may be implemented in mechanical or electronic mode. For example modules according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented with at least one of the following an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip field programmable gate array FPGAs and a programmable logic device that can perform functions that are known or will be developed.

At least part of the method e.g. operations or system e.g. modules or functions according to the embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented with instructions as programming modules that are stored in computer readable storage media. One or more processors e.g. processor can execute instructions thereby performing the functions. An example of the computer readable storage media may be memory . At least part of the programming modules can be implemented executed by processor . At least part of the programming module may include modules programs routines sets of instructions or processes etc. in order to perform one or more functions.

Examples of computer readable media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM disks and Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions e.g. programming modules such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory etc. Examples of program instructions include machine code instructions created by assembly languages such as a compiler and code instructions created by a high level programming language executable in computers using an interpreter etc. The described hardware devices may be configured to act as one or more software modules in order to perform the operations and methods described above or vice versa.

Modules or programming modules according to the embodiments of the present disclosure may include one or more components remove part of them described above or include new components. The operations performed by modules programming modules or the other components according to the present disclosure may be executed in serial parallel repetitive or heuristic fashion. Part of the operations can be executed in any other order skipped or executed with additional operations.

As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein.

Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a processor or microprocessor constitute hardware in the claimed invention. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims constitute statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101.

Although example embodiments of the invention have been described in detail above it should be understood that many variations and modifications of the basic inventive concept herein described which may be apparent to those skilled in the art will still fall within the spirit and scope of the example embodiments of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

