---

title: Enabling location-based applications to work with imaginary locations
abstract: Technologies for game providers to place their game worlds into existing map databases and communicate the relevant locations to location-based applications are generally described. In some examples, this may be achieved by generating maps that use non-physical locations that are still within standard location data formats at a game service provider and providing the maps and/or map data to map server providers showing game worlds mapped to those coordinates. Alternatively, the game service provider may provide the map data to the map service provider and the map may be generated at the map service provider. The imaginary location maps may be identified by extreme or non-physical altitudes, for example. Game clients may be enabled to publish the location of their game persona on an imaginary map and/or their real persona on a real map and receive location-based services for either or both personas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486707&OS=09486707&RS=09486707
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09486707
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150528
---
This Application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 640 046 filed on Oct. 9 2012 and patented as U.S. 9 077 771 on Jul. 7 2015 which is the U.S. National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application Ser. No. PCT US12 31304 filed on Mar. 29 2012. The disclosures of the U.S. Patent and the PCT Application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Location based applications are put to many social and tagging uses. Many computing devices have application programming interface API level access that can allow a user to check in and post location links and content of interest or photos to various location based services. Many mobile operating systems also allow a program to advertise itself so that users can post to them from other content or programs. For example a summary feed reader on some smartphones can post any web page or article directly to a social networking application an online note taking application or other applications with just an API call.

Such APIs allow both location and content to be posted to services with location data being managed based on standards such as World Wide Web Consortium W3C standards compliant location data. A game can post content through such a channel simply by invoking the sharing API and providing extensible markup language XML content but so far game providers cannot provide meaningful location based data that would allow players to use familiar social networking applications and programs to spot nearby friends or show people where they are in the imaginary world of a game.

The present disclosure generally describes techniques for enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations. In some examples a method for providing a map service that enables location based applications to work with imaginary locations is described. An example method may include receiving map data including coordinate information determining the map data as belonging to an imaginary location based on the coordinate information generating a map based on the map data and providing the map for the imaginary location through the map service.

In other examples a map service provider enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations is described. The map service provider may include one or more servers configured to receive map data from a game provider including coordinate information determine the map data as belonging to an imaginary location based on the coordinate information generate a map based on the map data and provide the map for the imaginary location through a map service.

In further examples a method for enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations associated with a game is described. The method may include generating map data for an imaginary location including coordinate information indicating the map data as belonging to the imaginary location and providing the map data to a map service to generate a map for the imaginary location based on the map data.

In other examples a game provider service enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations associated with a game is described. The game provider service may include one or more servers configured to generate map data for an imaginary location including coordinate information indicate the map data as belonging to the imaginary location and provide the map data to a map service to generate a map for the imaginary location based on the map data.

In yet other examples a method for participating in an online game with location based applications enabled to work with imaginary locations associated with the game is described. The method may include joining the game using a game persona enabling publication of game persona location within an imaginary map of the game and receiving one or more location based services based on the game persona location on the imaginary game map.

In further examples a computing device executing a game client for participating in an online game with location based applications enabled to work with imaginary locations associated with the game is described. The computing device may include a memory configured to store instructions and a processor configured to execute the game client in conjunction with the instructions stored in the memory. The game client may be configured to join the game using a game persona enable publication of game persona location within an imaginary map of the game and receive one or more location based services based on the game persona location on the imaginary game map.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to methods apparatus systems devices and or computer program products related to enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations.

Briefly stated technologies are provided for game providers to place their game worlds into existing map databases and communicate the relevant locations to location based applications. This may be achieved by generating maps that use non physical locations that are still within standard location data formats at a game service provider and providing the maps and or map data to map server providers showing game worlds mapped to those coordinates. Alternatively the game service provider may provide the map data to the map service provider and the map may be generated at the map service provider. The imaginary location maps may be identified by imaginary or non real data such as by way of example extreme or non physical altitudes non real location data non real map coordinates etc. Game clients may be enabled to publish the location of their game persona on an imaginary map and or their real persona on a real map and receive location based services for either or both personas.

Computer games often create imaginary worlds in which players can move around. Multiple players interacting over the Internet need to be able to exchange information about their positions in these imaginary worlds. Manipulating this information has similar challenges to that encountered with real position data such as changing addresses into latitude and longitude. Example embodiments provide a way to leverage existing real location position services for imaginary game locations without interference between the two. Notably a client side implementation view a game provider view and a map service provider view are provided for generating and utilizing imaginary location maps within an infrastructure of real world map usage. For example the W3C standards provide guidelines and methods for delivering location data to applications. Location based and check in type applications use such data referenced against maps and geolocation databases to record user locations and to apply names and significance to those locations. Similar techniques may be employed for imaginary locations and game personas in those locations.

As depicted in the system includes a map service server a game service server a location based service server and clients . For brevity only one of each of the map service server the game service server and the location based service server are depicted in although it should be understood that the system may include more than one of each server. The servers and clients may be linked together via a cloud based service which may be implemented via a local wide area network LAN WAN a cellular network the Internet or any other suitable network.

The clients which may include one or more desktop computers laptops vehicle mounted computing devices smartphones tablets or any other suitable computing device may execute one or more location based applications. These location based applications may allow the clients or a user of one of the clients to determine their location obtain directions from one location to another location search for nearby points of interest such as businesses locations or friends people register their presence at a particular location checking in or otherwise perform some action related to their current location. To perform these actions the location based applications may communicate with the map service server and or the location based service server . The map service server provides map data such as maps and geocoded points of information e.g. roads points of interest labels etc. that have associated positioning data such as latitude longitude etc. according to some coordinate set. The location based service server which may provide services related to social networking retail marketing navigation games or any other suitable service may retrieve the map data from the map service server in response to a request from a location based application and perform some action based on the retrieved map data such as one of the actions described above.

In some embodiments the clients may execute an application that takes place in a virtual world e.g. a game associated with the game service server . In these embodiments the game service server may provide map data associated with the virtual world e.g. an imaginary or non physical world to the map service server and applications on the client may be able to provide location based services in the virtual world by having the location based service server retrieve and use the virtual world map data provided to the map service server . In some embodiments even if clients are stationary e.g. desktop computers a geolocation API may be provided so that the stationary clients can still use location based services at imaginary locations in a virtual world.

A number of different interaction scenarios may occur in the system . For example the game provider which may operate the game service server described above in relation to may generate and maintain a map including information about imaginary locations in a virtual world or game. To generate the map the game provider may use imaginary location map data including points of information about imaginary map locations features geocoded according to a non physical coordinate set. To allow access to the virtual world location information the game provider may provide the map to the map service provider which may operate the map service server described above in relation to . In another example scenario the map service provider may receive map data from the game provider via an API and generate and maintain the imaginary map as part of its map services that may include real world maps as well. In yet other examples map data may be received from other map sources such as literary sources cinematographic sources movie publicity historical reconstructions and similar ones through the API or another API associated with the map service provider .

There may be a variety of scenarios in implementing the integration of location based services with imaginary maps too. In some examples the game provider may provide metadata location names types features etc. along with map data to the map service provider which may be used by a location based service provider to provide location based services such as naming of features and structures on the imaginary map providing directions between points on the imaginary map locating resources of particular type connecting multiple game personas within vicinity of each other suggesting nearby places etc. Similarly the map service provider may also employ the metadata to provide additional services as well. In other examples the location based service provider may interact with the map service provider via an API and integrate its services into the map s provided by the map service provider using the metadata or integrate the map s into its services directly provided to the client . Thus the client may receive the location based services integrated into real world and imaginary maps provided from the map service provider or from maps integrated into services provided by the location based service provider e.g. an application an applet a service .

In some examples a map source e.g. map service provider game provider etc. may charge a fee to location based service providers game players map sources e.g. a movie promoter or others for adding metadata to the imaginary map such as place names advertisement and game related functionality associated with particular places etc. For example the map service provider the location based service provider and or the game provider may charge a fee to players for naming features or similar entities within the imaginary map enabling them to name a structure on the map for a subscription fee or similar arrangement.

In addition to the above provided examples location based services may include sending alerts enabling services creating geo fencing applications and or building personalized experiences for game players on the imaginary map. The location based service provider may be a social networking application a retail service application a marketing application a navigation application a game application or similar entity. Both APIs and may facilitate exchange of map data metadata associated with the map and input for services between the map service provider location based service providers and map sources respectively.

The client similar to the clients described above in may be associated with a real persona and a game virtual persona . For example the real persona may be the user of the client application and or device while the game virtual persona may be the virtual in game avatar of the real persona i.e. the client user in the game provided by game provider . The client may be used to access both real map data not shown provided by the map service provider and virtual map data. Similarly location based service provider may provide its services directed to the real persona dashed line or directed to the virtual persona dashed line .

For example the real persona i.e. the user may use the client to check in at a location in the real world e.g. a restaurant or retail establishment . In this case the client may communicate with the location based service provider which may use real map data from the map service provider to determine the location of the real persona in the real world a corresponding real map location e.g. the restaurant or retail establishment and then perform the check in function. Through the real persona the user may meet other players of the game or receive other real world related services. The user may also use the client to check in at an imaginary location in the virtual world of the game. In this case the client may also communicate with the location based service provider to perform the function. However the location based service provider may use the virtual map data the map and or the map the via the API instead of the real map data to identify the location of the virtual persona in the virtual world and to perform the check in function.

While a check in functionality is described above any other location based service or functionality may be employed with a system according to some embodiments. As another example the real persona may request travel directions between two locations in the real world from the location based service provider or the map service provider and the virtual persona may request travel directions between two locations in the virtual world from the same location based service provider or the map service provider . Furthermore real world like services retail real estate etc. may be provided in conjunction with virtual locations in the imaginary world.

In some examples the virtual persona may even use a real world location based service or the real persona may use a virtual world location based service. For example the virtual persona may check in to a real world location such as a restaurant. The location based service provider the map service provider and or the game provider may distinguish between the virtual persona and the real persona in transitioning between real and imaginary locations both in providing services e.g. checking in searching nearby locations friends both virtual and real and the like and publishing information to social networking applications as described above.

Real map locations may be geocoded such that they map directly upon existing map locations e.g. with coordinates located on the surface of Earth . On the other hand imaginary map locations may be geocoded to not interfere with real map locations while maintaining a similar data format for ease of interaction with real location positioning services. One way imaginary map locations may be geocoded to avoid interference with real map locations yet remain compatible with location positioning services may be to employ a different altitude. For example a location data format suitable for geocoding may include latitude longitude altitude optional accuracy latitude longitude and optionally altitude heading optional and speed optional . Real map locations tend to use all values of latitude and longitude but only a portion of altitude values e.g. up to 30 000 m or down to 500 m etc. . Therefore imaginary map locations may use some of the same latitude and longitude values as real map locations but have values of altitudes significantly different from real map locations. For example imaginary map locations may have altitude coordinates significantly higher than real map locations corresponding to locations high in the atmosphere or even in space. Imaginary map locations may also employ altitude coordinates significantly lower than real map locations corresponding to locations deep within the earth or even corresponding to impossible depths i.e. deeper than the center of the earth .

Given the earth is substantially round and the available surface grows in proportion to altitude potentially much larger but realistic surfaces may be rendered available for imaginary maps. Furthermore a system according to some example embodiments may assign different altitudes to distinct game service providers and or games such that each game service provider game has a distinct imaginary surface available for use in conjunction with map location based services. For example portions of latitude and longitude at a particular altitude or plane or latitude and longitude in certain altitude ranges or planes may be made available to game providers or other service providers in conjunction with online games.

Additional functionality that may be provided through an imaginary map according to some embodiments may include providing directions distance measurements connecting multiple users within vicinity of each other suggesting nearby places commercial or non commercial sending alerts enabling services creating geo fencing applications and building personalized experiences for game players. Furthermore styled maps elevation view street view and similar visualizations of mapped locations may be provided. Base map layers of the imaginary map may be customized to fit the game provider s and or location based service provider s needs. The base map colors may be modified to match one or more brands to draw attention to data or to remove unwanted map features. Location based service providers images may be added such as the inside of a building for use in street view. In providing directions to the virtual persona suitable routing options for the virtual persona may be created drag and drop directions may be implemented so that players can choose their own route directly on the imaginary map.

The game provider may provide the imaginary location map data along with metadata to a map service provider . Non physical coordinates corresponding to an imaginary location can also be supplied to a location based service social application directly from the game provider for fetching maps and metadata about the mapped imaginary world and forwarded to the map service provider . The map service provider may provide maps highlights directions etc. for the non physical locations to the location based service social application as if they were real world locations.

The location based services e.g. finding friends locations of interest notifications travel directions or any other suitable service may still be used transparently through existing location based applications. The location based service social application may cache neighboring tiles compute user distances for friend finding and perform other location based actions using existing code and routines originally intended for real world location based services. A location based service request may be initiated by the game provider and or by the location based service social application . As discussed previously the location based service social application may interact with the map service provider through one or more APIs and provide services on imaginary maps provided by the map service provider using metadata provided by the imaginary map source e.g. the game provider or receive map data and provide its services with integrated map information directly to game clients.

Depending on the desired configuration the processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. The processor may include one more levels of caching such as a cache memory a processor core and registers . The example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller may be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. The system memory may include an operating system one or more map service applications and program data . The map service applications may include a location module that is arranged to provide location based services for real or imaginary locations or any other processes methods and functions as described above. The program data may include coordinate data e.g. coordinates for physical and or non physical locations etc. map data e.g. points of interest roads labels or any other suitable data associated with a map of real or imaginary locations and similar data as discussed herein in conjunction with the figures. In some embodiments the map service application may be arranged to operate with the program data on the operating system in order to perform location based services for real or imaginary locations as described herein. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

The computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any desired devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be one or more removable storage devices one or more non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of the removable storage and the non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

The system memory the removable storage devices and the non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD solid state drives or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by the computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing device .

The computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. one or more output devices one or more peripheral interfaces and one or more communication devices to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Some of the example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . One or more example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports . The one or more other computing devices may include servers at a datacenter customer equipment and comparable devices.

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

The computing device may be implemented as a portion of a physical server virtual server a computing cloud or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. The computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations. Moreover the computing device may be implemented as a networked system or as part of a general purpose or specialized server.

Networks for a networked system including computing device may comprise any topology of servers clients switches routers modems Internet service providers and any appropriate communication media e.g. wired or wireless communications . A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic network topology. The networks may include a secure network such as an enterprise network e.g. a LAN WAN or WLAN an unsecure network such as a wireless open network e.g. IEEE 802.11 wireless networks or a world wide network e.g. the Internet . The networks may also comprise multiple distinct networks that are adapted to operate together. Such networks are configured to provide communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation these networks may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Furthermore the networks may be portions of the same network or separate networks.

Example embodiments may also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described herein. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in the present disclosure. Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some of the operations while other operations are performed by machines. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program. In other examples the human interaction can be automated such as by pre selected criteria that are machine automated.

Some examples processes may begin with block RECEIVE COORDINATE INFORMATION . At block coordinate information may be received for example by a location based service or social networking application e.g. the location based service server in or location based service social application in or by a map service e.g. the map service server in the map service in or the map service in .

Block may be followed by block DETERMINE LOCATION AS IMAGINARY FROM THE COORDINATE INFORMATION . This may be accomplished by determining whether the received coordinate information includes an imaginary location indicator e.g. the indicator in and or whether altitude data in the received coordinate information exceeds or falls below one or more predefined thresholds. The determination in block may be performed by for example the computing device in .

When the determination is made that the received coordinate information corresponds to an imaginary location block GENERATE RETRIEVE MAP FOR IMAGINARY LOCATION may be performed by a location based service or a map service via e.g. the computing device in . At block a map or map data for the imaginary location may be generated or retrieved. A location based service performing this operation may retrieve the map map data from a map service or generate the map based on data from the map service as described above in relation to and and a map service performing this operation may generate the map based on map data received from a game provider e.g. the game service server in or the game provider in .

Block may be followed by block PROVIDE MAP SERVICE PERSONA LOCATION INFORMATION AT IMAGINARY LOCATION which may be performed by a map service or a location based service such as the map service server or the location based service server in . In block a map service and or location based service may provide services associated with a real or virtual persona and the imaginary location such as providing a map of the imaginary surroundings of the persona enabling searching of the imaginary location map through geocoding providing multiple views of the imaginary location e.g. terrain view road view etc. publishing the location presence of the persona or any other suitable service.

Block may be followed by optional block . ENABLE LOCATION BASED SERVICES . This may be performed by a location based service such as the location based service server on using metadata associated with the map. Location based services that may be enabled include map searching providing purchase interface s for services related to one or more places at the imaginary location e.g. virtual stores selling real or virtual merchandise or services having the imaginary location appear in a map search etc. searching for nearby friends or points of interest or any other suitable service.

The operations included in the process of described above are for illustration purposes. Providing location based services associated with imaginary locations may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional operations. In some examples the operations may be performed in a different order. In some other examples various operations may be eliminated. In still other examples various operations may be divided into additional operations or combined together into fewer operations. Although illustrated as sequentially ordered operations in some implementations the various operations may be performed in a different order or in some cases various operations may be performed at substantially the same time.

In some implementations the signal bearing medium depicted in may encompass a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Versatile Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the computer program product may be conveyed to one or more modules of the processor by an RF signal bearing medium where the signal bearing medium is conveyed by the wireless communications medium e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming with the IEEE 802.11 standard .

In some examples the present disclosure describes a method for providing a map service that enables location based applications to work with imaginary locations. An example method may include receiving map data including coordinate information determining the map data as belonging to an imaginary location based on the coordinate information generating a map based on the map data and providing the map for the imaginary location through the map service.

According to some examples the method may also include enabling location based services to be provided for the imaginary location. The location based services may be provided by a social networking application a retail service application a marketing application a navigation application or a game application and the location based services may include providing directions connecting multiple game personas within vicinity of each other suggesting nearby places sending alerts enabling services creating geo fencing applications and or building personalized experiences for game players. The method may further include providing personal location information for one or more game persona at the imaginary location distinguishing between the game persona and real persona in transitioning between real locations and imaginary locations and or distinguishing between the game persona and real persona in publishing of game persona to a social networking application. A game provider or a map service provider may be enabled to charge a fee to one or more location based service providers for adding metadata to the map where the metadata includes a place name an advertisement and or a game related functionality associated with the imaginary location.

According to other examples the method may include determining the map data as belonging to the imaginary location based on an imaginary location indicator associated with the map data and or determining the map data as belonging to the imaginary location based on an altitude associated with the map data. The altitude associated with the map data may be higher than a predefined threshold or lower than another predefined threshold. The method may further include providing a purchase interface for one or more places at the imaginary location. The map for the imaginary location may include images geocoded points of information and or labels. The method may include providing an imaginary location plane for game providers where a distinct identifier is provided to each game provider for delivering imaginary location map data to a map service provider. According to some examples the method may further include enabling map search through geocoding and or providing multiple views of the imaginary location through the map service.

In other examples a map service provider enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations is described. The map service provider may include one or more servers configured to receive map data from a game provider including coordinate information determine the map data as belonging to an imaginary location based on the coordinate information generate a map based on the map data and provide the map for the imaginary location through a map service.

According to some examples the server may also be configured to enable location based services to be provided for the imaginary location. The location based services may be provided by a social networking application a retail service application a marketing application a navigation application or a game application and the location based services may include providing directions connecting multiple game personas within vicinity of each other suggesting nearby places sending alerts enabling services creating geo fencing applications and or building personalized experiences for game players. The server may be further configured to provide personal location information for one or more game persona at the imaginary location distinguish between the game persona and real persona in transitioning between real locations and imaginary locations and or distinguish between the game persona and real persona in publishing of game persona to a social networking application.

According to other examples the server may be configured to determine the map data as belonging to the imaginary location based on an imaginary location indicator associated with the map data and or determine the map data as belonging to the imaginary location based on an altitude associated with the map data. The altitude associated with the map data may be higher than a predefined threshold or lower than another predefined threshold. The server may further be configured to provide a purchase interface for one or more places at the imaginary location. The map for the imaginary location may include images geocoded points of information and or labels. The server may be configured to provide an imaginary location plane for game providers where a distinct identifier is provided to each game provider for delivering imaginary location map data to a map service provider. According to some examples the server may further be configured to enable map search through geocoding and or provide multiple views of the imaginary location through the map service.

In further examples a method for enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations associated with a game is described. The method may include generating map data for an imaginary location including coordinate information indicating the map data as belonging to the imaginary location and providing the map data to a map service to generate a map for the imaginary location based on the map data.

According to some examples the method may also include enabling location based services to be provided for the imaginary location. The location based services may be provided by a social networking application a retail service application a marketing application a navigation application or a game application and the location based services may include providing directions connecting multiple game personas within vicinity of each other suggesting nearby places sending alerts enabling services creating geo fencing applications and or building personalized experiences for game players. The method may further include enabling publication of personal location information for one or more game persona at the imaginary location and or distinguishing between the game persona and real persona in transitioning between real locations and imaginary locations. The method may further include enabling location based services to be provided for the imaginary location through an application programming interface API of the map service.

According to other examples the method may include indicating the map data as belonging to the imaginary location based on an imaginary location indicator associated with the map data and or based on an altitude associated with the map data. The altitude associated with the map data may be higher than a predefined threshold or lower than another predefined threshold. The method may further include providing a purchase interface for one or more places at the imaginary location providing images geocoded points of information and or labels for the imaginary location and or enabling publication of multiple views of the imaginary location through the map service.

In other examples a game provider service enabling location based applications to work with imaginary locations associated with a game is described. The game provider service may include one or more servers configured to generate map data for an imaginary location including coordinate information indicate the map data as belonging to the imaginary location and provide the map data to a map service to generate a map for the imaginary location based on the map data.

According to some examples the server is further configured to enable location based services to be provided for the imaginary location where the location based services include providing directions connecting multiple game personas within vicinity of each other suggesting nearby places sending alerts enabling services creating geo fencing applications and or building personalized experiences for game players. The location based services may be provided by a social networking application a retail service application a marketing application a navigation application and or a game application. The server may be further configured to enable publication of personal location information for one or more game personas at the imaginary location and or distinguishing between the game persona and real persona in transitioning between real locations and imaginary locations.

According to other examples the server may be further configured to indicate the map data as belonging to the imaginary location based on an imaginary location indicator associated with the map data and or an altitude associated with the map data. The altitude associated with the map data may be higher than a predefined threshold or lower than another predefined threshold. In some examples the server may be configured to provide a purchase interface for one or more places at the imaginary location and or provide images geocoded points of information and or labels for the imaginary location. According to some examples the server may be further configured to enable publication of multiple views of the imaginary location through the map service.

In yet other examples a method for participating in an online game with location based applications enabled to work with imaginary locations associated with the game is described. The method may include joining the game using a game persona enabling publication of game persona location within an imaginary map of the game and receiving one or more location based services based on the game persona location on the imaginary game map.

According to some examples the location based services may be provided by a social networking application a retail service application a marketing application a navigation application or a game application and the location based services may include providing directions connecting multiple game personas within vicinity of each other suggesting nearby places sending alerts enabling services creating geo fencing applications and or building personalized experiences for game players. The method may further include enabling publication of real persona location information along with the game persona location and or indicating the game persona location as an imaginary location based on an imaginary location indicator a higher than a predefined threshold altitude and or a lower than another predefined threshold altitude. The imaginary game map may include a purchase interface for one or more services associated with specific locations on the imaginary game map and or images geocoded points of information and or labels for the imaginary location. The game persona location may be published through a manual action and or an automatic game client application action.

In further examples a computing device executing a game client for participating in an online game with location based applications enabled to work with imaginary locations associated with the game is described. The computing device may include a memory configured to store instructions and a processor configured to execute the game client in conjunction with the instructions stored in the memory. The game client may be configured to join the game using a game persona enable publication of game persona location within an imaginary map of the game and receive one or more location based services based on the game persona location on the imaginary game map.

According to some examples the location based services may include a social networking application a retail service application a marketing application a navigation application and or a game application. The game client may be further configured to enable publication of real persona location information along with the game persona location and or indicate the game persona location as an imaginary location based on an imaginary location indicator a higher than a predefined threshold altitude and or a lower than another predefined threshold altitude. The imaginary game map may include a purchase interface for one or more services associated with specific locations on the imaginary game map and or images geocoded points of information and or labels for the imaginary location. The game persona location may be published through a manual action and or an automatic game client application action. In some examples the computing device is a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a vehicle mount computer a terminal a smart phone and or a gaming device.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods systems or components which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Versatile Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops.

A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

