---

title: Bead manipulation techniques
abstract: The invention provides a method of redistributing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet. The method may include conducting on a droplet operations surface one or more droplet operations using the droplet without removing the magnetically responsive beads from the region of the magnetic field. The droplet operations may in some cases be electrode-mediated. The droplet operations may redistribute and/or circulate the magnetically responsive beads within the droplet. In some cases, the droplet may include a sample droplet may include a target analyte. The redistributing of the magnetically responsive beads may cause target analyte to bind to the magnetically responsive beads. In some cases, the droplet may include unbound substances in a wash buffer. The redistributing of the magnetically responsive beads causes unbound substances to be freed from interstices of an aggregated set or subset of the magnetically responsive beads.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09358551&OS=09358551&RS=09358551
owner: ADVANCED LIQUID LOGIC, INC.
number: 09358551
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151030
---
This application is a continuation of claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 697 058 entitled Bead Manipulation Techniques filed on Apr. 27 2015 the application of which is a continuation of claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 491 231 entitled Bead Manipulation Techniques filed on Sep. 19 2014 the application of which is a continuation of claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 163 442 entitled Bead Manipulation Techniques filed on Jan. 24 2014 the application of which is a divisional of claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 985 409 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 637 317 issued Jan. 28 2014 entitled Bead Manipulation Techniques filed on Jan. 6 2011 which is a continuation in part of claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 639 531 now U.S. Pat. 8 613 889 issued Dec. 24 2013 entitled Droplet based washing filed on Dec. 15 2006 the application of which claims priority to and incorporates by reference related provisional U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 60 744 780 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Protein Crystallization filed on Apr. 13 2006 60 745 058 entitled Filler Fluids for Droplet Based Microfluidics filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 039 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Blood Chemistry filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 043 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based PCR filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 059 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Immunoassay filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 049 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Protein Crystallization filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 054 entitled Droplet Based Multi Well Plate filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 914 entitled Apparatus and Method for Manipulating Droplets with a Predetermined Number of Cells filed on Apr. 28 2006 60 745 950 entitled Apparatus and Methods of Sample Preparation for a Droplet Microactuator filed on Apr. 28 2006 60 746 797 entitled Portable Analyzer Using Droplet Based Microfluidics filed on May 9 2006 60 746 801 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Immuno PCR filed on May 9 2006 60 806 412 entitled Systems and Methods for Droplet Microactuator Operations filed on Jun. 30 200660 807104 60 806 400 entitled Droplet Microactuator Stamping Platform filed on Jun. 30 2006 and 60 807 104 entitled Method and Apparatus for Droplet Based Nucleic Acid Amplification filed on Jul. 12 2006.

In addition to the patent applications cited above U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 985 409 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 637 317 issued Jan. 28 2014 entitled Bead Manipulation Techniques filed on Jan. 6 2011 is a continuation of and incorporates by reference International Patent Application No. PCT US2009 050101 entitled Bead Manipulation Techniques International filing date of Jul. 9 2009 the application of which claims priority to and incorporates by reference related provisional U.S. Patent Applications 61 079 346 entitled Digital Microfluidic Spacio and Spectral Multiplexing of Assays filed on Jul. 9 2008 61 080 731 entitled Dielectrophoresis on a Droplet Actuator filed on Jul. 15 2008 61 084 637 entitled Digital Microfluidics Multi well Droplet Actuator Device and Methods filed on Jul. 30 2008 61 103 302 entitled Bead Incubation and Washing on a Droplet Actuator filed on Oct. 7 2008 61 108 997 entitled Adjustable Magnets and Magnetic Fields on a Droplet Actuator filed on Oct. 28 2008 61 122 791 entitled Bead Incubation and Washing on a Droplet Actuator filed on Dec. 16 2008 and 61 149 808 entitled Droplet Based Platform for Evaluating Enzymatic Activity filed on Feb. 4 2009.

This invention was made with government support under CA114993 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The foregoing statement applies only to aspects of this disclosure originating in U.S. Patent Application No. 61 103 302 entitled Bead Incubation and Washing on a Droplet Actuator filed on Oct. 7 2008 and U.S. Patent Application No. 61 122 791 Bead Incubation and Washing on a Droplet Actuator filed Dec. 16 2008.

The present invention generally relates to bead manipulation techniques. In particular the present invention is directed to a method of redistributing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet.

Droplet actuators are used to conduct a wide variety of droplet operations. A droplet actuator typically includes one or more substrates configured to form a surface or gap for conducting droplet operations. The one or more substrates include electrodes for conducting droplet operations. Liquids that are subjected to droplet operations are typically surrounded by an immiscible filler fluid. When the droplet actuator is configured to form a gap the gap between the substrates is typically filled or coated with the filler fluid. Droplet operations are controlled by electrodes associated with the one or more substrates. Droplets containing particles such as beads or cells may be subjected to various droplet operations on a droplet actuator. Droplets associated with particles may require various methods that may include structures to be manipulated by the droplet actuator.

Beads whether or not magnetically responsive have a tendency to settle and form aggregates due to one or more forces that may include gravity friction electric and magnetic forces. Aggregation may also occur due to surface interactions between beads or between substances bound to beads or interactions between beads and droplet actuator substrates. Regardless of the causes aggregation has a direct impact on the performance of assays. Immunoassays for example has critical time consuming stages like incubation and washing that may be influenced by the aggregation of beads.

During incubation where interaction of different antibodies and antigens result in binding events the available surface area on the beads for binding is reduced due to aggregation thereby impeding reaction kinetics and consequently increasing time to result and or reducing assay sensitivity. Protocols used for incubation including but not limited to duration of incubation may be influenced by the mixing efficiency within the droplets and also the reaction and binding kinetics all of which may be impacted by bead aggregation. When it comes to washing unwanted unbound substances that are trapped in the interstices of bead aggregates are difficult to separate remove or wash away thereby resulting in reduced assay sensitivity. Time to results is impacted if more number of washes are required.

Therefore there is a need in droplet actuators for resuspending and or circulating beads within a droplet to break up or loosen up aggregates when required to improve the overall assay performance without having to compromise on sensitivity and the overall time to result.

The invention provides a method of redistributing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet. The method may include providing a droplet including magnetically responsive beads. The droplet may be provided within a region of a magnetic field having sufficient strength to attract the magnetically responsive beads to an edge of the droplet or towards an edge of the droplet or otherwise regionalize or aggregate beads within the droplet. The method may also include conducting on a droplet operations surface one or more droplet operations using the droplet without removing the magnetically responsive beads from the region of the magnetic field. The droplet operations may in some cases be electrode mediated. The droplet operations may redistribute and or circulate the magnetically responsive beads within the droplet. In some cases the droplet may include a sample droplet may include a target analyte. The redistributing of the magnetically responsive beads may cause target analyte to bind to the magnetically responsive beads. In some cases the droplet may include unbound substances in a wash buffer. The redistributing of the magnetically responsive beads causes unbound substances to be freed from interstices of an aggregated set or subset of the magnetically responsive beads.

In certain embodiments the droplet operation may be selected to agitate contents of the droplet. The droplet operation may include transporting the droplet. The droplet operation may include elongating the droplet. In some cases elongating the droplet may include flowing the droplet onto a region of the droplet operations surface atop two or more activated droplet electrodes causing the droplet to take on an elongated configuration. The droplet operation may include merging the droplet with another droplet. The droplet operation may include splitting the droplet to yield two or more daughter droplets. In some cases two or more of the daughter droplets each may include a substantial subset of the magnetically responsive beads. In some cases the droplet operation may include merging two or more of the daughter droplets. In some cases further may include removing the droplet or a sub droplet thereof including at least a subset of the magnetically responsive beads from the magnetic field. In certain embodiments one or more droplet operations may be repeated in a series of two or more incubation cycles. The droplet operations surface may be in a droplet operations gap of a droplet actuator. The droplet operations surface may be coated by a liquid filler fluid. The droplet may be surrounded by a liquid filler fluid.

The invention also provides a method of incubating magnetically responsive beads in a droplet. The droplet including magnetically responsive beads may include one or more substances having affinity for one or more of the magnetically responsive beads. The method may include redistributing the magnetically responsive beads in the droplet in accordance with the method of any of the methods described herein.

Further the invention provides a method of washing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet. The droplet including magnetically responsive beads provided may also include one or more unbound substances selected for removal. The method may include merging the droplet including magnetically responsive beads with a wash droplet to yield a combined droplet. The method may include redistributing the magnetically responsive beads in the droplet in accordance with the method of any of the methods described herein. The method may include splitting the combined droplet to yield a droplet including substantially all of the magnetically responsive beads and a reduced concentration of the unbound substances relative to the starting droplet and a droplet substantially lacking magnetically responsive beads. The method may be repeated as necessary until a predetermined concentration or quantity of the unbound substances being removed is achieved.

In another method of washing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet the method may include merging the droplet with magnetically responsive beads with a wash droplet in the magnetic field to yield a combined droplet and to redistribute the magnetically responsive beads within the combined droplet and splitting the combined droplet to yield a droplet including substantially all of the magnetically responsive beads and a reduced concentration of the unbound substances relative to the starting droplet and a supernatant droplet substantially lacking magnetically responsive beads.

In another method of washing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet the method may include conducting one or more droplet operations using the droplet in the magnetic field to redistribute the magnetically responsive beads in the droplet in accordance with any of the other methods described herein and merging the droplet including the redistributed magnetically responsive beads with a wash droplet to yield a combined droplet. Further the method may include splitting the combined droplet to yield a first daughter droplet including substantially all of the magnetically responsive beads and a reduced concentration of the unbound substances relative to the starting droplet and a second daughter droplet substantially lacking magnetically responsive beads.

The invention provides a method of redistributing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet which method may include providing a droplet including magnetically responsive beads within a first region of a magnetic field having sufficient strength to attract the magnetically responsive beads to an edge of the droplet and using electrodes to transport droplet to a second region of a droplet operations surface in which the magnetic field may be sufficiently reduced to permit the magnetically responsive beads to circulate in the droplet during the conduct of one or more droplet operations. The method may also include conducting the one or more droplet operations to cause the magnetically responsive beads to circulate in the droplet. In some cases in the second region of the droplet operations surface the beads are substantially free from the influence of the magnetic field. In some embodiments at least a subset of the beads in the starting droplet are magnetically aggregated. The droplet may include a sample droplet including a target analyte. Circulation of the magnetically responsive beads may cause target analyte to bind to the magnetically responsive beads. In some cases the droplet may include unbound substances in a wash buffer. In some cases the circulation of the magnetically responsive beads causes disaggregation of an aggregated set or subset of the magnetically responsive beads freeing of unbound substances from interstices of the aggregated set or subset of the magnetically responsive beads. The one or more droplet operations may be selected to agitate contents of the droplet. The one or more droplet operations may include transporting the droplet. The one or more droplet operations may include elongating the droplet. In some cases elongating the droplet may include flowing the droplet onto a region of the droplet operations surface atop two or more activated droplet electrodes causing the droplet to take on an elongated configuration. The droplet operation may include merging the droplet with another droplet. The droplet operation may include splitting the droplet to yield two or more daughter droplets. In some cases two or more of the daughter droplets each may include a substantial subset of the magnetically responsive beads. The droplet operation may include merging two or more of these daughter droplets. One or more droplet operations may be repeated in a series of two or more incubation cycles. The droplet operations surface may be in a droplet operations gap of a droplet actuator. The droplet operations surface may be coated by a liquid filler fluid. The droplet may be surrounded by a liquid filler fluid.

In another method of incubating magnetically responsive beads in a droplet may include merging the droplet including magnetically responsive beads with a wash droplet to yield a combined droplet redistributing the magnetically responsive beads in the combined droplet in accordance with the method of any of the methods described herein and reintroducing the magnetically responsive beads into the first region of the magnetic field or into a region of another magnetic field having sufficient strength to attract the magnetically responsive beads to an edge of the droplet. In yet another method of washing magnetically responsive beads in a droplet the method may include redistributing the magnetically responsive beads in the droplet in accordance with the method of any of the methods described herein and reintroducing the magnetically responsive beads into the first region of the magnetic field or into a region of another magnetic field having sufficient strength to attract the magnetically responsive beads to an edge of the droplet. These methods may also include splitting the combined droplet to yield a droplet including substantially all of the magnetically responsive beads and a reduced concentration of the unbound substances relative to the starting droplet and a droplet substantially lacking magnetically responsive beads.

The invention also provides a method of incubating a droplet including providing a droplet including magnetically responsive beads within a region of a magnetic field in which the magnetically responsive beads are caused to become aggregated using electrodes to conduct on a droplet operations surface droplet operations using the droplet wherein the droplet operations may include one or more droplet operations transporting the droplet away from the magnetic field to a locus of the droplet operations surface in which the magnetically responsive beads are resuspended in the droplet and one or more droplet operations effecting an incubation cycle in the locus in which the magnetically responsive beads are resuspended in the droplet.

Further the invention provides a method of washing beads in a droplet including providing an elongated bead containing droplet may include one or more unbound substances providing an elongated wash droplet restraining movement of beads within the elongated bead containing droplet merging end to end the elongated bead containing droplet with the elongated bead containing droplet to yield a combined droplet and splitting the combined droplet to form a droplet including substantially all of the beads and a droplet substantially lacking in beads. In some cases restraining movement of beads within the elongated bead containing droplet may include restraining the beads in an end region of the elongated bead containing droplet. The method may also include conducting a resuspension cycle using the bead containing droplet prior to conducting the merging step. Restraining movement of beads may be accomplished by providing the elongated bead containing droplet in a magnetic field having a field strength which is sufficient to restrain movement of the beads. In some cases merging end to end the elongated bead containing droplet with the elongated bead containing droplet causes circulation within the combined droplet which redistributes the beads. In some cases the restraining merging and splitting steps are completed in less than about 30 seconds or less than about 15 seconds or less than about 10 seconds or less than about 5 seconds.

The invention provides another method of washing beads including providing the beads in a sample droplet may include a target substance on a droplet operations substrate within a magnetic field transporting the sample droplet away from the beads causing the droplet to split yielding a supernatant droplet and leaving behind a daughter droplet including substantially all of the magnetically responsive beads and subjecting the daughter droplet to a merge and split bead washing protocol. In some cases the supernatant droplet includes more than 50 of the unbound substances being removed. In some cases the supernatant droplet includes more than 75 of the unbound substances being removed.

The steps of any of the washing processes described herein may be repeated until the unbound substances selected for removal from the droplet are reduced by a predetermined amount. In some cases the predetermined amount will be at least about 99 or at least about 99.9 or at least about 99.99 or at least about 99.999 . The predetermined reduction may in some cases be achieved in 15 or fewer wash cycles or 10 or fewer wash cycles or 5 or fewer wash cycles. Further the predetermined reduction may be achieved while retaining substantially all of the beads. In some cases at least about 99.9 of the beads are retained or at least about 99.99 of the beads are retained or at least about 99.999 of the beads are retained.

The invention also provides a method of removing beads from a region of a magnetic field. The method may include providing a droplet including the beads in a region of the magnetic field in which the beads are aggregated by the magnetic field elongating the droplet transporting the droplet away from the region of the magnetic field in which the beads are aggregated out of the magnetic field or into a region of the magnetic field which may be sufficiently weak that the beads become disaggregated within the droplet. The droplet may be provided on a droplet operations surface of a droplet actuator. Elongating the droplet may include activating one or more electrodes to cause the droplet to take on an elongated conformation atop a droplet operations surface of a droplet actuator. In some cases the droplet operations surface may be situated in a droplet operations gap of the droplet actuator. In certain embodiments the transporting may include electrowetting mediated droplet transporting. In certain embodiments the transporting may include transporting the droplet away from the region of the magnetic field in a direction which follows an approximately lengthwise axis of the droplet.

The invention also provides a method of multiplexing detection in an assay. The method may include providing a set of two or more detection ready droplets. Each droplet may include two or more sets of assay products. Each set of assay products may include a unique optical marker such as a color based marker. The method may include spectrally analyzing each of the two or more droplets to quantify the assay products. In some cases no single droplet includes the same unique optical marker for two different analytes. In certain embodiments two different droplets may include the same unique optical marker for two different analytes one of such analytes in each of the droplets. The spectrally analyzing step may make use of a multi channel spectral analyzer. The multi channel spectral analyzer may include an excitation light source arranged to direct light in an excitation spectra into each of the droplets. The multi channel spectral analyzer may include a electromagnetic radiation sensing device arranged to sense electromagnetic radiation emitted from the droplets. In certain embodiments each droplet may include four or more sets of assay products or ten or more sets of assay products. In certain embodiments the method may include providing a set of five or more of the detection ready droplets or set of 25 or more of the detection ready droplets or a set of 50 or more of the detection ready droplets. In certain embodiments the unique optical marker may include a quantum dot marker. In some cases the quantum dot marker may include a core material coated with a high bandgap material. In some cases method may be executed on a fluorescing background substrate and the quantum dot markers fluoresce at an excitation wavelength which differs from the excitation wavelength of the fluorescing background substrate. In some cases assay products are bound to fluorescing beads and the quantum dot markers fluoresce at an excitation wavelength which differs from the excitation wavelength of the fluorescing beads. In some cases the method may be executed on a fluorescing background substrate and the quantum dot markers fluoresce at an emission wavelength which differs from the emission wavelength of the fluorescing background substrate. In some cases assay products are bound to fluorescing beads and the quantum dot markers fluoresce at an emission wavelength which differs from the emission wavelength of the fluorescing beads. In certain embodiments the assay products may include products of a droplet based assay such as a droplet based immunoassay. In certain embodiments the assay products may include products of a droplet based assay executed on a droplet actuator. In certain embodiments the assay products may include products of a droplet based assay and the detection ready droplet has a volume which may be less than about 1000 nL or less than about 500 nL. In certain embodiments detection ready droplets are substantially surrounded by a liquid filler fluid. In some cases the liquid filler fluid may include an oil filler fluid. In certain embodiments detection ready droplets are sandwiched between two substrates. The method may also include analyzing light from each droplet to identify and or quantify assay products. In some cases analyzing light from each droplet may include dispersing the light from each droplet along a dispersion axis. In some cases analyzing light from each droplet may include separately binning light from each droplet to provide a spectrum for each droplet. In some cases analyzing light from each droplet may include using filters to isolate signals from each droplet.

The invention provides a droplet actuator with a first substrate including a droplet operations surface electrodes arranged for conducting one or more droplet operations on the surface and one or more dielectrophoresis electrode configurations arranged for attracting and or trapping one or more particles in a droplet situated on the droplet operations surface. In some cases the droplet actuator may include a second substrate separated from the droplet operations surface to form a droplet operations gap. In some cases the one or more dielectrophoresis electrode configurations may include at least one dielectrophoresis electrode configuration mounted on the second substrate. The dielectrophoresis electrode configurations may include at least one quadripole electrode configuration. In some cases the quadripole electrode configuration may include four opposing triangular electrodes arranged to form a particle capture zone. In some cases the four opposing triangular electrodes are symmetrical. In some cases the four opposing triangular electrodes may include one or more asymmetrical electrodes. In some cases the quadripole electrode configuration may include four wires terminating at a particle capture zone. The dielectrophoresis electrode configurations may include at least one configuration may include two electrodes the two electrodes may include opposing fringed regions separated by a gap. The dielectrophoresis electrode configurations may include at least one configuration may include multiple triangular electrodes arranged to form a particle trap zone. The dielectrophoresis electrode configuration doubles as a droplet operations electrode. The dielectrophoresis electrode configuration may include a travelling wave configuration.

The invention also provides a method of dispensing a droplet including providing on a droplet operations surface a first droplet may include a first concentration of particles subject to dielectrophoretic forces localizing the particles in a region of the first droplet and conducting an electrowetting driven droplet dispensing operation yielding a second droplet may include a second concentration of the particles wherein the second concentration may be greater than the first concentration and a third droplet may include a third concentration may include a third concentration of the particles wherein the third concentration may be less than the first concentration.

 Activate with reference to one or more electrodes means effecting a change in the electrical state of the one or more electrodes which in the presence of a droplet results in a droplet operation.

 Bead with respect to beads on a droplet actuator means any bead or particle that is capable of interacting with a droplet on or in proximity with a droplet actuator. Beads may be any of a wide variety of shapes such as spherical generally spherical egg shaped disc shaped cubical and other three dimensional shapes. The bead may for example be capable of being transported in a droplet on a droplet actuator or otherwise configured with respect to a droplet actuator in a manner which permits a droplet on the droplet actuator to be brought into contact with the bead on the droplet actuator and or off the droplet actuator. Beads may be manufactured using a wide variety of materials including for example resins and polymers. The beads may be any suitable size including for example microbeads microparticles nanobeads and nanoparticles. In some cases beads are magnetically responsive in other cases beads are not significantly magnetically responsive. For magnetically responsive beads the magnetically responsive material may constitute substantially all of a bead or one component only of a bead. The remainder of the bead may include among other things polymeric material coatings and moieties which permit attachment of an assay reagent. Examples of suitable magnetically responsive beads include flow cytometry microbeads polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles functionalized polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles coated polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles silica microbeads fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres functionalized fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres coated fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres dyed microparticles and nanoparticles magnetic microparticles and nanoparticles superparamagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles e.g. DYNABEADS particles available from Invitrogen Corp. Carlsbad Calif. fluorescent microparticles and nanoparticles coated magnetic microparticles and nanoparticles ferromagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles coated ferromagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles and those described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050260686 entitled Multiplex flow assays preferably with magnetic particles as solid phase published on Nov. 24 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for its teaching concerning magnetically responsive materials and beads. Beads may be pre coupled with a biomolecule ligand . The ligand may for example be an antibody protein or antigen DNA RNA probe or any other molecule with an affinity for the desired target. Examples of droplet actuator techniques for immobilizing magnetically responsive beads and or non magnetically responsive beads and or conducting droplet operations protocols using beads are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 639 566 entitled Droplet Based Particle Sorting filed on Dec. 15 2006 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 039 183 entitled Multiplexing Bead Detection in a Single Droplet filed on Mar. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 047 789 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Droplet Operations Using Beads filed on Apr. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 086 183 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods for Manipulating Beads filed on Aug. 5 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 053545 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods Employing Magnetic Beads filed on Feb. 11 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058018 entitled Bead based Multiplexed Analytical Methods and Instrumentation filed on Mar. 24 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058047 Bead Sorting on a Droplet Actuator filed on Mar. 23 2008 and International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. The beads may include one or more populations of biological cells adhered thereto. In some cases the biological cells are a substantially pure population. In other cases the biological cells include different cell populations e.g. cell populations which interact with one another.

 Droplet means a volume of liquid on a droplet actuator that is at least partially bounded by filler fluid. For example a droplet may be completely surrounded by filler fluid or may be bounded by filler fluid and one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Droplets may for example be aqueous or non aqueous or may be mixtures or emulsions including aqueous and non aqueous components. Droplets may take a wide variety of shapes nonlimiting examples include generally disc shaped slug shaped truncated sphere ellipsoid spherical partially compressed sphere hemispherical ovoid cylindrical and various shapes formed during droplet operations such as merging or splitting or formed as a result of contact of such shapes with one or more surfaces of a droplet actuator. For examples of droplet fluids that may be subjected to droplet operations using the approach of the invention see International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. In various embodiments a droplet may include a biological sample such as whole blood lymphatic liquid serum plasma sweat tear saliva sputum cerebrospinal liquid amniotic liquid seminal liquid vaginal excretion serous liquid synovial liquid pericardial liquid peritoneal liquid pleural liquid transudates exudates cystic liquid bile urine gastric liquid intestinal liquid fecal samples liquids including single or multiple cells liquids including organelles fluidized tissues fluidized organisms liquids including multi celled organisms biological swabs and biological washes. Moreover a droplet may include a reagent such as water deionized water saline solutions acidic solutions basic solutions detergent solutions and or buffers. Other examples of droplet contents include reagents such as a reagent for a biochemical protocol such as a nucleic acid amplification protocol an affinity based assay protocol an enzymatic assay protocol a sequencing protocol and or a protocol for analyses of biological fluids.

 Droplet Actuator means a device for manipulating droplets. For examples of droplet actuators see U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 entitled Apparatus for Manipulating Droplets by Electrowetting Based Techniques issued on Jun. 28 2005 to Pamula et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 343 284 entitled Apparatuses and Methods for Manipulating Droplets on a Printed Circuit Board filed on filed on Jan. 30 2006 U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 566 entitled Electrostatic Actuators for Microfluidics and Methods for Using Same issued on Aug. 10 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 565 727 entitled Actuators for Microfluidics Without Moving Parts issued on Jan. 24 2000 both to Shenderov et al. Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 and Roux et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20050179746 entitled Device for Controlling the Displacement of a Drop Between two or Several Solid Substrates published on Aug. 18 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Certain droplet actuators will include a substrate droplet operations electrodes associated with the substrate one or more dielectric and or hydrophobic layers atop the substrate and or electrodes forming a droplet operations surface and optionally a top substrate separated from the droplet operations surface by a gap. One or more reference electrodes may be provided on the top and or bottom substrates and or in the gap. In various embodiments the manipulation of droplets by a droplet actuator may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated or Coulombic force mediated. Examples of other methods of controlling liquid flow that may be used in the droplet actuators of the invention include devices that induce hydrodynamic fluidic pressure such as those that operate on the basis of mechanical principles e.g. external syringe pumps pneumatic membrane pumps vibrating membrane pumps vacuum devices centrifugal forces piezoelectric ultrasonic pumps and acoustic forces electrical or magnetic principles e.g. electroosmotic flow electrokinetic pumps ferrofluidic plugs electrohydrodynamic pumps attraction or repulsion using magnetic forces and magnetohydrodynamic pumps thermodynamic principles e.g. gas bubble generation phase change induced volume expansion other kinds of surface wetting principles e.g. electrowetting and optoelectrowetting as well as chemically thermally structurally and radioactively induced surface tension gradients gravity surface tension e.g. capillary action electrostatic forces e.g. electroosmotic flow centrifugal flow substrate disposed on a compact disc and rotated magnetic forces e.g. oscillating ions causes flow magnetohydrodynamic forces and vacuum or pressure differential. In certain embodiments combinations of two or more of the foregoing techniques may be employed in droplet actuators of the invention.

 Droplet operation means any manipulation of a droplet on a droplet actuator. A droplet operation may for example include loading a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator other droplet operations described herein and or any combination of the foregoing. The terms merge merging combine combining and the like are used to describe the creation of one droplet from two or more droplets. It should be understood that when such a term is used in reference to two or more droplets any combination of droplet operations that are sufficient to result in the combination of the two or more droplets into one droplet may be used. For example merging droplet A with droplet B can be achieved by transporting droplet A into contact with a stationary droplet B transporting droplet B into contact with a stationary droplet A or transporting droplets A and B into contact with each other. The terms splitting separating and dividing are not intended to imply any particular outcome with respect to volume of the resulting droplets i.e. the volume of the resulting droplets can be the same or different or number of resulting droplets the number of resulting droplets may be 2 3 4 5 or more . The term mixing refers to droplet operations which result in more homogenous distribution of one or more components within a droplet. Examples of loading droplet operations include microdialysis loading pressure assisted loading robotic loading passive loading and pipette loading. Droplet operations may be electrode mediated. In some cases droplet operations are further facilitated by the use of hydrophilic and or hydrophobic regions on surfaces and or by physical obstacles.

 Filler fluid means a liquid associated with a droplet operations substrate of a droplet actuator which liquid is sufficiently immiscible with a droplet phase to render the droplet phase subject to electrode mediated droplet operations. The filler fluid may for example be a low viscosity oil such as silicone oil. Other examples of filler fluids are provided in International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 072604 entitled Use of additives for enhancing droplet actuation filed on Aug. 8 2008 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080283414 entitled Electrowetting Devices filed on May 17 2007 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. The filler fluid may fill the entire gap of the droplet actuator or may coat one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Filler fluid may be conductive or non conductive. Filler fluid may also be a wax like material that can be melted at elevated temperatures to fill the entire chip.

 Immobilize with respect to magnetically responsive beads means that the beads are substantially restrained in position in a droplet or in filler fluid on a droplet actuator. For example in one embodiment immobilized beads are sufficiently restrained in position to permit execution of a splitting operation on a droplet yielding one droplet with substantially all of the beads and one droplet substantially lacking in the beads.

 Magnetically responsive means responsive to a magnetic field. Magnetically responsive beads include or are composed of magnetically responsive materials such as for example DYNABEADS MYONE beads. Examples of magnetically responsive materials include paramagnetic materials ferromagnetic materials ferrimagnetic materials and metamagnetic materials. Examples of suitable paramagnetic materials include iron nickel and cobalt as well as metal oxides such as FeO BaFeO CoO NiO MnO CrO and CoMnP. The magnetic field may be produced by any magnetic field generating device which is suitable for causing the intended effect. Examples of magnetic field generating devices include permanent magnets and electromagnets. The product of the field magnitude and the gradient generate the force on magnetically responsive beads. In configuring systems of the invention the field magnitude or gradient may be altered as needed to achieve a desired result. In some cases a combination of electromagnet plus rare earth magnet may be used to manipulate magnetically responsive beads.

 Washing with respect to washing a bead means reducing the amount and or concentration of one or more substances in contact with the magnetically responsive bead or exposed to the magnetically responsive bead from a droplet in contact with the magnetically responsive bead. The reduction in the amount and or concentration of the substance may be partial substantially complete or even complete. The substance may be any of a wide variety of substances examples include target substances for further analysis and unwanted substances such as components of a sample contaminants and or excess reagent. In some embodiments a washing operation begins with a starting droplet in contact with a magnetically responsive bead where the droplet includes an initial amount and initial concentration of a substance. The washing operation may proceed using a variety of droplet operations. The washing operation may yield a droplet including the magnetically responsive bead where the droplet has a total amount and or concentration of the substance which is less than the initial amount and or concentration of the substance. Examples of suitable washing techniques are described in Pamula et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 439 014 entitled Droplet Based Surface Modification and Washing granted on Oct. 21 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The unbound substances being removed from the liquid surrounding the beads

The terms top bottom over under and on are used throughout the description with reference to the relative positions of components of the droplet actuator such as relative positions of top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator. It will be appreciated that the droplet actuator is functional regardless of its orientation in space.

When a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

When a droplet is described as being on or loaded on a droplet actuator it should be understood that the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates using the droplet actuator to conduct one or more droplet operations on the droplet the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates sensing of a property of or a signal from the droplet and or the droplet has been subjected to a droplet operation on the droplet actuator.

The invention provides devices and methods for resuspending or circulating beads in a bead containing droplet on a droplet actuator. During an incubation or washing protocol for example a bead containing droplet may be subjected to one or more droplet operations to resuspend or circulate beads within the droplet. These droplet operations may for example be mediated by electrowetting or other electric field mediated phenomena. Suitable droplet operations may be selected to improve reaction kinetics such as by agitating redistributing and or circulating droplet contents and or controlling droplet temperature. Redistribution or circulation of beads within a droplet may increase binding of a target analyte to the beads and or free up unbound substances from within magnetically aggregated beads.

Magnetically responsive beads have a tendency to settle and form aggregates due to gravity and or exposure to magnetic forces. Non magnetically responsive beads may also aggregate due to surface interactions between beads or between substances bound to beads. Aggregation reduces the available surface area for binding and slows reaction kinetics increasing time to result and or reducing assay sensitivity. Interstices in magnetically responsive bead aggregates can also hold unbound substances. These trapped substances may be difficult or impossible to separate from the beads during washing processes reducing sensitivity of assay results. The invention provides techniques for circulating or mixing beads within a droplet to overcome these issues. The invention also provides incubation protocols that make use of these recirculation techniques for improving binding of molecules to the magnetically responsive beads. Moreover the invention provides washing protocols that make use of these recirculation techniques for removing unbound molecules from the magnetically responsive beads.

As observed above beads in a droplet on a droplet actuator are subject to bead aggregation issues. These bead containing droplets may be provided on a droplet operations surface of a droplet actuator. The droplet operations surface may in some cases be provided within a droplet operations gap of a droplet actuator. The droplet may be partially or substantially completely surrounded by a filler fluid. The droplet may be provided in a reservoir associated with a droplet actuator. The reservoir may be in fluid communication with a liquid path configured for transporting liquid from the reservoir onto a droplet operations surface of a droplet actuator. Here again the droplet operations surface may in some cases be provided within a droplet operations gap of a droplet actuator.

The bead containing droplet may be subjected to bead resuspension protocols on the droplet actuator. During an incubation or washing protocol for example the bead containing droplet may be subjected to one or more droplet operations to resuspend or circulate beads within the droplet. These droplet operations may for example be mediated by electrowetting or other electric field mediated phenomena. Suitable droplet operations may be selected to improve reaction kinetics such as by agitating redistributing and or circulating droplet contents and or controlling droplet temperature. Redistribution or circulation of beads within a droplet may increase binding of a target analyte to the beads and or free up unbound substances from within magnetically aggregated beads.

Droplet transport is an example of a droplet operation selected to redistribute or circulate beads within a droplet. During transport from electrode to electrode contents of the bead containing are circulated and redistributed within the droplet. Other examples of droplet operations suitable for enhancing incubation or washing include splitting and merging droplet operations. Any combination of droplet operations may be used. Multiple droplet operations may be combined to provide a complete incubation cycle e.g. transport split merge transport split transport merge transport . Incubation cycles may be repeated any number of times to achieve a desired result such as a desired degree of mixing of beads with contents of the droplet.

The incubated droplet may include any suitable components that require incubation. For example the droplet may include reagents and or sample for conducting an immunoassay. A droplet including beads having a binding affinity for an analyte may be subjected to one or more incubation cycles to improve binding of the analyte to the beads. Beads bound to an analyte may be subjected to one or more incubation cycles in a droplet with secondary antibody to improve binding of the secondary antibody to the target. In another case the magnetic beads already containing the sample of interest can be incubated with an elution buffer to elute the sample bound to the beads and transport it to further processing. In that case the beads would be transported to waste reservoir after eluting off the sample. It should also be noted that incubation cycles may be used to enhance the kinetics of chemical reactions even in droplets where beads are not present. As another example a droplet including cells and reagents for supplying one or more metabolic requirements of the cells may be subjected to one or more incubation cycles to improve supply of the metabolic reagent to the cells. In some cases the cells may be bound to beads. In another embodiment the incubation can be between a chemiluminescence or fluorescence producing reagent with an enzyme on an immuno complex bound to magnetic beads. Effective resuspension of magnetic beads by incubating the enzyme labeled magnetic beads would improve the sensitivity of the assay.

In droplet including beads is positioned adjacent to and overlapping droplet operations electrodes M. Magnetically responsive beads are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet causing a concentration of beads to form at the edge of droplet that is closest to magnet . In droplet is transported to and elongated along several electrodes M using droplet operations mediated at least in part by electrodes M. In this manner droplet is caused to conform to an elongated geometry. The transformation of droplet from a rounded configuration to an elongated configuration produces a flow of liquid within droplet that redistributes beads in droplet allowing interaction of the beads with several parts of the droplet more effectively. In elongated droplet is split using droplet operations to form daughter droplets A B. Two daughter droplets A B are illustrated here but any number of daughter droplets may be formed within the scope of the invention. Splitting of droplet redistributes beads within the daughter droplets A B. In daughter droplets A B are merged using droplet operations mediated by electrodes M to reform droplet . This merging is accomplished while beads are being attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . The transporting elongation splitting and merging operations of are one example of an incubation cycle. Multiple incubation cycles may be performed to provide for resuspension and or redistribution i.e. mixing of beads of droplet e.g. during incubation and or washing of droplet . In droplet is transported away from magnet using droplet operations to adjacent electrodes . Droplet may for example be transported a distance from magnet sufficient to reduce or substantially eliminate the attractive force of the magnetic field of magnet on magnetically responsive beads . For example the magnetic force may be sufficiently reduced to permit beads to be resuspended in droplet . Also the droplet can be transported at higher switching speeds allowing very little time for the magnetic beads to get attracted. Higher droplet switching speeds would enable better binding efficiency of the analyte onto the magnetic beads thereby requiring lesser incubation time. In this case the magnet is right underneath the droplet containing magnetic beads there is a higher chance of aggregation of beads since the magnetic beads are always under the effect of magnetic field gradient at every step of incubation. This effect would be more pronounced in cases of longer incubation times or multiple steps of incubation resulting in clumps of beads. However incubation of the beads right over the magnet would be useful when the real estate available is very little and the sensitivity requirements are not as stringent wherein the typical dynamic range of the analyte concentration is 1 ng mL to 100 ng mL and the incubation times are in the range of 30 seconds to 300 seconds.

In droplet with beads is positioned adjacent to droplet operations electrodes M such that beads are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . A concentration of magnetically responsive beads is formed at an edge of droplet that is closest to magnet . In droplet is transported using electrode mediated droplet operations away from magnet and repositioned at a distance sufficient to permit resuspension of beads in droplet . show droplet elongation i.e. formation of slug shaped geometry droplet splitting and droplet merging respectively. The incubation cycle cause spatial reorientation of the liquid of droplet and redistribution of beads within droplet .

In certain point of care applications where the size of the droplet actuator and thereby the real estate on the droplet actuator is restricted incubation might need to be performed on the magnet which will take about 10 minutes if 100 antigen has to be captured leaving only 5 minutes for all other operations within the time to result budget of 15 minutes. Therefore in such a case incubation may be performed only for 5 minutes but still capturing 80 of the antigen. On the other hand if real estate is not an issue and if a few more electrodes off magnet could be utilized for incubation then 100 of the antigen can be captured within 4 minutes. The same effect of off magnet incubation could also be obtained by mechanically moving the magnet away from the droplet actuator.

FIG. A shows the result of work comparing the signal obtained by using different switching speeds while incubating the droplet using the sequence described in . Results were measured in chemiluminescence. Immunoassays were performed on a 600 nL droplet that contained 10 pg mL of Tumor necrosis factor TnF . The sequence of droplet operations in the incubation protocol involved shuttling the droplet along a linear path of electrodes with no split merge operation as shown in . Effect of switching speed on the signal obtained was studied by performing the immunoassay using different switching speeds at the same incubation time. Since the total incubation time was fixed the droplets had to be oscillated for a larger number of cycles at higher switching speeds in order to maintain the same total incubation time.

The invention provides washing protocols for removing unbound molecules from the magnetically responsive beads. The input to a washing protocol is a bead containing droplet including unbound substances and the output is typically a bead containing droplet in which the concentration and or quantity of these unbound substances is reduced relative to the concentration and or quantity present in the input droplet. Washing is thus a critical step in the implementation of many assay protocols. In some embodiments washing is performed using a merge and split wash protocol. A merge and split wash protocol generally involves merging a bead containing droplet with a wash droplet and then splitting off a supernatant droplet which carries away at least a portion of the unbound substances. In some cases an initial droplet is subjected to one or more splitting steps prior to the initial wash droplet merge step. Droplet splitting steps are typically performed in the presence of a magnet so that the split yields one or more bead containing droplets in which the concentration and or quantity of unbound substances is reduced relative to the concentration and or quantity present in prior to the split and one or more droplets without a substantial amount of beads wherein the concentration and or quantity of unbound substances is increased relative to the concentration and or quantity present prior to the split. Bead retention is important particularly when the process involves multiple wash cycles each cycle may potentially reduce the number of retained beads. The washing steps may be repeated as needed until the unbound substances are sufficiently depleted from the liquid surrounding the beads. In some cases the unbound substances are substantially or completely depleted from the liquid surrounding the beads.

Electrode magnet arrangement may include an arrangement e.g. a path or array of droplet operations electrodes . Droplets and are positioned in a droplet operations gap not shown or on a droplet operations surface where droplets and are subject to droplet operations mediated by electrodes . Droplet includes magnetically responsive beads . Magnet is provided in proximity to electrodes M. Electrodes M are a subset of electrodes . Magnet is positioned relative to electrodes M such that when droplet is atop one or more of electrodes M magnetically responsive beads within droplet are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . Alternatively magnet is positioned relative to electrodes M such that when droplet is subject to droplet operations mediated by electrodes M magnetically responsive beads within droplet are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . The attraction of magnetically responsive beads may cause beads to move within droplet in the direction of magnet . Magnetically responsive beads may move towards an edge of droplet which is proximate to magnet . The parameters of the configuration may be adjusted such that beads are attracted towards an edge of droplet without exiting droplet . In this and other examples described herein which make use of magnetically responsive beads and magnets the technique may be optimized by adjusting properties such as interfacial tension of droplets and properties and concentration of magnetically responsive beads and the pull force of exerted by magnet on magnetically responsive beads . The size strength orientation relative to beads and number of magnets may also be varied for the purpose of optimization. The washing technique shown in illustrates the use of droplet operations to redistribute magnetically responsive beads within droplet during the droplet washing operation. One or more of the droplet operations may be conducted while the magnetically responsive beads are being influenced or attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . Droplet may be subjected to droplet operations mediated by electrodes M while magnetically responsive beads within droplet are being attracted to magnet . For example droplet may be transported along electrodes M by using electrodes M to create an electrowetting effect on a droplet operations surface.

Droplet may include a wash buffer. Droplet may include magnetically responsive beads . Bead droplet and wash buffer droplet may for example be 2 droplets meaning that their footprint is approximately 2 times the area of one droplet operations electrode . Bead droplet and wash buffer droplet may be configured as slug shaped droplets i.e. elongated droplets by performing droplet operations on the 2 droplets using two underlying active droplet operations electrodes . Because the excess droplet volume is now spread over a second active droplet operations electrode the droplets are elongated and conform to the shape of two electrodes.

The wash cycle may yield a bead containing droplet having a decreased quantity or substantially decreased quantity of an unwanted substance or substances relative to the starting concentration of the unwanted substance or substances. The resulting droplet may in some embodiments have a volume which is approximately the same as the starting volume. In some embodiments the wash cycle may be repeated until a predetermined maximum quantity of the one or more components is met or exceeded in the resulting droplet. The predetermined amount may represent a substantial reduction relative to the starting concentration. In some cases the resulting droplet may be substantially free of the unwanted substance. For example in some embodiments the reduction in amount of the unwanted substance exceeds 99 99.9 99.99 99.999 99.9999 99.99999 99.999999 percent on a molar basis.

Generally each wash cycle results in retention of sufficient beads for conducting the intended assay without unduly detrimental effects on the results of the assay. In certain embodiments each execution of a wash cycle results in retention of more than 99 99.9 99.99 99.999 99.9999 99.99999 or 99.999999 percent of beads. In still other embodiments the amount of retained beads is calculated and the results are adjusted accordingly.

In some cases the wash cycle is repeated until the reduction in amount of the unwanted substance exceeds 99 99.9 99.99 99.999 99.9999 99.99999 99.999999 percent on a molar basis and more than 99 99.9 99.99 99.999 99.9999 99.99999 or 99.999999 percent of beads is retained.

The magnetic bead droplets were washed with varying numbers of wash cycles using the two wash protocols described above and the chemiluminescence was read with a PMT after adding the chemiluminescence reagent. A plot of number of wash cycles versus the chemiluminescent signal was obtained for both the washing protocols as illustrated in . Wash cycles may typically range from about 2 to about 30 seconds. The time for each wash cycle generally depends on the distance a wash droplet has to travel from the wash reservoir to the magnetic beads en route to the waste reservoir transport speed of the droplets dispensing and disposal rates of the droplets.

Since washing on droplet actuator involves several dilution steps the time to result can be seriously affected when several wash cycles are required to achieve the desired wash efficiency. shows the chemiluminescence signal obtained from an immunoassay after the droplets were subjected to different numbers of wash cycles and different wash protocols. In both the cases presented herein incubation was performed using the off magnet incubation protocol for 3 minutes. Each wash cycle takes about 8 10 seconds in the slug based protocol and 8 14 seconds in the circular droplet protocol. It can be seen from that when washing was performed using slugs of liquid or elongated droplets as shown in desired wash levels were achieved using fewer wash cycles when compared to washing using circular shaped droplets. In the former mixing was minimized and the bulk of the unbound material from the supernatant was replaced with fresh wash buffer whereas in the latter mixing was facilitated by operating the 2 droplets using only one electrode each. The shading used in depict the situation achieved by operating the 2 droplet using two electrodes and one electrode respectively. Also it was observed visually that the dispersion of magnetic beads in the lateral plane was higher in the elongated droplet washing when the fresh wash buffer droplet merged with the magnetic bead droplet. This would enable the breaking up of aggregates and any unbound antibody trapped in the interstices to diffuse into the supernatant and be washed away instantly or in subsequent washes. Hence desired wash levels were achieved in 10 washes using elongated droplet washing as compared to 18 washes in the rounded droplet washing. The washing behavior has two distinct regimes one regime where washing is very pronounced and the second where the washing is more subtle. In the slug based washing case the washing is pronounced with each wash cycle up to 9 cycles after which the effect of washing is almost subtle or negligible. In the rounded droplet protocol the washing effect is pronounced until the 15th wash although the step wash efficiency is less than that observed for the slug based protocol. Washing is only marginally effective for the circular droplet protocol between the 15th and 18cycles. This may occur because the free unbound material may be washed away in the first few cycles after which washing only removes the unbound material trapped between the beads. Removal of substances trapped between the beads may be improved by including resuspension cycles in the wash protocol.

A complete wash protocol may include a series of wash cycles such as the slug based wash cycles of interspersed with a one or more resuspension cycles. Depending on the sensitivity of the assay required and the time to result requirement any number of wash cycles may be interspersed with any number of resuspension cycles. For example a complete wash protocol sequence may include for example four wash cycles four resuspension cycles and four wash cycles.

In an alternative example individual waste reservoirs may be provided for each wash lane . Supernatant droplets may be transported simultaneously to individual waste reservoirs. Multiple individual waste reservoirs provide for increased efficiency e.g. time to result in a washing protocol. Multiple waste reservoirs also provide for a reduction in the number of droplet operations electrodes that are required to transport a supernatant droplet to a waste reservoir. Reducing the number of operations electrodes also reduces the potential for cross contamination between subsequent droplets used in a protocol.

In some embodiments the invention provides a means of splitting a bead containing droplet. In particular it is sometimes useful to split a bead containing droplet in a manner which concentrates the beads into a smaller droplet thereby providing a substantial reduction in unbound substances surrounding the droplet. For example in an assay a droplet comprising sample and beads may be incubated together to permit a target substance from the sample to bind to the beads. Following incubation it may be desirable to remove a large aliquot of sample from the beads prior to initiating a merge and split wash protocol. The invention provides techniques for conducting such separation.

Electrode magnet arrangement includes an arrangement of droplet operations electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations. Droplet is provided in a droplet operations gap not shown or on a droplet operations surface where droplet is subject to droplet operations mediated by electrodes . Magnet is provided in proximity to electrodes M. Electrodes M are a subset of electrodes . Magnet is positioned relative to electrodes M such that when droplet is atop one or more of electrodes M any magnetically responsive beads within droplet are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . Alternatively magnet is positioned relative to electrodes M such that when droplet is subject to droplet operations mediated by electrodes M magnetically responsive beads within droplet are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . The attraction of magnetically responsive beads may cause beads to move within droplet in the direction of magnet . Magnetically responsive beads may move towards an edge of droplet which is proximate magnet . The parameters of the configuration may be adjusted such that beads are attracted towards an edge of droplet and when droplet is transported away from magnet a bead containing droplet splits off of droplet . In this and other examples described herein which make use of magnetically responsive beads and magnets the technique may be optimized by adjusting properties such as interfacial tension of droplet properties and concentration of magnetically responsive beads and the pull force exerted by magnet on magnetically responsive beads . Droplet may be formed using a buffer having an interfacial tension which is sufficiently low to permit magnetic beads to remain behind atop magnet when bead containing droplet is transported away from magnet . The transporting away may be mediated by the electrodes e.g. by electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated droplet operations. In order to enhance the snapping off of beads from a droplet that is being transported away from magnetically restrained beads higher surfactant concentrations may be used. The magnetic bead concentration and the pull force of the magnet may be relatively high.

In general the following parameters may be adjusted so that transport of a magnetically responsive bead containing droplet away from the magnetic field will leave behind a highly concentrated droplet including the magnetically responsive beads which is essentially snapped off as the bead containing droplet moves away from the magnetic field size of the droplet relative to the droplet operations electrode interfacial tension of the droplet magnetic bead properties and concentration pull force of the magnet exerted on the magnetically responsive beads and number size and orientation of magnets used. For example the surfactant may be Tween 20 and the concentration of Tween 20 may range from about 0.02 to about 0.1 . Of course the required concentration will vary depending on the surfactant type. The desired interfacial tension range may typically be in the range of about 1 dynes cm to about 4 dynes cm. In general the greater the size of the droplet relative to the footprint of the electrode the more favorable is it for bead mediated droplet splitting to occur. The magnetic bead concentration range is typically from about 1 mg mL to about 30 mg mL. Pull force of the magnet may typically range from about 1 lbs to about 100 lbs.

Another parameter which may influence the time to result in an immunoassay is the generation of a signal during the incubation of a chemiluminescent substrate with the washed magnetically responsive beads that include the antigen antibody complex. shows a plot of the kinetics of a reaction between a chemiluminescent substrate and ALP on magnetically responsive beads for Troponin I TnI . Immunoassays were performed on TnI 100 ng mL using an on magnet incubation protocol and a circular shaped droplet washing protocol. As shown in about 90 of the end point signal was obtained in about 120 to about 130 seconds. For a lower concentration of the analyte maximum signal was achieved in about 

Immunoassay kits were obtained from Beckman Coulter for Troponin I TnI containing capture antibodies conjugated to magnetic beads reporter antibodies labeled with alkaline phosphatase ALP and standards 0 ng mL 100 ng mL . Chemiluminescence substrate for ALP Lumigen APS 5 was obtained from Lumigen Inc. Southfield Mich. USA . Wash buffer was 0.05 M Tris HCl 0.1M NaCl 0.02 Tween 20 and 0.1 mg mL bovine serum albumin pH 9.5. Discarded whole blood samples obtained from anonymous healthy individuals were procured from Duke University Medical Center Durham USA. TnI standards were prepared by dilution into whole blood at a ratio of 1 part TnI standard 4 parts blood. The concentrations of the standards that were used to spike the samples were 5 25 and 100 ng mL resulting in final TnI concentrations of 1 5 and 20 ng mL in blood. A sample droplet was mixed with a droplet containing magnetic beads with primary capture antibodies and another droplet containing the secondary antibody labeled with ALP reporter antibody . All the droplets were dispensed from their respective on droplet actuator reservoirs and transported to the reactor zone. During incubation droplets were shuttled split and merged to improve binding efficiency. After the formation of the capture antibody antigen reporter antibody complex the magnetic beads were immobilized with a magnet while the unbound material was washed away. After the serial dilution based wash steps each droplet was transported into a detection loop where a chemiluminescent reagent droplet was dispensed and merged with the bead droplet to produce chemiluminescence from the enzyme substrate reaction. The chemiluminescent product droplet was then transported to the detection spot and the end point glow of chemiluminescence was detected using the PMT.

Using optimized protocols for incubation and washing a full immunoassay was performed on TnI 5 ng mL . Magnetically responsive beads were incubated with capture antibody analyte and secondary antibody labeled with ALP reporter using an off magnet incubation protocol. Ten slug based washes were performed to remove the unbound material from the supernatant wash time approximately 2 minutes . The droplet with washed magnetically responsive beads with the antigen antibody complex was mixed with one droplet of a chemiluminescent substrate and incubated for 2 minutes. The end point chemiluminescence was detected using a photon counter. In this example the total time to result was approximately 10 minutes per immunoassay.

Electrode magnet arrangement includes an arrangement of droplet operations electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations. Droplet is provided in a droplet operations gap not shown or on a droplet operations surface where droplet is subject to droplet operations mediated by electrodes . Magnet is arranged in proximity to droplet operations electrodes M. Electrodes M are a subset of electrodes . Magnet is positioned relative to electrodes M such that when droplet is atop one or more of electrodes M any magnetically responsive beads within droplet are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . Alternatively magnet is positioned relative to electrodes M such that when droplet is subject to droplet operations mediated by electrodes M magnetically responsive beads within droplet are attracted by the magnetic field of magnet . The attraction of magnetically responsive beads may cause beads to move within droplet in the direction of magnet . Magnetically responsive beads may move towards an edge of droplet which is proximate magnet . Various techniques described herein for manipulating beads in droplets may also be employed with electrode magnet arrangement . As illustrated droplet is a 3 droplet meaning that its footprint is approximately 3 times the area of one droplet operations electrode . Droplet may be formed by merging a magnetic bead containing droplet with a sample droplet e.g. by merging a 1 magnetic bead containing droplet with a 2 sample droplet. Magnetically responsive beads are coated with a primary antibody that has an affinity for a specific target antigen. An example of a process of cytokine detection on a droplet actuator may include one or more of the following steps 

Step A of shows a droplet that has magnetically responsive beads therein and is positioned at a certain droplet operations electrode . Droplet is formed by merging a 1 magnetic bead containing droplet with a 2 sample droplet.

Steps B and C of show an incubation process in which droplet is repeatedly transported back and forth via droplet operations to adjacent electrodes . Repeated transporting of droplet is used during incubation of beads and sample in order to provide sufficient resuspension and mixing of magnetically responsive beads for optimal antibody and antigen binding. Typically two or three droplet operations electrodes may be used to transport a 3 droplet which takes on an elongated or slug shaped geometry. In one nonlimiting example droplet may be incubated for 6 minutes using 2 droplet operations electrodes and transporting droplet over a span of 8 electrodes at a switching speed of 5 Hertz Hz . The incubation cycle may include any combination of droplet operations that provides for sufficient mixing of beads with the contents of droplet . It will be appreciated that timing and steps of the incubation protocol may vary depending on the sample content the degree and or specificity of affinity of the beads for the target substance and the purpose of the assay being performed. Droplet is illustrated in the figure as a 2 droplet however in other embodiments the droplet may have a size which ranges from about 1 to about 6 or even larger. In some cases the droplet may have a size which is approximately 1 2 3 4 5 6 or larger.

Step D of shows droplet that has magnetically responsive beads therein transported to droplet operations electrode M. A supernatant droplet is split off using droplet operations. Because magnetically responsive beads are attracted to magnet they are retained in droplet during the splitting operation. Supernatant droplet is substantially free of beads. In one example supernatant droplet is a 1 droplet and droplet is now a 2 droplet. Supernatant droplet may be discarded or transported downstream for use in another process e.g. merged with another set of beads having affinity for a different target . Droplet may also be subjected to a wash protocol such as a merge and split wash protocol to remove additional unbound materials from the beads.

Step E of shows a reagent droplet that includes secondary antibody being transported using droplet operations to droplet operations electrode M. Reagent droplet is merged with droplet i.e. a 2 droplet using droplet operations to form for example a 3 reaction droplet. In one example reagent droplet is a 1 droplet that includes biotinylated secondary antibody that has an affinity to the target antigen. Merged droplet is subjected to one or more on magnet or off magnet incubation cycles. In one embodiment merged droplet is incubated for about 4 minutes the incubation cycle described in steps B and C. Following the incubation period droplet is transported using droplet operations to droplet operations electrode M and a 1 supernatant droplet is split off using droplet operations as described in step D in order to yield a 2 droplet . The supernatant droplet not shown that includes unbound secondary antibody may be discarded. In an alternative embodiment droplet is parked on the electrode path at a position which is outside the attractive influence of the magnet and droplet is transported away from the magnet and merged with droplet . The combined droplet may for example be positioned in a manner which is similar to the position of droplet in Step A.

Step F of shows a bead washing step in which a wash droplet is transported from wash reservoir along droplet operations electrodes . Wash droplet merges with droplet . Beads may be restrained during a droplet splitting operation in which one or more bead free supernatant droplets are removed from droplet . The process may be repeated and in some cases beads may be resuspended during the washing step e.g. using the resuspension techniques discussed herein. This is done to remove any unbound material trapped in between the interstices of the magnetic beads. Here as in other steps and other processes described herein supernatant droplets may be discarded or transported elsewhere for use as input to another process.

Step G of shows one or more reagent droplets e.g. transported to droplet operations electrode M. In one example reagent droplet that includes a blocking agent e.g. Elisa Synblock and reagent droplet that includes a streptavidin enzyme conjugate e.g. streptavidin alkaline phosphatase ALP or streptavidin horseradish peroxidase are transported to droplet operations electrode M and merged using droplet operations with droplet . Merged droplet is incubated for 4 minutes using droplet operations as described in steps B and C of . Following the incubation period droplet is transported to droplet operations electrode M and a supernatant droplet i.e. a 1 droplet is split off using droplet operations as described in step D of in order to yield a 2 droplet . The supernatant droplet not shown that includes unbound streptavidin enzyme conjugate may be discarded. Droplet is subsequently washed for example 15 times as described in step F of . Following bead washing a 1 supernatant droplet is split off droplet as described in step D of in order to yield a 1 droplet . The supernatant droplet not shown is discarded. Droplet that includes antibody antigen sandwich is now ready for detection. In an alternative embodiment droplet is parked on the electrode path at a position which is outside the attractive influence of the magnet and droplet is transported away from the magnet and merged with droplet . The combined droplet may for example be positioned in a manner which is similar to the position of droplet in Step A. Following this step the merged droplet may be subjected to an incubation protocol followed by immobilization of the beads at the magnet and splitting of the droplet to yield a supernatant droplet.

Step H of shows droplet 1 droplet that includes a detection substrate transported to droplet operations electrode M and merged using droplet operations with droplet . The detection substrate is converted by the enzyme conjugate into a fluorescent signal product formation time about 15 20 seconds . The chemiluminescent signal is measured by a detector not shown in order to determine the quantity of antigen that is present. In some embodiments wash buffer droplets may be transported across the detection window following each chemiluminescent droplet to clean up the detection window and the detection loop prior to the next detection.

In a related embodiment the invention may make use of an enzyme or a series of enzymes to generate a signal amplification cascade. The cascade improves the sensitivity of the detection system. As an example the signal cascade may terminate with firefly luciferase converting luciferin to light in a flash chemiluminescence reaction. In one example galactosidase may be coupled to an antibody or streptavidin. Luciferin galactoside which is not a substrate for luciferase may be delivered to the immuno complex incubated and hydrolyzed to free luciferin and galactose by the galactosidase. The luciferin is then delivered to the PMT where it is mixed with excess ATP and firefly luciferase. All of the luciferin is rapidly converted to light in a flash reaction. Beta galactosidase can form 700 pmole luciferin per ng enzyme per minute which is equivalent to 7photons per second. In this method the background is very low and unlike the currently used glow substrates all of the assay signal may be captured in the short time of the flash reaction. This method also reduces or eliminates the currently observed contamination of long lived glow chemiluminescent products on actuator because of the short life time of the luciferin product. It just decays away spontaneously so washing to remove glowing products is eliminated. This system is not a signal regeneration loop like the one used in pyrosequencing.

The steps in the flash assay may be achieved using droplet operations. For example a droplet protocol may include providing a first droplet comprising galactosidase antibody or galactosidase streptavidin. A second droplet including luciferin galactoside which is not a substrate for luciferase may be combined with the first droplet to yield a third droplet. The third droplet may be incubated and hydrolyzed to free luciferin and galactose by the beta galactosidase. The third droplet including freed luciferin may be transported using droplet operations into the presence of a sensor such as a PMT where it is combined using droplet operations with a droplet comprising excess ATP and luciferase e.g. firefly luciferase . The luciferin is rapidly converted to light in a flash reaction.

The flash assay of the invention may be performed on a droplet actuator in oil. In some embodiments a common detection window is used for multiple assays. Where glow assays are used microdroplets from previous reactions may create background signal that interferes with detection of subsequent droplets. The flash assay of the invention provides a means whereby multiple droplets may be processed for detection in a common detection window on a droplet actuator in a filler fluid with little or no background signal remaining between droplets. For example little or no background signal from a previous droplet may remain in oil or in microdroplets in oil in proximity to the detection window. In some cases background signal interference from previous droplets is substantially eliminated by using the flash procedure.

In flash assays it may be useful to use wash droplets that include the trigger solution to clean droplet transport lanes. Electrode paths that have been used to transport the substrate may be washed by transporting one or more wash droplets across some portion or all of the same area. The wash droplets may include the flash enzyme. For example the wash droplet s may include luciferase or luciferase and ATP.

As another example acridinium ester AE may be used as a chemiluminescent label in a flash assay of the invention. The AE signal quickly rises to a high value typically in less than about 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 seconds upon addition of the trigger solution. The signal decays to very low values typically in less than about 60 30 20 or 10 seconds. This decay may eliminate contamination on the detection loop and the detection spot. However contamination may still be present on the wash lanes and the incubation region by free secondary antibody bound with AE which can potentially affect the subsequent assays performed on the same lane. Transporting 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more droplets of the AE trigger solution over the electrodes that are contaminated with antibody bound with AE would produce chemiluminescence which would decay quickly substantially eliminating AE contamination.

A 1 droplet including beads with capture Ab was combined using droplet operations with a 2 droplet sample to yield a 3 reaction droplet. The 3 reaction droplet was subjected to an off magnet incubation protocol for 6 minutes shuttled the 3 droplet using 2 electrodes over a span of 8 electrodes with no split at a switching speed of 5 Hz . The reaction droplet was transported to the magnet and a 1 supernatant droplet was split from the reaction droplet to yield a 2 bead containing droplet. A 1 droplet including biotinylated secondary Ab was added to the 2 droplet to yield a 3 droplet which was incubated for 4 minutes using the same protocol at a switching speed of 5 Hz. The reaction droplet was again transported to the magnet and a 1 supernatant droplet was split from the reaction droplet to yield a 2 bead containing droplet. Beads were washed using a merge and split wash protocol. Wash buffer droplets were 2 slugs of IA wash buffer. This process was repeated 5 times to remove most of the unbound secondary antibody and sample from the supernatant. After washing a 1 supernatant droplet was split off of the bead droplet using droplet operations to yield a 1 reaction droplet. A 1 droplet including phosphate free Synblock and a 1 droplet including Streptavidin ALP were added to the 1 bead droplet to yield a 3 reaction droplet. Synblock acts as the blocking agent preventing any non specific adsorption of reagents onto the beads while the streptavidin ALP binds to the biotinylated secondary antibody. The 3 reaction droplet was incubated using the same incubation protocol at 5 Hz for 4 minutes. The droplet was transported to the magnet and a 1 supernatant droplet was split off from the 3 reaction droplet to yield a 2 reaction droplet. The 2 reaction droplet was then subjected to merge and split droplet washing protocol. The process was repeated 15 times to ensure no unbound streptavidin ALP floating in the supernatant which would result in false positives. After washing is complete the 2 droplet was split at the magnet to yield a final 1 bead containing droplet. The 1 droplet with the magnetic beads containing the immuno complex was merged with a 1 chemiluminescent substrate droplet and incubated for 120 seconds. Three wash droplets were transported over the detection pathway and spot to remove any potential contaminants prior to introducing the next droplet for detection.

The invention also provides a microfluidics assay multiplexing platform that uses digital microfluidics and quantum dots. The invention makes use in some embodiments of an integrated multi well droplet actuator in combination with a spectrometer system. Immunoassays may be multiplexed using quantum dots in droplets on a droplet actuator as optical reporters. For example the spectral multiplexing capability of quantum dots may be combined with the spatial multiplexing of digital microfluidics in order to provide a unique highly multiplexed platform for the problem of cytokine profiling. The microfluidics assay multiplexing platform of the invention may address the key technical barriers that are associated with current state of the art technologies in cytokine profiling such as antibody cross reactivity and sample volume requirements.

In one example platform of the invention may be used to perform automated and multiplexed cytokine assays. For example assays may be multiplexed using multiple reaction pathways and multiple types of quantum dots on a single multi well droplet actuator . Droplet actuator may in one nonlimiting example include 8 reagent reservoirs and 12 sample reservoirs for performing 8 plex immunoassays on 12 samples for a total of 96 immunoassays i.e. 96 plex capability when all 12 samples are the same or 8 plex assays on each of the 12 different samples . Platform provides a spatio spectral multiplexing platform by which cytokine immunoassays may be performed by spatially dividing a sample into for example 12 droplets and by performing for example a further 4 plex immunoassays in each droplet using quantum dots. When 4 plex spectral multiplexing is added droplet actuator can be used to perform up to 384 plex assays on a single sample loaded into 12 sample reservoirs where a 4 plex spectral multiplexing is performed on each of the 8 plex spatially multiplexed samples. When 12 different samples are loaded into the sample reservoirs then 32 plex assays can be performed on each of the 12 samples. Examples of immunoassays that may be performed by use of the microfluidics assay multiplexing platform of the invention are described in more detail with reference to . Additionally an example of multi well droplet actuator that has 96 plex capability is illustrated in .

Beads may be any suitable size including for example microbeads microparticles nanobeads and nanoparticles. In some cases beads may be magnetically responsive in other cases beads may not be significantly magnetically responsive. Examples of suitable magnetically responsive beads are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0260686 entitled Multiplex flow assays preferably with magnetic particles as solid phase. Beads have an affinity for a certain target substance such as for a certain type of cell protein DNA and or antigen. When the target substance contacts beads the target substance may bind to beads . Analytes and may be different types of target substances to which beads have an affinity. In one example analytes and may be different protein cytokine analytes.

Quantum dots which are also known as semiconductor nanocrystals are generally composed of an inner semiconductor core usually cadmium sulfide CdS or cadmium telluride CdTe that is surrounded by a high bandgap material such as zinc sulfide ZnS . The emission spectrum of quantum dots is associated with the size of quantum dots which usually ranges between about 2 nanometers nm and about 20 nm. Quantum dots may be commercially available from suppliers such as but not limited to Life Technologies Carlsbad Calif. and Evident Technologies Troy N.Y. . Quantum dots have unique optical properties including narrow emission spectra broad range excitation and high photostability.

The use of quantum dots in digital microfluidics immunoassays provides certain advantages. For example sensitivity may be increased by using quantum dots rather than using the traditional organic dyes. The flexibility in choices of emission spectra of quantum dots allows the choice of a type of quantum dot that has a wavelength that differs from the autofluorescence background of another key assay component such as magnetically responsive beads or a PCB substrate or the sample thus improving signal to background noise ratio. Referring to quantum dot and may be representative of quantum dots that have different emission spectra respectively. shows beads that are conjugated to capture antibodies respective analytes and and four types of quantum dots that are conjugated to their appropriate detection antibody.

The process that is shown in is an example of an immunoassay sandwich format that incorporates quantum dots where the assay antibody sandwich occurs on a solid support e.g. bead and the secondary optical labels e.g. quantum dot may be imaged using a fluorescent microscope. Although magnetic beads are shown in the figure for solid support the surface of the droplet actuator modified with capture elements such as nucleic acids antibodies or antigens can be used as a fixed solid support instead of magnetic beads. In one example the binding and the number of immobilized quantum dots may be correlated to the level of an analyte such as prostate specific antigen PSA by fluorescent imaging of quantum dots on for example a carbon substrate. Furthermore a spatially multiplexed cytokine approach using a protein microarray with a single type of quantum dot may be used to detect certain cytokines e.g. TNF IL 8 IL 6 MIP 1 IL 13 and IL 1 in a single solution down to a parts per million concentration level. Any analytes detectable using a sandwich immunoassay or competitive immunoassay format may be detected using the protocols of the invention.

Separate pools of beads may be conjugated to the corresponding capture antibody of the cytokine protein of interest. By way of example four separate conjugations occur for a 4 plex assay. In addition four detection antibodies may be separately conjugated to four types of quantum dots e.g. quantum dots and . Referring again to four pairs of conjugates e.g. four bead quantum dot pairs with their respective protein cytokine analytes is shown. These conjugates represent separate droplet pools of conjugates of course without analyte at this point may be combined prior to introduction on the multi well droplet actuator of microfluidics assay multiplexing platform . When combined with a sample that includes analytes e.g. cytokine analytes the beads analytes and quantum dots form a sandwich. After the conjugate and sample are mixed multiple wash steps may occur in order to remove unbound quantum dots . After washing the sample may be resuspended in a droplet and transported to the detection zone e.g. the interface between multi well droplet actuator and spectrometer system of multi well droplet actuator .

By using for example four types of quantum dots e.g. quantum dots of different emission spectrum and multiple separate detection spots that are provided in microfluidics assay multiplexing platform the multiplexing capability may be expanded to n plex. An important aspect of combining two multiplex schemes is utilizing compatible antibody pairs. Certain spectrometer tools and algorithms are provided for spectral uncoupling of the assay signal from the respective types of quantum dots.

The opposite ends of the 12 excitation fibers are optically coupled to a light source such as an ultraviolet UV source . The opposite ends of the 12 collection fibers may be arranged in a linear array e.g. a spectrometer slit . The slit may be imaged through a diffraction grating onto a two dimensional 2D charge coupled device CCD array . This arrangement preserves the spatial information y axis from each droplet and disperses the spectral information onto the x axis.

While a spectrometer system such as spectrometer system may be the preferred method of separating spectral information from multiple quantum dots because of cost size and performance advantages microfluidics assay multiplexing platform is not limited to spectrometer system only. Alternatively an optical system for separating spectral information may include dichroic beamsplitters in combination with narrowband filters. For example a filter based design that may measure 12 spots and 4 spectral channels may include 36 separate dichroic beamsplitters e.g. 3 per detection spot narrowband filters and 48 detectors. However filter based designs may be considerably more costly and complex as compared with the fiber based spectrometer system especially as the multiplexing number increases such as to 8 multiplexed quantum dots.

A coupling lens may be provided at the end of each excitation fiber and collection fiber . shows coupling lenses that are arranged to distribute light to and or collect light from droplets . Excitation fibers in combination with coupling lenses are used to focus the excitation light from for example UV source onto droplets . Collection fibers in combination with coupling lenses are used to collect the quantum dot fluorescence from each droplet .

The 12 channel fiber based readout head makes use of oblique incidence excitation and collection from each droplet. Droplets represent microfluidic droplets each including multiple types of quantum dots. shows two fibers e.g. one excitation fiber and one collection fiber per droplet . At the end of each excitation fiber and collection fiber are the coupling lenses that either focus the excitation light to the quantum dots in the droplet or collect light from the droplet to the collection fiber . These excitation fiber and collection fiber pairs are arranged linearly along the length of the detection zone on multi well droplet actuator that includes droplets however it will be appreciated that the arrangement need not be linear at the collection end. Any fiber array pattern e.g. grid or other preselected arrangement such as an irregular arrangement at the sample end and the fibers may coalesce into a linear format at the spectrometer slit. In the specific embodiment illustrated here the droplets on multi well droplet actuator may have a spacing of for example about 4.5 millimeters mm between assay based droplets.

The operation of example spectrometer system is generally as follows. In order to detect quantum dot emission from 12 separate spots without optical crosstalk the design of spectrometer system incorporates the 12 collection fibers from 12 droplets to a vertical position along the narrow slit as shown in . The collected light from the end of each collection fiber at slit is imaged onto the 2D CDD array dispersed along the x axis wavelength axis and confined to a defined area along the y axis. shows the binning scheme from 2D CDD array . As shown in light from each droplet is confined to a vertical zone and dispersed along the x axis dispersion axis . Each of these vertical zones is separately binned to provide the spectra shown in . Sub vertical binning allows the separation of spatial and spectral information over the 12 droplets that are being interrogated. In the alternative embodiment of the dichroic system separate filters are provided for each quantum dot and each droplet measurement channel.

Platform of the invention provides high immunoassay multiplexability by dividing the multiplexability down into both the spatial and spectral regime by combining spatial multiplexing in the digital microfluidic platform and spectral multiplexing in quantum dots. Microfluidics assay multiplexing platform provides sandwich immunoassay capability with the ability to reach detection limits that are clinically prognostic. While describe a combined multiplex approach of a 4 plex spectral multiplex capability with a 12 plex spatial multiplex capability this is exemplary only. Microfluidics assay multiplexing platform of the invention may be used to combine n plex spectral multiplex capability with a m plex spatial multiplex capability where n and m denote two numbers for the order of multiplexing and in a limiting case can be the same order. Microfluidics assay multiplexing platform of the invention may be for example a 96 plex protein assay system that provides spectral multiplexing to an 8 plex spectral capability combined with 12 plex spatial capability thereby proving 96 plex capability using only about 30 microliter L total sample. In existing multiplexing technology achieving multiplexability beyond 10 plex in a single solution without assay cross reactivity is an extremely difficult exercise. However by combining spatial and spectral multiplexing in the microfluidics assay multiplexing platform of the invention this antibody crosstalk barrier can be mitigated and reduced to order of spectral multiplexing. For example instead of a 10 plex where 10 antibody pairs resulting in 100 combinations need to be tested for cross reactivity with spectral multiplexing two 5 plex assays can be setup which broadens the potential combinations of antibody pairs where 5 antibody pairs result only in 25 combinations .

The invention provides a droplet actuator having unique electrode structures for manipulating particles within a droplet on the droplet actuator as well as methods of performing such manipulations. The invention makes use of dielectrophoresis DEP . Polarizable particles are concentrated at locations of highest or lowest electrical field strength. The droplet actuator of the invention includes electrodes configured to produce non uniform electrical fields i.e. fields in which electrical field intensities are spatially variable. In this manner particles may be concentrated regionalized isolated or trapped within or guided to a region of a droplet on a droplet actuator. The DEP electrodes of the invention may be configured in association with the top substrate when present and or on the bottom substrate of the droplet actuator. Typically the DEP electrodes will be on a surface of the top and or bottom substrate and will be covered with a dielectric coating. In certain embodiments the electrodes used for establishing a DEP effect may double as electrowetting electrodes.

DEP electrodes A B C D are wire electrodes having a quadripolar DEP geometry. In the illustrated embodiment they terminate at DEP region which is centrally located relative to droplet operations electrode . Other arrangements are possible within the scope of the invention. In DEP particle trapping configuration electrodes A and D will have the same phase and electrodes B and C will have an opposite phase relative to the phase of electrodes A and D. However other arrangements are possible within the scope of the invention. For example in one embodiment particles may be trapped and rotated by applying a difference between each of adjacent electrodes A B C D which is less than 180 . For example it may be useful to apply a 90 difference between each of electrodes A B C D e.g. electrode A is 0 B is 90 C is 180 and D is 270 .

Generally speaking DEP region is configured such that DEP fields can influence one or more particles within a droplet on a droplet operations electrode. The size of DEP region may be selected based on the number size and or DEP properties of particles to be influenced by the DEP fields. For example where particles are to be trapped more particles can be trapped in a larger DEP region . Similarly where it is desirable to trap a single particle the size of the DEP region may be selected accordingly.

In normal droplet operations the electrodes A D can be operated in tandem as an ordinary droplet operations electrode. However in DEP mode of operation the electrodes can be used to trap particles. In this mode electrodes A and C will have a first phase and electrodes B and D will have a second phase which is opposite i.e. differs by 180 relative to the first phase. illustrate that different gap sizes can be used to establish trapping zones for differently sized particles or for capturing different amounts of particles. Among other things by controlling the number of particles captured it is possible to aliquot particles from one droplet into multiple sub droplets each sub droplet having an approximately equal quantity of the particles.

In operation each concentric group of sub electrodes can be activated independently to capture different numbers or sizes of particles. In one embodiment groups A B and C may be activated to capture the smallest quantity of particles groups A and B may be activated to capture a larger quantity of particles and group A may be activated to capture a still larger quantity of particles. In another embodiment group C may be activated to capture the smallest number group B may be activated to capture a larger quantity and group A may be activated to capture a still larger quantity of particles. In one embodiment each group of electrodes i.e. the A group the B group and the C group is activated together. In another embodiment one or more members of any of the groups may be operated independently. For example in one embodiment the group C electrodes may be operated independently such that it is possible to activate groups A and B with any combination of the group C electrodes. It is possible to have each group of electrodes activated at different voltages and or frequencies for example group A can be activated at voltage V and frequency f B at voltage V and frequency f and C at voltage V and frequency f so that different particles can be segregated within a droplet at the gaps between the different groups based on their polarizabilities. Among several applications possible through this embodiment is the separation of dead and viable cells within a droplet along a circular path of different radii.

Referring to a droplet including particles may be transported using droplet operations along electrode path onto electrode . DEP electrodes may be activated causing particles to congregate along an edge of droplet . A new droplet including particles may be dispensed using droplet operations from electrode onto electrode path . In another embodiment the order of polarity may be reversed to localize particles at a location which is distal to dispensing path and a droplet substantially lacking in particles may be dispensed. In another embodiment rather than being transported into place the droplet is loaded onto a reservoir electrode and beads in the droplet are subjected to DEP to congregate beads in a dispensing region of the droplet such that a droplet with beads may be dispensed. In another embodiment rather than being transported into place the droplet is loaded onto a reservoir electrode and beads in the droplet are subjected to DEP to congregate beads away from a dispensing region of the droplet such that a droplet lacking beads may be dispensed.

In an alternative embodiment DEP is used to focus the particles between the oppositely facing electrodes and traveling wave DEP is used to move through the droplet. In this embodiment the top DEP electrodes illustrated in would be phase shifted as they are illustrated 0 90 180 270 and the bottom electrodes would be 180 270 0 90 so that they are also phase shifted by 90 but they are opposite in polarity to the opposing electrodes. In some embodiments phases may be changed during operation such that beads are caused to congregate in one region of a droplet then travel to another region of the droplet.

In all electrodes in the arrangement are off. In reservoir electrode and electrodes are on and DEP electrode is activated to effect a DEP field in the fringe region attracting and trapping the particles in the DEP field. In an intermediate one of the electrodes is deactivated to cause formation of droplet shown in . In this manner a droplet including substantially all particles is dispensed from reservoir electrode while droplet retains substantially none of the particles. It will be appreciated that by appropriate timing and selection of DEP field properties e.g. size of the fringe region a droplet including less than substantially all of the particles may dispensed leaving some particles in droplet . In this manner droplets including predetermined quantities of particles may be dispensed.

It should also be noted that DEP arrangements such as those described herein can be used to agitate beads within a droplet. For example beads may settle in a droplet after time or may be attracted to weak magnetic forces from magnets located elsewhere on a droplet actuator. Beads can be resuspended within a reservoir by alternating between negative and positive DEP to redistribute beads within a droplet. A similar effect can be achieved using DEP electrodes arranged on the top and bottom plates e.g. as shown in .

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly various aspects of the invention may take the form of hardware embodiments software embodiments including firmware resident software micro code etc. or embodiments combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the methods of the invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer useable medium may be utilized for software aspects of the invention. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include some or all of the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission medium such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can include store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Certain aspects of invention are described with reference to various methods and method steps. It will be understood that each method step can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the methods.

The computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement various aspects of the method steps.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing various functions acts specified in the methods of the invention.

The foregoing detailed description of embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings which illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments having different structures and operations do not depart from the scope of the invention. The term the invention or the like is used with reference to certain specific examples of the many alternative aspects or embodiments of the applicants invention set forth in this specification and neither its use nor its absence is intended to limit the scope of the applicants invention or the scope of the claims. This specification is divided into sections for the convenience of the reader only. Headings should not be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. The definitions are intended as a part of the description of the invention. It will be understood that various details of the invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the invention. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

