---

title: Simultaneous zoom in windows on a touch sensitive device
abstract: Certain aspects of the present disclosure relate to a technique for generating simultaneous zoom in windows on a touch sensitive device. A first portion of the user content is zooming into by touching the display screen in a proximity of the first portion using the touch input device while retaining an original zoom size of a first remaining portion of the user content. A second portion of the user content from the first remaining portion is zoomed into by touching the display screen in a proximity of the second portion using the touch input device while retaining a zoomed in first portion and an original zoom size of a second remaining portion of the of the first remaining portion, the original zoom size of the first and the second remaining portions being the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477373&OS=09477373&RS=09477373
owner: Open Invention Network LLC
number: 09477373
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150106
---
This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 769 335 filed on Feb. 17 2013 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 928 700 issued on Jan. 6 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 034 860 filed on Feb. 25 2011 which in turn claims the benefit of and is a non provisional of prior filed U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61 317 827 filed on Mar. 26 2010 incorporated herein by reference. This application is also related to commonly assigned U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 317 812 filed on Mar. 26 2010 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 317 800 filed on Mar. 26 2010 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 317 741 filed on Mar. 26 2010 and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 753 163 filed on Apr. 2 2010 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 786 875 issued on Jul. 22 2014 and U.S. Ser. No. 12 753 167 filed on Apr. 2 2010 and U.S. Ser. No. 12 753 171 filed on Apr. 2 2010 and U.S. Ser. No. 12 753 180 filed on Apr. 2 2010 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 559 036 issued on Oct. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 317 744 filed on Mar. 26 2010 and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 770 944 filed on Apr. 30 2010 and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 770 965 filed on Apr. 30 2010 and U.S. Ser. No. 12 770 974 filed on Apr. 30 2010 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 317 793 filed on Mar. 26 2010 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to touch sensitive devices and more specifically to a method apparatus and computer readable medium for generating simultaneous zoom in windows on a touch sensitive device.

User interface UI is often one of the most important parts of a computer program because it determines how easily a user can communicate with the program. A powerful program with a poorly designed UI has little value. Text based and graphical user interfaces GUIs that use windows icons and pop up menus have become standard on personal computers. Text based UIs as well as GUIs typically use an input device such as a keyboard mouse or stylus to provide user input and control the movement of a cursor or pointer on a display screen.

Touch sensitive surfaces are rapidly becoming more common in computing devices. A natural input device for computing devices with touch sensitive surfaces is a user s finger. They are very convenient as they allow a user to make natural gestures familiar to the user in other contexts such as by entering handwriting using a special stylus such as an elongated pen like object having a pointed tip. Many of these devices also allow input to be provided by user s fingertip. The term touch sensitive surface or device will be used herein to refer to such surfaces or devices that are configured to detect the touch of any type of stylus such as a specially design stylus device or a user s finger. One disadvantage of using a finger or other broad tipped stylus with a touch sensitive device is that it is more difficult to accurately target where the finger will and will not touch. For instance where the touch sensitive device is combined with a display thus a touch sensitive display it is difficult to use a finger to target small displayed objects so that they may be selected and or manipulated. Note that for many elderly and for some people with neurological disorder it is very difficult to stop their hands from shaking. Clearly constantly shaking hand will make it very hard for a user to use his finger to navigate through information displayed densely on a touch screen.

In addition various pointing devices such as mice and man made pen type stylus digitizers provide for a hover function meaning that the user may position the cursor over an area without generating a click. However few if any touch sensitive displays have this capability when used by a human finger. The need exists to provide a way for users to hover the cursor using only their finger on a touch sensitive display and to provide a way for users to be able to use a touch sensitive device with their fingers or other inherently imprecise styluses while maintaining a reasonable level of accuracy.

Solutions including a patent assigned to Microsoft Corporation are attempting to address this problem. One of such patents is a recently issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 489 306 Touch screen accuracy by Kolmykov Zotov et al. In this invention a user interface is provided allowing a user to simulate mouse hovering with the user s finger on a touch sensitive display. When a finger or other stylus touches the touch sensitive display adjacent to a display cursor a control appears that enables the user to drag the cursor about the display by dragging the control. Manipulation of the control instead of the cursor allows the user to see the cursor while it moves making it easier to accurately target small objects that were previously difficult to target directly. See copied from the above mentioned patent application.

Unfortunately solution of U.S. Pat. No. 7 489 306 described above is not well suited for small touch screen devices such as cell phones and PDAs with relatively large displayed information. Information that can be easily navigated on large touch screens need to be reduced in size if the same level of navigation convenience is expected on smaller touch screens. shows a scaled down version of a city map on a small screen normally seen well on larger screens.

Same information can be easily viewed on larger screen as illustrated in . Prior art solutions to such problems are re formatting of information to fit smaller size touch screens or to zoom into a specific area as needed. The first type of solution is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 742 043 Reformatting with modular proxy server by Moussa et al. or in U.S. Pat. No. 6 226 642 Content modification of internet web pages for a television class display by Beranek et al. Authors of both inventions realize that information normally formatted for certain type of screens needs to be displayed on screens of different sizes and resolution capabilities. Therefore they propose solutions addressing such needs by properly reformatting information content. Any one skilled in the art would recognize immediately that reformatting data is costly as it requires additional hardware and software. Moreover there is added cost of maintenance as reformatted data could quickly become outdated. E.g. news information may need to be constantly updated thus reformatting data would be short lived. Moreover for small devices such as cell phones PDAs etc reformatting most likely would mean reducing the content. Therefore richness of the content will be lost and navigating through limited information displayed on the screen may not be very valuable service for the users.

Another obvious and commonly used solution is to zoom into specific area of displayed information. Examples are seen in daily life of anyone using computers zooming into the text of online documentation or zooming into specific area of a map etc. For example you can double tap or use the pinch gesture to expand webpage columns in Safari. Zoom is a special accessibility feature that lets you magnify the entire screen of any application. For example iPhone by APPLE Corporation is used to see what s on the display. Turn Zoom on or off In Settings choose General Accessibility Zoom and tap the Zoom On Off switch. Zoom in or out Double tap the screen with three fingers. By default the screen is magnified by 200 percent. If you manually change the magnification by using the tap and drag gesture described below iPhone automatically returns to that magnification when you zoom in by double tapping with three fingers.

Disadvantage of this method is that while user zooms into a specific area he is not able to see the big picture . Consider for example a map application. Often user would like to zoom into a specific area on a city map without expanding the whole map so that he can keep track of the landmarks and their relative distance and location to the zoomed in area. In general when detailed information is being looked up it is desirable to keep the bigger picture in perspective.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 992 661 Electronic device digital still camera and display control method by Ikehata et al describes an electronic device that comprises a touch screen configured to output coordinate information corresponding to the position where it is touched a display unit configured to display an item indicating an operating area in a predetermined position on the touch screen and a control unit configured to clear the item displayed on the display unit when an area of the touch screen other than the area indicated by the item is touched. This invention describes a method of selecting and displaying an enlarged image of a part of the image corresponding to the input image data does this for images in the context of small sized cameras. Ikehata s invention does not describe consecutive zoom in zoom out operations for localized area as opposed for the whole information displayed by the application . Method for instructing local zoom in zoom out operations are different. Ikehata s invention does not describe operations with two or more localized zoom in areas and objects selected in these areas.

There is therefore a need to provide a way for users to be able to use a touch sensitive device with their fingers or other inherently imprecise styluses while maintaining a reasonable level of accuracy.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a method for viewing user content on a touch sensitive display screen of a touch sensitive device by using a touch input device. The method generally includes zooming into a first portion of the user content by touching the display screen in a proximity of the first portion using the touch input device while retaining an original zoom size of a first remaining portion of the user content and zooming into a second portion of the user content from the first remaining portion by touching the display screen in a proximity of the second portion using the touch input device while retaining a zoomed in first portion and an original zoom size of a second remaining portion of the of the first remaining portion the original zoom size of the first and the second remaining portions being the same.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for viewing user content on a touch sensitive display screen of a touch sensitive device by using a touch input device. The apparatus generally includes at least one processor configured to zoom into a first portion of the user content by touching the display screen in a proximity of the first portion using the touch input device while retaining an original zoom size of a first remaining portion of the user content and zoom into a second portion of the user content from the first remaining portion by touching the display screen in a proximity of the second portion using the touch input device while retaining a zoomed in first portion and an original zoom size of a second remaining portion of the of the first remaining portion the original zoom size of the first and the second remaining portions being the same and a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a computer program product for viewing user content on a touch sensitive display screen of a touch sensitive device by using a touch input device the computer program product generally including a computer readable medium comprising instructions for zooming into a first portion of the user content by touching the display screen in a proximity of the first portion using the touch input device while retaining an original zoom size of a first remaining portion of the user content and zooming into a second portion of the user content from the first remaining portion by touching the display screen in a proximity of the second portion using the touch input device while retaining a zoomed in first portion and an original zoom size of a second remaining portion of the of the first remaining portion the original zoom size of the first and the second remaining portions being the same.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. The figures illustrate diagrams of the functional blocks of various embodiments. The functional blocks are not necessarily indicative of the division between hardware circuitry. Thus for example one or more of the functional blocks e.g. processors or memories may be implemented in a single piece of hardware e.g. a general purpose signal processor or a block or random access memory hard disk or the like . Similarly the programs may be stand alone programs may be incorporated as subroutines in an operating system may be functions in an installed imaging software package and the like. It should be understood that the various embodiments are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the drawings.

Aspects of the present invention may be used in connection with a system comprising of a touch screen and a computing device. illustrates a system with a touch screen capable of detecting touch events in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Specific example in the context of this discussion would be a touch event in a specific location and interpreted by the system as command helping user to improve touch accuracy.

Invented touch sensor system generally comprises one or more touch screens devices. A touch sensor system with a single touch screen device is illustrated in . The touch screen device communicatively coupled to a controller through link comprises and a transparent touch sensor layer covered by a touch screen made out of transparent material such as glass. The controller further comprises at least one buffer and at least one specialized microprocessor . In present invention the buffer is for temporarily storing auxiliary information such as local zoom button touch counter X and Y coordinates of the point where touch event was detected etc. The purpose of the microprocessor is to compute the locally zoomed area and to re compute locally zoomed area as user s finger moves on the touch screen surface. It should be noted that the buffer and the microprocessor can be combined with the existing buffer s and microprocessor s of controllers used in prior art systems.

A touch screen system comprising the touch screen device and controller may be used in conjunction with a controller user interface unit coupled with the controller via direct link internet web wireless or another connection. It should be noted that often a touch sensor system has only one touch screen device. It should be also noted that controller and controller interface units may be built in to the touch screen device . Separate units and are shown for illustrating a more general example.

The microprocessor may output the combined information of detected touch events to another device such as a central or host computer via lead . It should be understood that the coordinate information passed through the lead is representative only. In addition information may be output in many forms and formats by the computer such as text or graphics on the display device a different display device or monitor a light a bell an initiation or termination of an action and the like. Therefore the information passed through the lead may change based on the purpose of the touch sensor system . Optionally the controller may be located within a monitor or the display device in a separate unit as illustrated or within the computer .

One embodiment of the invention is illustrated using city map application. It should be noted that invention is not limited to city map application. As it will be seen from the description many other applications where user wishes increased accuracy of his touch commands will benefit as well.

The user is able to manipulate map windows create zoom in out move stretch etc. Window with which user is performing such operations is referred to as Active Window AW . Only one window is designated as an active window at a time. shows only one map window MM thus it is also AW by default . When there are more than one map windows on the screen MM and SMs any non active window can be made active by user s touch inside that window. Conversely if a window is active any user s touch of another window will make the first window non active. The active window is highlighted by two small squares. One square is in the upper right corner. It is marked as x . Touching this square will result in closing the active window. The other small square is located in the lower left corner of the AW. It is marked as 0 or 1 2 etc. as will be explained later . The user can change the size of the AW by holding and moving this button. The user can zoom in and zoom out map shown in the AW by pressing Zoom In and Zoom Out buttons and respectively. During Zoom In and Zoom Out operations the center of the map is fixed. Change center location operations are different for the MM and SM. The user can change the location of the center of the MM by touching and holding the surface of the map and moving it into the desired direction. For the SM user can change SM center location by touching its border and moving it to the desired location while holding the touching finger. An SM and said window border are illustrated for example in below.

Assume now that the user wants to see a detailed map of smaller streets near the intersection of Broadway and Canal streets and see the rest of the map visible so that he can easily relate the city landmarks Financial District and Chinatown as two possible examples. In accordance with one embodiment of this invention the user would touch the Local Zoom button to inform the application that he wishes to zoom the AW in this case MM locally. This operation is illustrated in . illustrates a user selecting Local Zoom mode in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The user touches button with his finger and the button changes color. Color change indicates that the next expected operation is touching a location inside the AW where local zoom is desired.

According to one embodiment of the invention the user may enable local zoom for the small active window by touching Local Zoom button and then touching a point inside the map where the local zoom should be enabled. This scenario is illustrated in . illustrates the user enabling local zoom inside a small map window in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Notice that in Local Zoom button is not colored that is because the figure depicts a moment after the user enabled local zoom mode of map at that moment the button became colored and then touched near point inside map thus instructing the application to show a new small map inside map . Window is now the active window.

As can be seen from the description of present embodiment map windows of the application have nested structure. For example SM is inside SM which is inside the main map window . Thus the map windows have tree structure and each window map can be assigned a level in that tree. For example the main map has level 0 the SM map has level 1 SM map has level 2 etc. According to one embodiment of the invention the level of the active window in the tree can be specified by displaying the level number in the colored square located in the lower left corner of the AW. Alternatively the active window level can be highlighted by the intensity of color of squares in the upper right and lower left corners of the active map window. For example for the levels 0 1 2 and 3 the selected color scheme could be white yellow orange red respectively. The maximum number of window levels e.g. three and coloring map mentioned in this embodiment are provided for illustration purposes only. Any other combination of window levels and coloring options is possible.

Let s now refer back to where the only small window is the active window of the application. According to another embodiment of the invention the user can zoom inside that map simply by pressing Zoom In button and zoom out by touching Zoom Out button . illustrates this operation. illustrates user zooming into a local area map in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Referring to notice that user finger touches Zoom In button thus instructing the application to zoom inside the local active map

The user can also move the SM by touching the border of SM by his finger and moving his finger by holding it down. As user finger moves the content inside the SM will change to reflect zoomed in area of new location.

Referring again to we recall that the SM is the AW. Now suppose the user wants to go back to the MM while leaving SM open. This can be easily done as was mentioned before and as illustrated in by user finger touching any point inside the MM . Such touch command informs the application that now MM window is the Active Window. If the user wants to close the SM he would have to make it active by touching any point inside the SM and then touch the colored x square in the upper left corner of the active window SM . The last operation is not illustrated in any of the figures presented in this disclosure as by now that operation should be obvious to the reader who followed explanation of all previously described operations. 

The user may want to open more than one local area maps inside the MM . This can be done in at least one of the following ways. In one embodiment the user will repeat the sequence of the following touch command touch Local Zoom button then touch a point inside MM where local zoom in window is desired. If three SM widows are required the user will repeat the above mentioned sequence of touch commands three times. In another embodiment the system will keep a counter C tracking the number of consecutive touches of Local Zoom button . The user will touch Local Zoom button N times if N small map windows are desired by the user. With the first touch Local Zoom button will change its color with each consecutive touch of Local Zoom button the internal touch counter C will be incremented and the value C 1 will be displayed inside Local Zoom button whenever C 1. Then the user will proceed by touching MM in desired locations. Each touch will generate a new SM window which become the AW by default and will decrement the counter C. As long as C 1 the value of C 1 will be visible inside the Local Zoom button . illustrates this embodiment. Assume the user wanted to have four SM windows inside MM . Thus the user touched Local Zoom button four times. Now C 4 and Local Zoom button message reads Local Zoom 3 indicating that four SM will be generated. Referring to observe that after user finger touches MM twice SM and SM are created. Now C 2 and Local Zoom button message reads Local Zoom 1 indicating that two more SM windows are expected. In another embodiment the user will instruct the application of each additional local area map creation by a voice command. Example of a flow chart illustrating this operation is shown in below.

One application and benefit of the present invention is finding shortest path between two objects selected by the user on the map. This application will be illustrated in the case when user find two objects in the two different local maps SMs as shown in . illustrates the user enabling multiple local zoom maps in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The user will simultaneously touch two selected objects in local zoomed maps and using two fingers. For example the user can zoom in one area of the map where he stays and select his hotel in another zoomed in local map the user can select a different building that he wants to visit or a restaurant he want to go to . By quickly moving his fingers located on two selected objects in two local maps the user will instruct the system to show on the map the shortest drive way from one place to another. Alternatively user can instruct the system to show shorted path by voice command SHOW ME THE SHORTEST PATH or the quickest path saying SHOW ME THE QUICKEST ROUTE or SHOW ME THE QUICKEST ROUTE WITH MINIMUM TRAFFIC CONGESTION . Observe that the system will recognize automatically which objects user is trying to connect because they are selected by his fingers. The same procedure can be repeated to connect more than two objects in the one path.

In another embodiment once user can accurately identify an object of interest in the map he can instruct the system to send alert with the coordinates of the selected object and additional instruction e.g. that he plans to be at the specified location at certain time etc. In another embodiment the user will place his fingers onto easily identifiable objects in two or more localized maps e.g. Thai food restaurants and instruct the system to send a message to his friend s with a suggestion to meet at any of the specified locations and respond within fifteen minutes with their choice. Once recipients receive the message identical application on their computing devices will show map of the area with local zoom in maps around the selected objects so that they can also take advantage of zooming in at one or more locations while seeing the map of the whole area. It can be seen therefore that the present invention greatly improves location based services.

In another embodiment the user can select for example two local area maps touch each local area map with his figure and instruct the system by voice SHOW ME ITALIAN RESTAURANTS . The system will mark and highlight location of Italian Restaurants near each of the specified locations within the boundaries of the corresponding local maps. The user can further instruct the system to get details of all or some of the restaurants he selects by touching them by saying for example WRITE DOWN WORKING HOURS OF EACH SELECTED RESTAURANTS or OPEN HOME WEB PAGE FOR EACH OF THE SELECTED RESTAURANTS IN A SEPARATE BROWSER WINDOW . Example of a flow chart illustrating this operation is shown in below.

In another embodiment of the invention user can locally enlarge text that he is viewing. Assume user is reviewing text and decides to do quick update to the text or wants to select a word or phrase for looking it up in the dictionary. Instead of zooming in the entire text it is useful to provide user with the capability to zoom into a local text a few lines or a sentence so that he can more accurately execute desired touch commands.

According to this embodiment the same procedures as in previous embodiment are used for selecting local zoom mode of operation selecting local area for zooming and for moving locally zoomed area. illustrates Local Zoom Mode of Operation for Text Viewing Application in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. For example if user reading text shown in decides to zoom into a phrase of a few lines he will instruct the system to switch to local zoom mode see and move his finger until desired text is selected for local zooming see . In accordance with this embodiment system switching to local zoom in mode is done in ways similar to the ones described earlier for the map application. Specifically user can press on special Local Zoom button similar to button in but not shown in or . Once system is in the local zoom mode the user will point an area in the text that needs to be locally zoomed in. In accordance with another embodiment the user will select area in the text by placing his finger and then while his finger is in the text he will press local zoom button thus instructing the system to locally enlarge text around the point in the text selected by the user. Alternatively command for switching the system in local zoom mode or local zoom in and local zoom out instructions can be given by voice commands. E.g. user can say SWITCH TO LOCAL ZOOM MODE and then specify area that needs to be locally zoomed in. Or the user can place his finger on the text and say ZOOM IN if he wants to zoom in text around the selected point etc.

Now assuming that the user wants to lookup one of the words or phrases in the selected text in the dictionary or do web search for that word or phrase or wants simply go to web sites associated with the word by the application. By double tapping into selected word user tells the application take this word and place it into the window of the auxiliary application. illustrates Selected Word Search Option in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. For example illustrates user selecting word capacitance . Once the word is placed in the window of auxiliary application the user can type additional words as shown in .

Alternatively double tapping on a word would select a phrase between commas in the selected text. illustrates Selected Phrase Search Option in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. For example illustrates this by showing that double tapping on word capacitance results in selecting the whole corresponding phrase projected capacitance between commas of the selected text. As was mentioned above auxiliary application could be used such as a search engine like Google see in or dictionary or web pages linked to the word or phrase by the application.

Main operations of the embodiment related to map application of this invention are illustrated in flow charts shown in and .

Process begins at by zooming into a first portion of the user content by touching the display screen in a proximity of the first portion using the touch input device while retaining an original zoom size of a first remaining portion of the user content. At a second portion of the user content from the first remaining portion is zoomed into by touching the display screen in a proximity of the second portion using the touch input device while retaining a zoomed in first portion and an original zoom size of a second remaining portion of the of the first remaining portion the original zoom size of the first and the second remaining portions being the same.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

