---

title: Waveguide with ports for near field communication
abstract: A computing device comprises a head that can be docked to a base. The base includes a base transceiver to transmit (or receive) a signal via a first port of a waveguide. The waveguide also includes at least a second port and a third port. The head includes a head transceiver to transmit (or receive) the signal via the waveguide. When the head is in a first position relative to the base, the head transceiver may transmit (or receive) the signal via the second port. When the head is in a second position relative to the base, the head transceiver may receive transmit (or receive) the signal via the third port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538315&OS=09538315&RS=09538315
owner: Dell Products, L.P.
number: 09538315
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150601
---
As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

In short range wireless communication an antenna that is smaller than a wavelength of the carrier signal may be used to transmit the carrier signal. The antenna may produce an electric field a magnetic field etc. However some forms of short range wireless communication may require that the transmitter and receiver be i in close proximity e.g. 10 mm or less ii within a line of sight or both. Such usage restrictions may limit the applications in which short range wireless communication can be used. For example the maximum distance between a transmitter and a receiver may be relatively small e.g. 10 mm or less due to i the low operating power and ii the electromagnetic propagation characteristics at the operating frequency. When designing products that incorporate short range wireless communication such distance limitations may be challenging to overcome particularly when mechanical or design limitations dictate further separation e.g. greater than 10 mm between the transmitter and receiver.

This Summary provides a simplified form of concepts that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features and should therefore not be used for determining or limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In some embodiments a computing device comprises a head that can be docked to a base. The base includes a base transceiver to transmit or receive a signal via a first port of a waveguide. The waveguide also includes at least a second port and a third port. The head includes a head transceiver to transmit or receive the signal via the waveguide. When the head is in a first position relative to the base the head transceiver may transmit or receive the signal via the second port. When the head is in a second position relative to the base the head transceiver may receive transmit or receive the signal via the third port.

For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. personal digital assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

As computing devices such as tablets notebooks wireless phones and the like continue to proliferate many of these devices may be designed using two or more components. For example a computing device such as a 2 in 1 computing device may include two components such as a head and a base. The head component may include a touchscreen display device and may be independently usable as a computing device such as a tablet computer or a wireless phone. In addition attaching also referred to as docking the head to the base may enable the head to access resources that are included in the base such as one or more input devices e.g. keyboard touch pad keypad etc. one or more storage devices e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM other types of memory disk drives other types of storage devices etc. one or more ports e.g. a universal serial bus USB port a serial port a digital video interface DVI port a high definition multimedia interface HDMI port a card reader e.g. for reading a compact flash card a secure digital SD card etc. another type of resource or any combination thereof. In this way the 2 in 1 computing device may be used as two devices e.g. either as a first type of computing device e.g. such as a tablet when using just the head or as a second type of computing device e.g. such as a laptop when the head is docked to the base .

In a conventional 2 in 1 computing device the head may be electrically coupled to the base using electrical contacts that enable the head and base to communicate with each other e.g. to enable the head to access the resources of the base etc. . However having exposed electrical contacts on the head and the base may result in the electrical contacts becoming corroded dirty worn damaged etc. Therefore a 2 in 1 computing device that uses short range wireless communication e.g. 60 GHz near field wireless communication may enable the head to communicate with the base e.g. when the head is docked with the base while avoiding problems caused by the electrical contacts such as corrosion dirt wear damage etc.

A 2 in 1 computing device may be designed to operate in several modes of operation. For example in a tablet mode the head may be decoupled from the base and used as a tablet computing device independent of the base. In an open position the head may be docked with the base such that the head is at an angle e.g. typically at least 5 degrees relative to the base to enable the combined device to operate in a manner similar to a laptop.

In a first closed position the head may be docked with the base such that the display screen of the head is facing the base and not viewable. In this mode the dock may be electronically coupled to external input devices e.g. keyboard mouse etc. and to external display devices e.g. one or more monitors one or more projector s etc. . In the first closed position the resources such as the processors and storage devices of the combined device may be used without using the display screen of the head and without using the input devices e.g. keyboard trackball etc. of the base. In a second closed position the head may be docked with the base such that the display screen of the head is facing away from the base and is viewable. The dock may be electronically coupled to external input devices e.g. keyboard mouse etc. and in some cases to external display devices e.g. one or more monitors one or more projector s etc. .

In the second closed position the resources such as the processors and storage devices in the head and in the base of the combined device may be used along with the display screen of the head. However the input devices e.g. keyboard trackball etc. of the base may not be used. In this mode the display screen of the head may be used by itself e.g. as the sole display device or in conjunction with one or more external display devices e.g. monitors projectors etc. .

When the head is docked to the base short range wireless communication may be used to enable communications between the head and the base. For example a head transmitter receiver referred to hereinafter as a transceiver may be included in the head and a base transceiver may be included in the base. The short range wireless communication may have operational limitations such that communications between the head transceiver and the base transceiver are possible when the head transceiver and the base transceiver are i in close proximity e.g. 10 mm or less and ii within a line of sight. Communications between the head transceiver and the base transceiver may not be possible when the first transceiver and the second transceiver are greater than 10 mm apart or not within a line of sight.

To enable short range wireless communication between a head and a base in a 2 in 1 computing device capable of operating in multiple operational modes one or more waveguides may be used to receive a transmission from a transmitter e.g. a first transceiver and transmit the transmission to a receiver e.g. a second transceiver . A waveguide is a structure that acts as a transmission medium to guide waves such as electromagnetic waves between the first transceiver and the second transceiver. For example the waveguide may vibrate in response to receiving a signal e.g. carrier signal from a transmitter and transmit the vibrations to a receiver. The waveguide may be made from a material such as plastic metal glass wood another type of material or any combination thereof. In some implementations the waveguide may include a particular type of plastic such as polystyrene that has a relatively low propagation loss at transmission frequencies used by the transceivers. The waveguide may include a dielectric material e.g. an electrical insulator e.g. polystyrene or other plastic that can be polarized by an applied electric field. The waveguide may be hollow solid or portions of the waveguide may be hollow.

Thus one or more transceivers and one or more waveguides may be used to enable communications between a head and a base of a 2 in 1 computing device to enable different modes of operating including an open position and one or more closed positions.

The base may include resources such as one or more input devices e.g. a keyboard a touch pad etc. one or more storage devices e.g. random access memory RAM disk drives etc. one or more input output I O ports e.g. a universal serial bus USB port a high definition multimedia interface HDMI port a card reader e.g. for reading a compact flash card a secure digital SD card etc. another type of computing resource or any combination thereof. A portion e.g. one end of the base may include a dock . The dock may be shaped in such a way that one end e.g. bottom of the head may be placed in the dock to couple the head to the base .

When the head is inserted into the dock of the base the head and the base may be capable of contactless communication with each other. When coupled to the base the head may access one or more of the resources of the base . For example the head may receive input from the input devices of the base . The head may display the input received from the base on the touchscreen display device of the head . The head may store data on a storage device of the base . The head may retrieve data stored on a storage device of the base or connected to the base using an I O port and display at least part of the data on the touchscreen display device of the head . Of course other examples of a head and a base may have other I O devices and components.

The base may be communicatively coupled to one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a trackball or other type of input device that may be used in place of or in addition to input devices included in the base . The base may be communicatively coupled to one or more display devices such as a monitor a projector or other type of display device that may be used in place of or in addition to the display device included in the head .

The head may be capable of being physically coupled to the base and later de coupled from the base . The head and the base may operate in multiple modes include a tablet mode e.g. as illustrated in an open position e.g. as illustrated in and a closed position e.g. as illustrated in . In the head may be used as a table device independent of the base .

The transceivers and waveguide may operate at radio frequencies in the extremely high frequency EHF band e.g. between 30 Gigahertz GHz and 300 GHz. For example in a particular embodiment the transceivers may communicate at approximately 60 GHz. In some embodiments the transceivers may be implemented using a technology such as complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . The transceivers may be capable of transmitting and receiving signals with a bandwidth of at least 5 Gigabits per second Gbps . For example a typical configuration may achieve a throughput of between 5 Gbps and 10 Gbps. The transceivers and the waveguide may not make contact with each other. The transmitter component of the transceivers is used to transmit signals and the receiver component of the transceivers is used to receive signals.

Thus one or more waveguides such as the waveguide may be used to transmit and receive communication signals between base transceivers and head transceivers such as between the base transceiver and the head transceiver . Each waveguide may have multiple ports to enable communication signals to be transmitted and received in different operating modes such as the open position and the closed position .

An inner surface of the dock may include an insert . When the head is inserted into the dock the insert may make contact with portions of the head . The insert may be comprised of a polymer such as plastic a metal metal alloy another type of material or any combination thereof.

At least a portion of the outer surface of the dock may be coated with a liner . For example the liner may be a metalized coating that is applied using paint that is infused with nanoparticles. The liner may be designed to keep signals transmitted via the waveguides from leaking and to avoid crosstalk between each of the waveguides . In some implementations the dielectric waveguides may be plated with a highly metallic coating of copper based or aluminum based paint of at least 2 micrometers m thickness to minimize signal loss and improve channel isolation. Sheet resistance between a farthest end of each of the plated waveguides may be less than 1 ohm.

When the base is communicating with the head the base may transmit data to the base transceiver . The base transceiver may receive the data encode the data into a signal e.g. an EHF signal and transmit the signal . The waveguide may receive the signal at the first port and carry the signal to the second port . The head transceiver may receive the signal at the second port convert e.g. decode the signal into the data and send the data to the head .

When the head is communicating with the base the head may transmit the data to the head transceiver . The head transceiver may encode the data into the signal e.g. an EHF signal and transmit the signal . The waveguide may receive the signal at the second port and carry the signal to the first port . The base transceiver may receive the signal at the first port convert e.g. decode the signal into the data and send the data to the base .

When the base is communicating with the head the base may transmit data to the base transceiver . The base transceiver may receive the data encode the data into a signal e.g. approximately 60 Ghz and transmit the signal . The waveguide may receive the signal at the first port and transmit the signal to the third port . The head transceiver may receive the signal at the third port convert e.g. decode the signal into the data and send the data to the head .

When the head is communicating with the base the head may transmit the data to the head transceiver . The head transceiver may encode the data into the signal e.g. approximately 60 Ghz and transmit the signal . The waveguide may receive the signal at the third port and transmit the signal to the first port . The base transceiver may receive the signal at the first port convert e.g. decode the signal into the data and send the data to the base .

The I O devices may each include but are not limited to one or more of a keyboard a keypad a touch pad a mouse a trackball a speaker a microphone a camera another type of input device or any combination thereof. The communication interfaces may include interfaces compatible with wired protocols such as Ethernet high definition media interface HDMI digital video interface DVI Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS digital subscriber line DSL or the like. The communication interfaces compatible with wireless protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system mobile GSM WiFi e.g. 802.11 BlueTooth or the like. The storage devices may include mass storage devices such as disk drives solid state drives SSDs etc.

Processors may be a microprocessor controller a programmable logic device such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware resource operable to provide computing device functionality for the head and the base respectively.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM including dynamic RAM DRAM and static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable memory solid state memory such as flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory. Memory may include one or more memories. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by the computing device including one or more software modules embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware. In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processors to execute and memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processors to execute. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between the processors and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processors and one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between the processors and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processors . As used herein memory do not include purely transitory media such as signals and communication media. As such memory is a form of non transitory computer readable media. As used herein non transitory computer readable media includes one or more of optical storage magnetic storage RAM ROM solid state memory such as flash memory a hard disk drive a floppy drive tape storage a smart card an integrated circuit and so forth.

External display devices may be communicatively coupled to the base via one or more of the communication interfaces e.g. digital video interface DVI high definition media interface HDMI etc. . The display devices may include monitors projectors or other types of display devices. External input devices may be communicatively coupled to the base via one or more of the communication interfaces e.g. universal serial bus USB etc. . The input devices may include a keyboard a mouse a trackball a touch input device a microphone e.g. audio input device a camera e.g. video input device or other type of input device.

Software modules include one or more of applications bytecode computer programs executable files computer executable instructions program modules code expressed as source code in a high level programming language such as C C Perl or other a low level programming code such as machine code etc. An example software module is a basic input output system BIOS file. A software module may include an application programming interface API a dynamic link library DLL file an executable e.g. .exe file firmware and so forth.

Processes described herein may be illustrated as a collection of blocks in a logical flow graph which represent a sequence of operations that can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In the context of software the blocks represent computer executable instructions that are executable by one or more processors to perform the recited operations. The order in which the operations are described or depicted in the flow graph is not intended to be construed as a limitation. Also one or more of the described blocks may be omitted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated herein in the Drawings and described in the Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

