---

title: Multi-point laser ignition device
abstract: A multi-point laser device comprising a plurality of optical pumping sources. Each optical pumping source is configured to create pumping excitation energy along a corresponding optical path directed through a high-reflectivity mirror and into substantially different locations within the laser media thereby producing atomic optical emissions at substantially different locations within the laser media and directed along a corresponding optical path of the optical pumping source. An output coupler and one or more output lenses are configured to produce a plurality of lasing events at substantially different times, locations or a combination thereof from the multiple atomic optical emissions produced at substantially different locations within the laser media. The laser media is a single continuous media, preferably grown on a single substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09548585&OS=09548585&RS=09548585
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09548585
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150716
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship between the inventors and the U.S. Department of Energy operators of the National Energy Technology Laboratory NETL .

The present invention relates to a multi point laser device capable of producing a plurality of lasing events at substantially different times locations or a combination thereof using the same laser media and multiple optical pumping sources.

The efficient operation of engines is essential for reducing transportation and energy costs fuel consumption and harmful emissions. The lean burn operation of engines where the production of NOx may be significantly reduced is instrumental in efficient operation however incomplete mixing can lead to unnecessary misfire or incomplete burning when the ignition spark occurs and fails to ignite or fully ignite the mixture properly or not at all due to local mix heterogeneity. As every engine has a slightly different intake and fuel introduction design manufactures are forced to keep lean operation closer to stoichiometry to stay away from the lean limit to avoid misfires. Therefore there is a need in the art to alieve issues with misfires in a lean burn engine.

Described herein is a multi point laser device comprising a plurality of optical pumping sources a high reflectivity mirror a laser media a passive q switch media an output coupler and one or more output lenses. Each optical pumping source having a corresponding optical path. The high reflectivity mirror the laser media the output coupler an output lens from the one or more output lenses are all positioned along each optical path. The passive q switch is positioned along at least one optical path. The high reflectivity mirror is positioned between and optically connected to each optical pumping source and the laser media along each optical path. The laser media is positioned between and optically connected to the high reflectivity mirror and the output coupler media along each optical path. The passive q switch media is positioned between and optically connected to the laser media and the output coupler along at least one optical path. The output coupler is positioned between and optically connected to the laser media and an output lens from the one or more output lenses along each optical path.

Each optical pumping source is configured to create a pumping excitation energy. The laser media is made of a material that emits an atomic optical emission when exposed to the pumping excitation energy. The high reflectivity mirror is substantially reflective to the atomic optical emission of the laser media and substantially transparent to the pumping excitation energy. Each optical pumping source is configured to create pumping excitation energy along a corresponding optical path directed through the high reflectivity mirror and into the laser media at substantially different locations within the laser media thereby producing atomic optical emissions at substantially different locations within the laser media and directed along its corresponding optical path of the optical pumping source. The output coupler and one or more output lenses are configured to produce a plurality of lasing events at substantially different times locations or a combination thereof from the multiple atomic optical emissions produced at substantially different locations within the laser media. The laser media is a single continuous media having a single inseparable structure preferably grown on a single substrate. Preferably a control system is connected to and configured to control the plurality of optical pumping sources either in concert or individually.

The atomic optical emissions produced by excitation of the laser media by pumping excitation energy from the plurality of pumping sources will reflect back and forth between the high reflectivity mirror and either the output coupler or the passive q switch material along a corresponding optical path . The atomic optical emissions will traverse the laser media and interact with excited atoms preferably Nd within the laser media inducing stimulated atomic optical emissions where the original photons from the atomic optical emissions cause the decay of an excited state at the same energy. The stimulated event produces light of the same wavelength about 1 064 nm for a Nd YAG laser media phase and in the same direction as the stimulating photon. At substantially the same time the passive q switch media allows a certain percentage of the incident photons to pass through unimpeded. The balance of the certain percentage of photons is absorbed within the passive q switch media inducing excited states. When the material of the passive q switch media is in an excited state it is substantially transparent to the atomic optical emission of the laser media . Therefore as more of the atomic optical emissions are absorbed it effectively makes the passive q switch media more and more transparent for a short time. This allows more atomic optical emissions to pass through and return producing more stimulated atomic optical emissions within the laser media .

This process of increasing the transparency of the passive q switch media allows a large number of excited states to build up within the laser media until the passive Q switch media reaches a threshold transparency. The passive q switch media begins to increase transparency exponentially and the number of photons induced from the atomic optical emissions within the laser cavity high reflectivity mirror laser media passive q switch media and output coupler also grows exponentially. At this point the passive q switch media is virtually clear of losses and large scale lasing occurs depleting the excited states in the laser media within a few round trips. The lasing energy produced is a large number of photons in a very short time pulse width. The lasing energy is directed through the one or more output lenses the single output lens in the embodiment shown in . The single output lens focuses the lasing energy into a focal point . In one embodiment the single output lens focuses the lasing energy down to a sufficiently small focal point preferably generating a power density or photon flux density of about 1 10W cmor greater so as to create a spark.

As used herein the term optically connected shall refer to any means of optically transferring between either directly or through any number of intermediate components.

As used herein the term substantially transparent shall refer to at least a transparency that is not normally present unless the specifically designed for by one skilled in the art. More preferably substantially transparent is a majority of the energy passing through. More preferably substantially transparent allows for example at least 51 60 70 80 90 95 or 99 of the specified energy to pass through with preference given to the higher transmission percentages. As used herein substantially transparent is only specific to the transmission of light without regard to the alteration of that light for example phase and direction. Therefore substantially transparent as used herein shall also include translucent material. Transparent material is preferred as described herein as translucent material may cause light to deviate from a path along a corresponding optical path and away from the laser device.

As used herein the term substantially reflective shall refer to at least a reflectivity that is not normally present unless the specifically designed for by one skilled in the art. More preferably substantially reflective is at least a majority of the energy reflecting. More preferably substantially reflective for example reflects at least 51 60 70 80 90 95 or 99 of the specified energy with preference given to the higher reflectivity percentages. As used herein substantially reflective is only specific to the reflection of light without regard to any other alteration of that light for example phase.

As used herein the term substantially different times shall refer to at least a time difference that is not normally present unless the specifically designed for by one skilled in the art. More preferably substantially different time is for example at least a difference of 1 nanosecond 10 nanoseconds 100 nanoseconds or 1 000 nanoseconds with preference given to the longer times.

As used herein the term substantially the same time shall refer to a time closeness that is not normally present unless the specifically designed for by one skilled in the art. More preferably substantially the same time is for example no more than 10 000 microseconds 1 000 microseconds or 100 microseconds with preference given to the shorter times.

As used herein the term substantially different locations shall refer to at least a distance that is not normally present unless the specifically designed for by one skilled in the art. More preferably substantially different locations is a separation for example a separation of at least 1 millimeter 100 millimeter or 1 centimeter with preference given to the longer distance.

As used herein the term substantially the same location shall refer to a closeness that is not normally present unless the specifically designed for by one skilled in the art. More preferably substantially the same location is for example no further than 1 centimeter 100 millimeter or 1 millimeter with preference given to the shorter distance.

Each optical pumping source creates a pumping excitation energy having low peak power preferably less than 1 000 peak Watts more preferably about 100 1 000 Watts depending on the material of the laser media . The pumping excitation energy needs to be sufficient enough to excite the laser media at a greater rate than lost from subsequent stimulated atomic optical emissions and or natural decay. The pumping excitation energy may be a single pulse a continuous stream or a series of pulses. In one embodiment at least some of the plurality of optical pumping sources is a laser diode providing optical pumping excitation energy in the form of a single square wave pulse having a low power preferably less than 1 000 peak Watts and a time duration of tens to several hundred microseconds.

In a preferred embodiment at least some of the plurality of optical pumping sources are one or more vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSEL . In this embodiment the VCSELs are configured in a planar array and are individually activated as needed to provide the required pumping excitation energy. The VCSELs are configured to emit light at a wavelength which excites the ions in the laser media as described above. Preferably each VCSEL emits 100 milliwatts whereby 1 000 VCSELs in a close packed array are activated to provide a 100 watt pumping excitation energy. The array of VCSELs preferably emits parallel beams. Preferably one or more lenses are used to combine the beams from the VCSELs into a plurality of beams directed into the laser media as described herein.

Each optical pumping source is optically connected to the laser media through the high reflectivity mirror . Each optical pumping source is positioned along a corresponding optical path and produces a pumping excitation energy which is directed to a substantially different location within the laser media .

In one embodiment the optical pumping sources are controlled by the control system together in concert whereby the pumping excitation is produced at the substantially the same time by each optical pumping source and in concert without individual control. In an alternate embodiment the plurality of optical pumping sources is controlled by the control system individually. Individually controlling each optical pumping source may be preferable for example in embodiments whereby it is desired to produce multiple lasing events occurring at substantially different times. In one preferred embodiment a high energy lasing is followed later by one or more lower energy lasing events which is preferably used to maintain a spark for a longer time for enhanced combustion in an engine. In a preferred embodiment each optical pumping source is configured to produce pumping excitation energy passing along parallel optical paths .

The high reflectivity mirror is substantially reflective to the atomic optical emissions of the laser media . The high reflectivity mirror is substantially transparent to the pumping excitation energy. The high reflectivity mirror allows pumping excitation energy emitted from the plurality of optical pumping sources in the coaxial pumping configuration to pass through while reflecting the intracavity atomic optical emissions of the laser media . Preferably the high reflectivity mirror comprises doped or undoped YAG Co doped YAG fused silica sapphire or a combination thereof preferably further comprising one or more thin film optical coatings deposited onto one face.

Preferably the high reflectivity mirror is a substantially transparent optical media such as YAG fused silica or sapphire having a coating that is substantially reflective to the atomic optical emission of the laser media and that is substantially transparent to the pumping excitation energy. More preferably the high reflectivity mirror is fused silica having a coating that is substantially reflective to the atomic optical emission of the laser media and that is substantially transparent to the pumping excitation energy. In one embodiment the high reflectivity mirror comprises a plurality of coatings preferably made of Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium oxides thereof fluorides thereof or combinations thereof. More preferably the coatings preferably comprise materials with various indices of refraction for example as AlO TaO SiO TiO CaF ZrO BeO MgF LaFand AlFor combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the high reflectivity mirror is deposited as an optical coating onto the face of the laser media . In another embodiment the high reflectivity mirror material has a large thickness where one side is bonded directly to the laser media and the other side has the optical coating deposited directly on to it to define the optical cavity. By varying the thickness of the high reflectivity mirror material one can tune the length of the optical cavity thereby removing heat that the pumping excitation energy deposits into the face of the laser media . When the high reflectivity mirror material has a significant thickness between the laser media and the high reflectivity optical coating optical distortions caused by thermal lensing within the laser are reduced. The length of the cavity dictates the output pulsewidth and is preferably tuned to provide a pulsewidth that is most appropriate for a particular application.

The laser media is made of a material that emits an atomic optical emission when exposed to the pumping excitation energy. The laser media is preferably made of one of the materials described in Koechner W. Bass M. Solid State Lasers A Graduate Text Springer New York 2003 hereby fully incorporated by reference. The laser media is generally a host material that is doped. The host materials are preferably glasses or crystals of oxides garnets vanadates fluorides or a combination thereof. The Glasses are preferably doped with Nd Er or Yb. Oxides such as sapphire are preferably doped with Ti. The Garnets are preferably Yttrium Aluminum Garnet Y3Al5O12 YAG Gadolinium Gallium Garnet GdGaO GGG and Gadolinium Scandium Aluminum Garnet GdScAlO GSGG and are preferably doped with rare earths such as Nd Tm Er Ho Yb. The Vanadates or Yttrium Orthovanadate YVO4 are preferably doped with Nd. The Fluorides or Yttrium Fluoride YLiF4 are preferably doped with Nd. The laser media is preferably Nd YAG neodymium doped yttrium aluminium garnet Nd Glass neodymium doped glass Nd YLF neodymium doped yttrium lithium fluoride Nd YVO4 Yttrium Vanadate Er Glass Erbium doped glass Yb YAG ytterbium doped yttrium aluminium garnet Alexandrite Ti Sapphire Titanium sapphire or a combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment the laser media is Nd YAG having about 0.5 atomic weight of Nd which will emit an atomic optical emission at about 1 064 nm. Preferably one or more coatings are used to reduce optical thermal or a combination thereof stresses in the laser media .

The dopant level of the laser media is preferably low to improve performance. Lowering the dopant concentration affects the overall output by improving the beam overlap efficiency side pumped improving the penetration depth end pumped improving the absorption depth of the optical pumping excitation energy reducing thermal lensing losses and reducing losses due to ASE Amplified Spontaneous Emission . This leads to a more uniform pumped gain profile as well as more uniformly distributed thermal stresses which lessen the effects of thermal lensing. The reduction of dopant concentration lowers the gain of the material slightly but offers larger energy storage capacity in return.

Preferably the laser media is grown together and coexists with the passive q switch media the laser media . In one such preferred embodiment the laser media comprises CR YAG Nd YAG or a combination thereof positioned between a first undoped YAG layer coating and a second undoped YAG layer coating along each optical path thereby forming one uninterrupted material comprising the laser media and the passive q switch media coexisting together.

The passive q switch media is made of a material with a variable attenuation which is reduced after optical stimulation from the lasing energy. The passive q switch media preferably comprises Li F or Cr YAG. The passive q switch media preferably comprises Cr YAG chromium doped yttrium aluminum garnet when the lasing species is Nd having enough Cr such that the small signal transmission of the atomic optical emission is in the range of 10 60 . In a preferred embodiment the laser media is grown together with the passive q switch media .

The output coupler is optically connected to the one or more output lenses the single output lens in along the each optical path . The output coupler substantially reflects the atomic optical emission of the laser media . Preferably the output coupler is fused silica sapphire undoped YAG or a combination thereof preferably further comprising a plurality of optical coatings deposited onto one face preferably made of Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium oxides thereof fluorides thereof or combinations thereof. More preferably the coatings preferably comprise materials with various indices of refraction for example as AlO TaO SiO TiO CaF ZrO BeO MgF LaFand AlFor combinations thereof. In the alternative the output coupler is another optical glass that is substantially transparent to the atomic optical emission of the laser media has a high optical damage threshold and can receive an appropriate substantially reflective coating.

In one embodiment the output coupler is deposited as an optical coating onto the face of either the laser media to define the optical cavity. In another embodiment the output coupler material has a large thickness where one side is bonded directly to the laser media and the other side has the optical coating deposited directly on to its opposing face to define the optical cavity. The thickness of the partially reflecting mirror material is preferably varied to tune the length of the optical cavity and or to help remove heat that the pumping excitation energy deposits into the laser media . When the output coupler material has a significant thickness it reduces optical distortions caused by thermal lensing within the laser. The output coupler material preferably does not interact with either the pumping excitation energy or the atomic optical emissions of the laser media and is preferably used as a heat transfer media to reduce heat concentrations within the laser media or passive q switch media . The length of the cavity dictates the output pulse width and is preferably tuned to provide a pulse width that is most appropriate for the particular application.

The one or more output lenses which in this embodiment is the single output lens focuses the lasing energy produced by the laser cavity high reflectivity mirror laser media passive q switch media and output coupler . In the preferred embodiment the one or more output lenses are each a plano convex or bi convex lens preferably having a focal length of about 1 5 centimeters. Preferably the one or more output lenses include fused silica sapphire undoped YAG or some other material that is substantially transparent to the lasing energy has an appropriate index of refraction and has a high optical damage threshold. In another embodiment the one or more output lenses include Bi convex lens. In another embodiment the one or more output lenses is a best form lens where each surface has a different radius of curvature selected to optimize the focal point size. In another embodiment the one or more output lenses is a plano convex lens where the curved surface is aspherical designed to optimize the focal point size at the lasing wavelength. Preferably the one or more output lenses include anti reflection coatings.

Any number of output lenses may be used include a single lens as shown in a lens for each optical path as shown in or a combination thereof. Furthermore if desirable one or more optical paths may pass through a plurality of output lenses .

Each optical path represents the optical path of the pumping energy from a corresponding optical pumping source to the laser media and then the resulting lasing energy produced by the depletion of the excited states in the laser media after the production of atomic optical emissions. As described herein the resulting lasing energy produced by the depletion of the excited states in the laser media passes at least through the output coupler and then to an output lens from the one or more output lenses a single output lens as depicted in . As known by one skilled in the art the optical path does not include or depict the atomic optical emissions produced by the high reflectivity mirror the reflection of atomic optical emissions by the high reflectivity mirror or any absorption by reflections off or transmission through the q switch .

The control system is connected to and configured to control the plurality of optical pumping sources . Each optical pumping source is connected to the control system via one or more connections . The one or more connections are any means of connecting the control system to each optical pumping source so that the control system may control the plurality of optical pumping sources as described herein. Preferably the one or more connections include but are not limited to wires optical fibers electronic wires busses wireless communications systems and other means of communicating. In one embodiment the control system includes a power supply to power each optical pumping source and is connected to supply power each optical pumping source and thereby controls the plurality of optical pumping sources .

The control system preferably comprises a processor computer application specific integrated controller ASIC microcontroller CPU or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the interlock control system is an AMEGA128 as sold by ATMEL CORPORATION.

Each optical pumping source is configured to produce pumping excitation energy directed through the high reflectivity mirror and into the laser media along its corresponding optical path. The plurality of optical pumping sources produces a pumping excitation energy which substantially passes through the high reflectivity mirror and into the laser media . In response to the pumping excitation energy from the plurality of optical pumping sources the laser media emits atomic optical emissions in various directions. The atomic optical emissions emanating from the laser media towards the one or more optical sources will be substantially reflected by the high reflectivity mirror . The atomic optical emissions emanating from the laser media reaching the passive q switch media will be absorbed by the passive q switch media until the passive q switch media becomes substantially transparent to the atomic optical emissions. Once the passive q switch media becomes substantially transparent to the atomic optical emissions the atomic optical emissions is focused by one of the plurality of output lenses the first output lens the second output lens the third output lens and the fourth output lens preferably in a manner to produce one or more sparks.

The lasing energy produced in the processes described above is directed through an output lens from the plurality of output lenses the first output lens the second output lens the third output lens and the fourth output lens . The plurality of output lenses the first output lens the second output lens the third output lens and the fourth output lens focuses the lasing energy preferably one or more of the plurality of output lenses is focused down to a sufficiently small focal point generating a power density or photon flux density of about 1 10W cmor greater so as to create a spark. The first output lens the second output lens the third output lens and the fourth output lens produces a corresponding first focal point second focal point third focal point and fourth focal point . As emphasized by the third focal point in the focal points are each at substantially different locations including but not limited to different distances from the output coupler . This embodiment is preferred for engine combustion particularly lean burning combustion where the generation of multiple focal points preferably one or more sparks provides a more reliable ignition. Preferably the optical pumping sources are each configured to produce pumping excitation energy parallel to each other along the optical paths from each optical pumping source passing through the high reflectivity mirror and into the laser media .

The lasing energy produced in the processes described above is directed through the steering wedge or concave optic . The steering wedge or concave optic focuses the lasing energy preferably to produce at least one sufficiently small focal point generating a power density or photon flux density of about 1 10W cmor greater so as to create a spark. The steering wedge or concave optic shown in as one exemplary embodiment produces a first focal point second focal point third focal point and fourth focal point . In the alternative any number of focal points may be created. This embodiment is preferred for engine combustion particularly lean burning combustion where the generation of multiple focal points preferably one or more sparks provides a more reliable ignition.

In the embodiment depicted in the passive q switch media passive q switch media is positioned along at least one but not all of said optical paths whereby a portion of pumping excitation energy and atomic optical emissions produced by the laser media may pass from the laser media to the output coupler without passing through the passive q switch media . This embodiment is preferred in some embodiments as the optical paths not passing through the passive q switch media will provide a continuous but lower power output unobstructed by the passive q switch media . The continuous but lower power output is preferably used to prolong a spark or plasma production.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

