---

title: Electronic device including flexible display
abstract: An electronic device is provided including: a flexible display; a first housing member; a second housing member; a hinge module coupled to the first housing member and the second housing member; and a support body disposed between the flexible display and the first and second housing members, wherein the second housing member is adapted to pivot about the hinge module relative to the first housing member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557771&OS=09557771&RS=09557771
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09557771
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150609
---
The present application is related to and claims priority from and the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0070813 filed on Jun. 11 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to an electronic device having a flexible display and more specifically to an internal structure of an electronic device that can receive a bent portion of a flexible display when the flexible display is bent.

With the development of electronic technologies various types of display devices have been developed. In particular display devices such as TVs PCs lap top computers tablet PCs mobile phones MP3 players and the like have been widely used in most homes.

Recently in order to meet user demand for a variety of new functions efforts have been made to develop new types of display devices. For example there is a flexible display. The flexible display refers to a display device that may be deformed like paper as opposed to the generally used flat panel displays.

The flexible display device may be used for various applications because the flexible display device can be bent and deformed under the force applied by a user. For example the flexible display device may be implemented as a portable device such as a mobile phone a tablet PC an electronic picture frame a PDA an MP3 player or the like.

According to aspects of the disclosure an electronic device is provided comprising a flexible display a first housing member a second housing member a hinge module coupled to the first housing member and the second housing member and a support body disposed between the flexible display and the first and second housing members wherein the second housing member is adapted to pivot about the hinge module relative to the first housing member.

Hereinafter the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present disclosure may have various embodiments and modifications and changes may be made therein. Therefore the present invention disclosure will be described in detail with reference to particular embodiments shown in the accompanying drawings. However it should be understood that there is no intent to limit the present disclosure to the particular forms and the present disclosure should be construed to cover all modifications equivalents and or alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. In describing the drawings similar elements are designated by similar reference numerals.

As used in the present disclosure the expression include or may include or can include refers to the existence of a corresponding function operation or constituent element and does not limit one or more additional functions operations or constituent elements. Further as used in the present disclosure the term such as include or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

As used in the present disclosure the expression and or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B or at least one of A and B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

While expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second as used in the present disclosure may modify various constituent elements such constituent elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding constituent elements. The above expressions may be used merely for the purpose of distinguishing a constituent element from other constituent elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both are user devices. For example a first constituent element may be termed a second constituent element and likewise a second constituent element may also be termed a first constituent element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

When a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to any other component it should be understood that the component may be directly connected or accessed to the other component but another new component may also be interposed between them. Contrarily when a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to any other component it should be understood that there is no new component between the component and the other component.

The terms as used in various embodiments of the present invention disclosure are merely for the purpose of describing particular embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical terms and scientific terms have the same meaning as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

Herein the term color blind is used to refer to a person with any color vision deficiency. Herein correcting a color blind condition or like phrase refers to improving the ability of the person to see a colored object or to distinguish between objects of different colors.

In this disclosure an electronic device may be a device that involves a communication function. For example an electronic device may be a smart phone a tablet PC Personal Computer a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a PDA Personal Digital Assistant a PMP Portable Multimedia Player an MP3 player a portable medical device a digital camera or a wearable device e.g. an HMD Head Mounted Device such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace electronic tattoos an electronic appcessory or a smart watch .

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be a smart home appliance that involves a communication function. For example an electronic device may be a TV a DVD Digital Video Disk player audio equipment a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV Google TV etc. a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be a medical device e.g. MRA Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRI Magnetic Resonance Imaging CT Computed Tomography ultrasonography etc. a navigation device a GPS Global Positioning System receiver an EDR Event Data Recorder an FDR Flight Data Recorder a car infotainment device electronic equipment for ship e.g. a marine navigation system a gyrocompass etc. avionics security equipment or an industrial or home robot robot an automatic teller machine of financial institutions or point of sales of stores.

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be furniture or part of a building or construction having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a wave meter etc. . An electronic device disclosed herein may be one of the above mentioned devices or any combination thereof. Further the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It is noted that the above mentioned electronic devices are exemplary only and not to be considered as a limitation of this disclosure.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be discussed with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term a user as used in various embodiments may refer to any person who uses an electronic device or any other device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

The bus may be a circuit designed for connecting the above discussed elements and communicating data e.g. a control message between such elements.

The processor may receive commands from the other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module etc. through the bus interpret the received commands and perform the arithmetic or data processing based on the interpreted commands.

The memory may store therein commands or data received from or created at the processor or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module etc. . The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and an application . Each of the programming modules may be composed of software firmware hardware and any combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory etc. used for performing operations or functions of the other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application . Additionally the kernel may offer an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application to access control or manage individual elements of the electronic device .

The middleware may perform intermediation by which the API or the application communicates with the kernel to transmit or receive data. Additionally in connection with task requests received from the applications the middleware may perform a control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for the task request by using technique such as assigning the priority for using a system resource of the electronic device e.g. the bus the processor or the memory etc. to at least one of the applications .

The API which is an interface for allowing the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. a command for a file control a window control an image processing a text control and the like.

According to embodiments the application may include an SMS MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring quantity of motion or blood sugar an environment information application e.g. an application for offering information about atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature etc. and the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with an exchange of information between the electronic device and any external electronic device e.g. an external electronic device . This type application may include a notification relay application for delivering specific information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function to deliver notification information created at any other application of the electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application the email application the health care application or the environment information application etc. to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device and offer it to a user. The device management application may manage e.g. install remove or update a certain function a turn on turn off of an external electronic device or some components thereof or an adjustment of brightness or resolution of a display of any external electronic device communicating with the electronic device a certain application operating at such an external electronic device or a certain service e.g. a call service or a message service offered by such an external electronic device.

According to embodiments the application may include a specific application specified depending on attributes e.g. a type of an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example in case an external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include a specific application associated with a play of music. Similarly in case an external electronic device is a portable medical device the application may include a specific application associated with a health care. In an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application assigned to the electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device e.g. the server or the electronic device .

The input output interface may deliver commands or data entered by a user through an input output unit e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module via the bus . For example the input output interface may offer data about a user s touch entered through the touch screen to the processor . Also through the input output unit e.g. a speaker or a display the input output interface may output commands or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module via the bus . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to a user through the speaker.

The display may display thereon various types of information e.g. multimedia data text data etc. to a user.

The communication interface may perform a communication between the electronic device and any external electronic device e.g. the electronic device of the server . For example the communication interface may communicate with any external device by being connected with a network through a wired or wireless communication. A wireless communication may include but not limited to at least one of WiFi Wireless Fidelity BT Bluetooth NFC Near Field Communication GPS Global Positioning System or a cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM etc. . A wired communication may include but not limited to at least one of USB Universal Serial Bus HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface RS 232 Recommended Standard 232 or POTS Plain Old Telephone Service .

According to an embodiment the network may be a communication network which may include at least one of a computer network an internet an internet of things or a telephone network. According to an embodiment a protocol e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol for a communication between the electronic device and any external device may be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

The application control module may process at least part of information obtained from the other elements e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface or the communication interface etc. and then offer it to a user in various ways. For example the application control module may recognize information about access components equipped in the electronic device store such information in the memory and execute the application on the basis of such information.

The AP may drive an operating system or applications control a plurality of hardware or software components connected thereto and also perform processing and operation for various data including multimedia data. The AP may be formed of system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may perform data communication with any other electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server connected to the electronic device e.g. the electronic device through the network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include therein a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and an RF Radio Frequency module .

The cellular module may support a voice call a video call a message service an internet service or the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM etc. . Additionally the cellular module may perform identification and authentication of the electronic device in the communication network using the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least part of functions the AP can provide. For example the cellular module may perform at least part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . Additionally the cellular module may be formed of SoC for example. Although some elements such as the cellular module e.g. the CP the memory or the power management module are shown as separate elements being different from the AP in the AP may be formed to have at least part e.g. the cellular module of the above elements in an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module e.g. the CP may load commands or data received from a nonvolatile memory connected thereto or from at least one of the other elements into a volatile memory to process them. Additionally the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or created at one or more of the other elements in the nonvolatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data transmitted or received therethrough. Although shows the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as different blocks at least part of them may be contained in a single IC Integrated Circuit chip or a single IC package in an embodiment. For example at least part e.g. the CP corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module of respective processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be formed as a single SoC.

The RF module may transmit and receive data e.g. RF signals or any other electric signals. Although not shown the RF module may include a transceiver a PAM Power Amp Module a frequency filter an LNA Low Noise Amplifier or the like. Also the RF module may include any component e.g. a wire or a conductor for transmission of electromagnetic waves in a free air space. Although shows that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share the RF module at least one of them may perform transmission and reception of RF signals through a separate RF module in an embodiment.

The SIM card   to  N may be a specific card formed of SIM and may be inserted into a slot   to  N formed at a certain place of the electronic device. The SIM card   to  N may contain therein an ICCID Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier or an IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory and an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. DRAM Dynamic RAM SRAM Static RAM SDRAM Synchronous DRAM etc. or a nonvolatile memory e.g. OTPROM One Time Programmable ROM PROM Programmable ROM EPROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory etc. .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may have the form of an SSD Solid State Drive . The external memory may include a flash drive e.g. CF Compact Flash SD Secure Digital Micro SD Micro Secure Digital Mini SD Mini Secure Digital xD eXtreme Digital memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure physical quantity or sense an operating status of the electronic device and then convert measured or sensed information into electric signals. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. RGB Red Green Blue sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a UV ultraviolet sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include e.g. an E nose sensor not shown an EMG electromyography sensor not shown an EEG electroencephalogram sensor not shown an ECG electrocardiogram sensor not shown an IR infrared sensor not shown an iris scan sensor not shown or a finger scan sensor not shown . Also the sensor module may include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors equipped therein.

The input unit may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input in a manner of capacitive type resistive type infrared type or ultrasonic type. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of a capacitive type a physical contact or proximity may be recognized. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may offer a tactile feedback to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be formed in the same or similar manner as receiving a touch input or by using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit is a specific device capable of identifying data by sensing sound waves with a microphone in the electronic device through an input tool that generates ultrasonic signals thus allowing wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from any external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto through the communication module .

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram or a projector . The panel may be for example LCD Liquid Crystal Display AM OLED Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode or the like. The panel may have a flexible transparent or wearable form. The panel may be formed of a single module with the touch panel . The hologram may show a stereoscopic image in the air using interference of light. The projector may project an image onto a screen which may be located at the inside or outside of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram and the projector .

The interface may include for example an HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface a USB Universal Serial Bus an optical interface or a D sub D subminiature . The interface may be contained for example in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example an MHL Mobile High definition Link interface an SD Secure Digital card MMC Multi Media Card interface or an IrDA Infrared Data Association interface.

The audio module may perform a conversion between sounds and electric signals. At least part of the audio module may be contained for example in the input output interface shown in . The audio module may process sound information inputted or outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of obtaining still images and moving images. According to an embodiment the camera module may include at least one image sensor e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an ISP Image Signal Processor not shown or a flash e.g. LED or xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage electric power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a PMIC Power Management Integrated Circuit a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be formed for example of an IC chip or SoC. Charging may be performed in a wired or wireless manner. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent overvoltage or overcurrent from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may have a charger IC used for at least one of wired and wireless charging types. A wireless charging type may include for example a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type or an electromagnetic type. Any additional circuit for a wireless charging may be further used such as a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier.

The battery gauge may measure the residual amount of the battery and a voltage current or temperature in a charging process. The battery may store or create electric power therein and supply electric power to the electronic device . The battery may be for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may show thereon a current status e.g. a booting status a message status or a recharging status of the electronic device or of its part e.g. the AP . The motor may convert an electric signal into a mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a specific processor e.g. GPU for supporting a mobile TV. This processor may process media data that comply with standards of DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DVB Digital Video Broadcasting or media flow.

Each of the above discussed elements of the electronic device disclosed herein may be formed of one or more components and its name may be varied according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device disclosed herein may be formed of at least one of the above discussed elements without some elements or with additional other elements. Some of the elements may be integrated into a single entity that still performs the same functions as those of such elements before integrated.

The term module used in this disclosure may refer to a certain unit that includes one of hardware software and firmware or any combination thereof. The module may be interchangeably used with unit logic logical block component or circuit for example. The module may be the minimum unit or part thereof which performs one or more particular functions. The module may be formed mechanically or electronically. For example the module disclosed herein may include at least one of ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit chip FPGAs Field Programmable Gate Arrays and programmable logic device which have been known or are to be developed.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a first housing a second housing and a hinge module that interconnects the first and second housings to allow the same to be opened or closed with respect to each other in a folding manner. The hinge module is connected to the first and second housings such that the second housing rotates between preset first and second locations with respect to the first housing. The first location may refer to a state in which a flexible display is folded and the second location may refer to a state in which the flexible display is unfolded to form a flat surface.

While the first and second housings are unfolded away from each other one surface of the first housing and one surface of the second housing may form a flat surface. The electronic device may further include a display unit and a support body for supporting the display unit. The display unit may be disposed on the first and second housings and may be exposed to the outside. The display unit may be exposed to the outside while the first and second housings are unfolded away from each other but may be received in the interior of the electronic device while the first and second housings are folded toward each other. The support body may be disposed such that the display unit is located on one surface thereof and the first and second housings are located on the opposite surface thereof thereby supporting the display unit.

The support body may be connected to the first and second housings. The support body may be mounted to the first and second housings to rotate and move in a predetermined range of angles and lengths.

The display unit may be a flexible display a portion of which can be continuously bent in the process in which the first and second housings are folded toward each other.

The support body may include a resilient member. When the first and second housings are folded toward each other the display unit which is a flexible display may form a bent portion that is continuously bent. The resilient member of the support body may be bent to support the bent portion while surrounding the bent portion. The support body may be continuously bent to correspond to the bent portion of the resilient member. The resilient member may be a plate shaped member that has a flexible resilience and a restoring force that maintains the flatness through the resilience.

While the first and second housings are open with respect to each other e.g. are unfolded away from each other the support body may be unfolded to be flat. When the support body is unfolded the resilient member may also be unfolded. The support body while being unfolded may support the rear surface of the display unit.

Hereinafter specific embodiments among the various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described.

The electronic device according to the first embodiment of the present disclosure includes a first housing member a second housing member and a hinge module . The hinge module may include a support frame that makes up a longitudinal body of the hinge module .

The first housing member and the second housing member may pivot toward each other about the hinge module . A flexible display may be located on a surface of the first and second housing members.

The first housing member may include an inner housing member brought into contact with a portion of the rear surface of the flexible display and an outer housing member forming the peripheral region of the first housing member . The second housing member may also include an inner housing member brought into contact with a portion of the rear surface of the flexible display and an outer housing member forming the peripheral region of the second housing member .

As illustrated in the support frame may include a central support formed in the longitudinal direction of the support frame to protrude toward the flexible display curved slide surfaces formed on opposite end portions thereof which have a groove shape of a predetermined curvature and step portions each having a surface extending from each curved slide surface toward the outside of the support frame .

The electronic device includes support bodies each being disposed such that the flexible display is located on one surface thereof and the first or second housing member is located on the opposite surface thereof. The support bodies may support the flexible display .

The support bodies may be coupled at one end portion thereof to the first housing member and the second housing member respectively.

The first and second housing members may be coupled to the hinge module and may be arranged to pivot towards or away from one another.

Each of the support bodies may include a first support member a second support member and a third support member . The first support members the second support members and the third support members may be symmetrically located on the opposite ends of the hinge module .

The first support member includes a stopper formed on one end portion thereof. The second support member is a plate shaped member and may be a resilient member having resilience. The second support member may be formed of an elastic material. The first support member and the third support members may be coupled to opposite ends of the second support member .

When the electronic device is unfolded the support members may be aligned to form a substantially flat surface for supporting the rear surface of the flexible display .

When the electronic device is folded the second support member may be bent to support a bend of the flexible display .

The second support member may be located between the first support member and the third support member .

The third support member may include a step to which the second support member is coupled. The step may have a height equal to the thickness of the second support member so that the second support member and the third support member may be coplanar with each other. The first support member and the second support member may also be coplanar with each other. When the electronic device is unfolded the flexible display may be supported by one substantially flat surface formed by the support members and .

The third support member may include pin joint coupling parts disposed on opposite ends of the third support member . The third support member may be jointly coupled to the first or second housing member through the pin joint coupling parts to freely rotate with respect to the first or second housing member in a predetermined range of acute angles.

The pin joint coupling between the third support member and the first or second housing member may be made through the inner surface of the first or second housing member.

While the electronic device is folded one end portion of the first support member may come in contact with the curved slide surface of the support frame .

Although the third support member may rotate within a predetermined range the movement thereof is restricted. However the first support member is movable because the end portion thereof is not secured to a separate element. Accordingly while the electronic device is being folded the third support member rotates in the predetermined range and the first support member moves while rotating. Since the first support member can move in a predetermined range the support body is not damaged even though a portion of the support body is bent. The support members and may support the bend while surrounding the same.

Receiving spaces and for receiving the bend and the support bodies are required inside the flexible display . With the receiving spaces and minimized the internal spaces of the first housing member and the second housing member may be minimized.

While the electronic device is being unfolded the stopper of the first support member may come in contact with the step portion of the support frame . When the stopper is stopped by the step portion the first support member may be brought close to the support frame by the resilience of the flexible display and the second support member .

When the electronic device is unfolded the support members and may interlock to form a substantially flat surface that is adapted to support the flexible display . In some aspects the substantially flat surface for example may include various grooves at locations where any two of the support members and meet. Additionally or alternatively in some implementations at least two of the support members may be positioned at a slight angle e.g. 0 10 relative to one another while forming the substantially flat surface.

In addition the central support of the support frame may also support the flexible display . While the bend is straightened the entire region of the flexible display where the bend forms may be supported by the support bodies .

According to aspects of the disclosure when the electronic device is being folded unfolded the first support member may be guided and supported by the curved slide surface .

While the electronic device is being unfolded the step portions of the support frame may come in contact with the first support members . The end portions of the first support members may approach from the curved slide surfaces to the central support .

When the electronic device becomes unfolded the stoppers of the first support members may make contact with the step portions of the support frame . In this state the second support members and the flexible display may be bent by a vertical load. When the second support members are bent the first support members may move away from the central support . However while the first housing member and the second housing member are unfolded away from each other the step portions of the support frame secure the stoppers of the first support members thereby preventing the first support members from moving.

As illustrated in the hinge module may include first and second hinge members and formed to rotate about rotation axes thereof with respect to the hinge module respectively. The first housing member and the second housing member may be coupled to the first and second hinge members and respectively. Since the first housing member and the second housing member are coupled to the first and second hinge members and respectively the first housing member and the second housing member may correspond to each other with respect to the hinge module and may be folded toward or unfolded away from each other.

The electronic device according to the second embodiment of the present disclosure includes a first housing member and a second housing member that are coupled through hinge modules and adapted to pivot towards each other. A flexible display may be located on a surface of the first housing member and the second housing member .

The electronic device includes a support body and the support body may be disposed such that the flexible display is located on one surface thereof and the first and second housing members are located on the opposite surface thereof. The support body may support the flexible display .

The hinge modules may be coupled to one side of the support body and the opposite side thereof opposite to the one side respectively. The first housing member and the second housing member may be coupled to the hinge modules in a manner that permits them to pivot towards one another.

The support body may include first support members second support members and third support members . The first support members are coupled to a support frame having opposite longitudinal ends coupled to the hinge modules . Each of the second support members is coupled at one lateral end thereof to the corresponding first support member and each of the third support members is coupled to the opposite lateral end of the corresponding second support member .

The first support members the second support members and the third support members may be symmetrically located on opposite lateral ends of the support frame . That is the first support members may be coupled to the opposite lateral ends of the support frame respectively.

The first support members may be coupled to the support frame through pin joint coupling parts each of which is offset by a predetermined distance from the center of the support frame . Through the pin joint coupling the first support members may freely rotate in one direction with respect to the support frame . Stoppers formed between the opposite lateral ends of the support frame and the pin joint coupling parts may restrict the rotation of the first support members as shown. Thus the first support members may have a limited range of rotation due to the stoppers of the support frame .

Each of the second support members may be located between the first support members and the third support members and may be coupled at the opposite lateral ends thereof to the first and third support members. In some implementations the second support member may be plate shaped. Additionally or alternatively in some implementations the second support member may be formed of an elastic material.

While the electronic device is unfolded one surface formed by the first to third support members and may support the rear surface of the flexible display .

While the electronic device is folded the second support member may bend to support a bend of the flexible display .

The third support member may further include a step to which the second support member is coupled. The step of the third support member may be formed to have a height equal to the thickness of the second support member so that the second support member and the third support member may be coplanar with each other. The first support member and the second support member may also be coplanar with each other by a step . While the electronic device is unfolded the flexible display may be supported by one surface formed by the support members and .

The third support members may include outer bosses and inner bosses that protrude from opposite longitudinal ends thereof. Among the outer bosses and the inner bosses the inner bosses may be located closer to the second support members .

A guide section for guiding the movement of the third support member may be formed on inner surfaces of the first housing member and the second housing member . The guide section may be formed in the bodies of the first housing member and the second housing member .

Although the guide section formed in an inner surface of the second housing member is illustrated in the guide section may be formed on inner surfaces located on the opposite sides of the first housing member and the second housing member . In some implementations as illustrated in the example of at least four guide sections may be formed in the electronic device. The inner surfaces of the first housing member and the second housing member may be located to be separated a predetermined distance inward from the lateral ends of the first housing member and the second housing member .

Each of the guide sections may include an outer path groove for guiding a respective one of the outer bosses such that the outer boss is inserted thereinto and moves in a predetermined range and an inner path groove for guiding a respective one of the inner bosses such that the inner boss is inserted thereinto and moves in a predetermined range.

The inner path groove may include a linear section and an inclined section extending from the linear section . The exterior path groove may only include a linear section.

The outer boss may move within a predetermined length of the outer path groove and may be coupled to the outer path groove to freely rotate with respect to the outer path groove . Since the movement of the inner boss is restricted by the guide section the outer boss may rotate with respect to the exterior path groove in a predetermined range of acute angles.

The inner boss may move between the linear section and the inclined section of the inner path groove .

When the electronic device is unfolded the inner boss may be located in the linear section of the inner path groove whereas when the electronic device is folded the inner boss may be located in the inclined section of the inner path groove .

While the electronic device is being folded or unfolded the outer boss may move within a predetermined range along the outer path groove . The inner boss may move in a predetermined range through the linear section and the inclined section of the inner path groove .

The third support member may move within a predetermined distance and rotate about the outer boss in a predetermined range of acute angles. The second support member may be moved by the guide section along a predetermined path in a space between the housings and the flexible display .

As illustrated when the electronic device is folded the bend may be formed in the flexible display . When the bend applies a force to the second support members the second support members may also bend. At this time the first support members may rotate by a predetermined angle since the first support members are jointly coupled to the support frame through the pin joint coupling parts . However since the first support members are coupled to the support frame through the pin joint coupling the first support members is restricted by the range in which the support frame moves. That is the first support members may be coupled to the support frame through pin joint coupling to rotate only in one direction with respect to the support frame . The support frame may move in a predetermined range with respect to the hinge modules . As the support frame moves the pin joint coupling parts of the first support members may move.

Although the third support members have to move in a predetermined range the third support members are less limited in the moving range than the first support members . Accordingly while the electronic device is folded the third support members have a larger moving range than the first support members . Since the outer boss and the inner boss move along the outer path groove and the inner path groove respectively the third support member moves along a predetermined path. Receiving spaces and for receiving the bend and the support body are required inside the housing of the electronic device. With the receiving spaces and minimized the internal spaces of the first housing member and the second housing member may be minimized.

When the support frame is spaced apart from the bend of the flexible display the support members and may at least in part conform to the surface of the bend . If the support frame approaches the bend the second support members are more bent than illustrated in and the first support member and third support member are much more inclined. That is more internal spaces in the first housing member and the second housing member are required to make the first and third support members more inclined. In this case the first housing member and the second housing member are required to be thick. That is in order to minimize the internal spaces of the first housing member and the second housing member the support frame may be spaced apart from the bend while the electronic device is folded. In other words since the support frame may be spaced apart from the bend it is possible to minimize the receiving spaces and for receiving the bend .

When the electronic device is unfolded the support members and may be aligned to form a substantially flat surface that is adapted to support the flexible display . In addition the support frame may also support the flexible display . The bend of the flexible display may be straightened to be flat. While the bend is straightened the entire region of the flexible display may be supported. In cases where only one portion of the flexible display is supported the flexible display may be bent at the unsupported portion thereof when being used e.g. when a user views a display or inputs a touch thereby causing user inconvenience in using the electronic device.

The support frame although spaced apart from the bend may make contact with the flexible display in a state in which the bend is straightened to be flat. The support frame may move upward or downward while the electronic device is being folded or unfolded.

The guide sections may be integrally formed in the first housing member and the second housing member as illustrated in or may be formed in separate fixing pieces and for preventing the separation of the third support members as illustrated in .

The hinge module may include a hinge body that makes up the body of the hinge module and a hinge case

The hinge body may include a first hinge member and a second hinge member . The first hinge member includes a rotating shaft having a rotating gear formed thereon and the second hinge member includes a rotating shaft having a rotating gear formed thereon which is engaged with the rotating gear of the first hinge member .

The first hinge member and the second hinge member may rotate about the rotating shafts and thereof respectively.

Since the rotating gear of the first hinge member and the rotating gear of the second hinge member are engaged with each other the first hinge member and the second hinge member may rotate to correspond to each other. The first housing member and the second housing member may be coupled to housing fixing parts and of the first hinge member and the second hinge member respectively. Since the first housing member and the second housing member are coupled to the first and second hinge members respectively the first housing member and the second housing member may pivot towards or away from one another.

The first hinge member and the second hinge member may include rotating bodies and respectively which are formed on end portions of the rotating shafts and and the rotating bodies and may include rotating protrusions and respectively which protrude toward the support frame .

Slide recesses into which the rotating protrusions and are inserted may be formed on an end portion of the support frame .

As the rotating bodies and rotate in the rotation directions of the rotating shafts and the rotating protrusions and may rotate in the rotation directions of the rotating shafts and . At this time the rotating protrusions and may slide in the slide recesses and the support frame may be moved by the hinge module to be brought into contact with or spaced apart from the flexible display .

Referring to while the electronic device is unfolded the support frame may be moved by the hinge module to come in contact with the flexible display .

Referring to in the process in which the first housing member and the second housing member are folded toward each other the support frame may be moved by the hinge module to be spaced apart from the flexible display .

The rotating protrusions and protrude from the rotating bodies and respectively while being offset from the centers of the rotating shafts and . The rotating protrusion or may be located on one surface of the rotating body or and the rotating shaft or may be located on the opposite surface of the rotating body or .

The rotating bodies and may rotate about the rotating shafts and respectively and the rotating protrusions and may revolve around the rotating shafts and respectively. Since the rotating protrusions and revolve around the rotating shafts and the rotating protrusions and may move upward and downward with respect to the rotating shafts and . The movement of the rotating protrusions and may allow the support frame to move upward and downward. That is the first hinge member and the second hinge member while rotating may cause the support frame to approach or move away from the flexible display . Since the first hinge member and the second hinge member are coupled to the first housing member and the second housing member respectively the support frame may approach or move away from the flexible display while the first housing member and the second housing member are being folded toward or unfolded away from each other.

As described above the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure can prevent the deflection or flexure of the flexible display that may occur while the electronic device is being used in an unfolded state and can bend the flexible display and receive the same therein when the electronic device is folded.

Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware or a combination hardware configured with machine executable code and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer.

No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

While the present disclosure has been particularly shown and described with reference to the examples provided therein it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

