---

title: Biometric sensor for touch-enabled device
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for a biometric imager that can be integrated into a touch enabled computing device, and may be used to interact with the device. Upon touching the touch-enabled surface of the device, an image of at least a portion of the touch object can be captured and used in conjunction with identification of the user and/or for input to the device. The systems or techniques, described herein, may be integrated into a portion of the surface of such a device, and may comprise a luminescent layer that can emit photons upon touch, and an image capture component that can generate data indicative of an image of at least a portion of the touch object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501631&OS=09501631&RS=09501631
owner: 
number: 09501631
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150408
---
This application claims priority to Provisional Patent Application U.S. Ser. No. 61 977 958 entitled BIOMETRIC SENSOR FOR TOUCH ENABLED DEVICE filed Apr. 10 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Biometric scanning devices such as body part relief print image capture devices are commonly utilized in security related implementations and have become readily available to product manufacturers and consumers who may wish to secure information systems and the like. Biometric scanning devices typically capture an image of a biometric print using some type of image capture device where merely the portion of the biometric object in question is represented in a resulting image. As an example the resulting captured print image can be used for security and or identification purposes such as to access a secure system and or to identify a person associated with the biometric object.

Touch enabled devices can include portable smart devices tablet devices computer monitors portable computing device displays smart monitors televisions and other displays that may utilize touch as a method of input. As an example a smartphone e.g. or other touch enabled display may comprise a touch enabled screen that is used to interact with screen objects displayed on the device for input and general device operation functions. As another example the smartphone e.g. or other touch enabled device may also comprise one or more mechanical actuators e.g. buttons that can be actuated to enable device functions such as when the display is not active.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein a system or one or more techniques may be devised that provide a biometric imager that can be integrated into a touch enabled computing device where touch is used to interact with the device. For example upon touching the touch enabled surface of the device an image of at least a portion of the touch object e.g. biometric object may be captured. In one aspect the systems or techniques described herein may be integrated into a portion of the surface of such a device such as the home button area and may be used for security and or identification purposes and or for input to or interaction with the device.

In one implementation a biometric sensor system can comprise a luminescent layer that is disposed over a portion of a touch screen layer of a touch enabled device. In this implementation the luminescent layer can be configured to emit photons toward the touch screen layer upon contact from a biometric object. Further the biometric sensor system can comprise an image capture component that is disposed beneath the luminescent layer at the portion of the touch screen layer. In this implementation the image capture component can be configured to convert at least a portion of the photons emitted into data that is indicative of an image comprising a representation of at least a portion of the biometric object.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices may be shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein a system or one or more techniques may be devised that provide an integrated biometric imager to a touch enabled computing device and or information appliance such as a computer laptop computer smart device mobile telephone tablet device or some other appliance that can receive input by touching and or interacting with a touch sensitive surface. As an example photons emitted from a luminescent layer can be detected by an associated image sensor and converted to corresponding electrical signals. In this example the electrical signals may be indicative of one or more biometric markers from an applied biometric object e.g. by finger to the surface of the touch sensitive surface. Further the signals may be processed to produce an image representing the one or more biometric markers of the biometric object. In one aspect the systems or techniques described herein may be integrated into the surface of a touch enabled device and used to associate a user of the device with desired data e.g. for security purposes enrollment or other identification purposes . In another aspect the signals data produced by the image sensor component may be used to provide input to the device and or interact with the device.

In one implementation the luminescent layer may comprise an electroluminescent material that can convert an electrical charge into photons . In this implementation for example a natural electrical potential difference of a human e.g. provided by membrane potential can provide between 10 and 200 volts of electrical charge to the luminescent layer . Further in this implementation the electrical charge provided to the luminescent layer can be converted into photons by the electroluminescent material disposed in the luminescent layer for example.

In another implementation the luminescent layer may comprise a piezoluminescent material that can convert pressure applied to the luminescent layer into photons . In this implementation for example when a force e.g. provided by a user s finger applies pressure to the piezoluminescent material recombination processes involving electrons holes and ion centers can provide luminescence. Further in this implementation for example the pressure applied to the luminescent layer can be converted into photons from the resulting luminescence provided by the piezoluminescent material disposed in the luminescent layer .

As an illustrative example is a component diagram illustrating an example implementation of one or more portions of one or more systems described herein. In one implementation the luminescent layer can comprise electroluminescent materials e.g. fluorescent particles such as phosphor based materials such as phosphor based inorganic crystal materials with a transitional metal as a dopant or activator zinc sulfide based materials cadmium sulfide based materials gallium based materials etc. and a binder material. In one implementation when a biometric object e.g. finger or other body part contacts the luminescent layer and provides the electrical charge the electroluminescent materials may be converted to activated particles when subjected to the electrical charge merely at the location of the touch. Further in this implementation the activated particles may emit photons for example thereby producing light when subjected to the electrical charge .

As an example the natural electrical potential difference of a human e.g. provided by membrane potential can provide between 10 and 200 volts of electrical charge to the contact surface e.g. top layer of the luminescent layer . Further in this implementation when the biometric object contacts the contact surface of the luminescent layer the electrical charge can be provided to the luminescent layer . The electrical charge can be converted into photons by activating the luminescent particles thereby becoming activated luminescent particles and yielding photons such as toward an image sensing component e.g. .

In another implementation as illustrated in the luminescent layer can comprise piezoluminescent materials e.g. piezoelectric crystals such as sodium chloride potassium bromide potassium chloride lithium fluoride etc. or certain iron based polymers . In one implementation when a biometric object contacts the luminescent layer and applies a pressure force the piezoluminescent materials may be converted to activated materials when subjected to the pressure force merely at the location of the contact and pressure. Further in this implementation the activated material may emit photons for example thereby producing light when subjected to the pressure force .

As an example when electroluminescent particles are subjected to an electric charge spontaneous emission of a photon due to radiative recombination of electrons and holes can occur. This process can result when a light source such as fluorescent molecule in an excited state e.g. subjected to an electric charge undergoes a transition to a lower energy state and emits a photon. Further as another example when piezoluminescent materials are subjected to pressure the spontaneous emission of a photon due to the recombination process of electrons and holes can also occur. In this example when these materials are in an excited state e.g. subjected to pressure they can undergo the transition to a lower energy state and emit a photon.

Returning to the exemplary biometric imager device can comprise an image capture component . The image capture component can be operably engaged with the luminescent layer such that the image capture component is disposed in a path of the direction of the emitted photons . Further the image capture component may be configured to convert the received photons to an electrical signal. That is for example the image capture component may comprise photosensitive material that results in an electrical signal being produced when one or more photons impact the material. In this way for example a location and or number of photons impacting the image capture component may be indicated by a number e.g. or power of electrical signals from an area of the image capture component subjected to the photon impacts. In one implementation the resulting electrical signals may comprise data indicative of a representation e.g. image of the contact area s of the biometric object.

In one implementation the image capture component may comprise an active pixel sensor APS or passive pixel sensor PPS such as a thin film sensor e.g. photo sensitive thin film transistor TFT thin film photo diode or complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . As another example the sensor arrangement may comprise a charge coupled device CCD a contact image sensor CIS or some other light sensor that can convert photons into an electrical signal. Of note the illustration of is merely an exemplary implementation of the biometric imager device and is not intended to provide any particular limitations. That is for example the gap illustrated between the luminescent layer and the image capture component is exaggerated for purposes of explanation and may or may not be present in the exemplary biometric imager device .

As an illustrative example is a component diagram illustrating an example implementation of one or more portions of one or more systems described herein. In the example implementation of the luminescent layer may be disposed over the image capture component which can be used to convert incoming photons into an electronic signal. In one implementation the image capture component may comprise a thin film sensor array. For example a thin film sensor array may be used to detect photons emitted by the luminescent layer . Here as an example the image capture component can detect photons produced by the luminescent layer e.g. produced from a biometric object contacting the surface of the luminescent layer and convert the detected photons into an electrical signal.

In this example implementation a photo sensitive material e.g. comprising a semiconductor material such as SiH amorphous silicon germanium based materials indium gallium based materials lead based materials may be formed between a first source electrode and a first drain electrode of a light sensing unit . When an electrical charge is applied to a first gate electrode the photo sensitive layer can become responsive to light for example where the photo sensitive layer may become electrically conductive when incident to photons of light. As one example when light is incident on the photo sensitive layer over a predetermined threshold light amount the first source electrode and the first drain electrode may become electrically connected. Therefore in this example light generated from the luminescent layer e.g. comprising a fingerprint pattern may be received by the photo sensitive layer which may cause an electrical signal to pass from the first source electrode to the first drain electrode e.g. providing an electronic signal indicative of the light received .

Further in one implementation a switching unit of the image capture component can comprise a second source electrode a second drain electrode and an intrinsic semiconductor layer . As one example when a negative charge is applied to a second gate electrode the intrinsic semiconductor layer may become electrically conductive thereby allowing the electrical signal created at the light sensing unit to pass from the second source electrode to the second drain electrode e.g. and to an electrical signal reading component for converting to a digital image . In this way for example the switching unit may be used to control when an electrical signal indicative of a particular amount of light may be sent to an electrical signal reading component e.g. for processing purposes signal location purposes and or to mitigate signal interference with neighboring light sensing units .

Additionally in one implementation a light shielding layer may be resident over the top portion of the switching unit . As one example the light shielding layer may mitigate intrusion of light to the intrinsic semiconductor layer as light can affect the electrical conductivity of the intrinsic semiconductor layer . The image capture component may also comprise a substrate of any suitable material onto which the layers of the image capture component may be formed. As one example when a biometric object e.g. finger etc. comes into contact with a contact surface e.g. top surface top coating protective layer of the luminescent layer an electrical charge e.g. and or a pressure force may pass into the luminescent layer . In this example the luminescent layer may emit photons that are incident to the photo sensitive layer thereby allowing an electrical signal e.g. indicative of the number of photons received and or location of the received photons to pass from the first source electrode to the second drain electrode .

In one aspect the exemplary biometric imager device may be used to generate a biometric object relief print. As one example the exemplary biometric imager device may be used to capture a fingerprint of one or more of a user s fingers e.g. or other biometric object placed on the surface of the luminescent layer such as for security purposes user identification biometric data logging biometric data comparison and retrieval etc. In one implementation in this aspect in order to generate an appropriate biometric object relief print e.g. fingerprint greater definition of finer details of the biometric object may be needed e.g. greater than for a touch location detection . In this implementation a supplemental electrical charge may be used to increase a number of photons produced by the luminescent layer for example where the increase in photons may provide improved detail definition and improved contrast for finer detail in a resulting image.

As an illustrative example is a component diagram illustrating an example implementation of one or more portions of one or more systems described herein. In the example implementation of the luminescent layer may comprise an electrode based e.g. single electrode electroluminescence component. Further in this implementation the luminescent layer can comprise an electricity supply e.g. a power source such as an AC source which may provide an electrical connection between the biometric object and the luminescent layer . Further in one implementation the luminescent layer may comprise a transparent electrode layer e.g. comprising an indium tin oxide ITO material e.g. or another optically transparent conductor an electroluminescent layer and or a dielectric layer e.g. a conductive insulating layer that allows electric potential or an electric field to build across the luminescent layer . In this implementation for example when the exemplary biometric imager device is activated e.g. by placing a finger on the surface of the device photons produced by the luminescent layer can be emitted in the first direction such as directed toward the image capture component .

In the luminescent element can comprise the electroluminescent layer for example comprised of electroluminescent material and a binder material. In one implementation the electroluminescent material may comprise activated particles such as when subjected to an electrical field . Further in this implementation the activated particles may emit photons for example thereby producing light when subjected to the electrical current . Further in this example implementation the dielectric layer is resident over the top portion of and in contact with the electroluminescent layer and the transparent electrode e.g. a receiving electrode is resident under the bottom portion of and in contact with the electroluminescent layer . Further the power source such as an alternating current AC power source may be electrically coupled with an electrode connection in electrical connection with the transparent electrode and a contact electrode e.g. a biometric object contact electrode residing substantially adjacent to a contact surface e.g. top surface of the dielectric layer .

In one implementation the biometric object may contact both the contact surface of the dielectric layer and the contact electrode . In this implementation for example upon contacting both the dielectric layer and the object contact electrode an electrical circuit may be created between the contact electrode and the transparent electrode thereby allowing voltage potential to flow between the two electrodes. Further in this implementation those portions of the biometric object e.g. body part relief ridges that come in contact with the contact surface of the dielectric material layer can allow a voltage potential across the contact electrode and transparent electrode . Additionally the electric field can activate the electroluminescent particles merely at the location of the touch. Upon activation the activated particles may emit photons merely at the location of the contact of the portions of the biometric object e.g. fingerprint ridges . In this way for example an illuminated relief print e.g. fingerprint of the biometric object e.g. finger may be produced when the biometric object contacts both the contact electrode and the contact surface of the dielectric layer .

As another illustrative example is a component diagram illustrating an example implementation of one or more portions of one or more systems described herein. In this example implementation the luminescent layer is coupled with the example image capture component which is disposed on an example substrate layer . Further in this implementation of a portion of the exemplary device the luminescent layer is electrically coupled with a power source which is electrically coupled with a grounding electrode . In this implementation as an example when a biometric object e.g. finger etc. comes into contact with the grounding electrode and the luminescent layer e.g. the dielectric layer of an electrical current is passed from the power source to the grounding electrode and into the luminescent layer through the biometric object . The resulting photons emitted by the luminescent layer e.g. by the electroluminescent layer of may impact on the photo sensitive layer of the image capture component resulting in the output of one or more electrical signals indicative of a relief print of the biometric object .

In one implementation as illustrated in a top layer of the cover glass may comprise a protective coating . A protective coating can be configured to provide protection to the surface of the cover glass such as from dirt liquids ultra violet light scratches and shock for example. Further in some implementations the cover glass may comprise an adhesive layer configured to adhere the protective coating to the top surface of the cover glass . In this implementation the cover glass can comprise a first conducting film . As an example the first conducting film can comprise an optically transparent electrode type material formed from inorganic or organic materials. As an example an inorganic material such as indium tin oxide ITO fluorine doped tin oxide FTO and or doped zinc oxide may be used to create the first conducting film . Alternately an optically transparent electrode type material may comprise an organic material such as graphene carbon nanotubes and or polymers which may be used to create the first conducting film .

As illustrated in the cover glass may comprise a glass layer e.g. or polymer or polyester layer for example comprising treated and or toughened glass e.g. treated with alkali salts tempered etc. made of a variety of materials such as aluminosilicates and other materials. Further in some implementations the cover glass can comprise a second conducting film similar to the first conducting film . As an example the use of two conducting films sandwiching the glass layer may enable the cover glass to be a capacitive touch screen where a user may merely touch the cover glass to interact with on screen events and or to input data.

In the example implementation of the cover glass may be disposed over a display screen for example comprising a liquid crystal display LCD . The display screen may provide the visual output of the user interface UI for the device for example including the on screen buttons input widgets and visual content displayed to the user. In this implementation the cover glass may comprise a touch enabled screen and protective cover for the display screen protecting the display screen from liquids dirt and physical damage while providing a primary input tool for the device .

Further the electroluminescent film component can comprise a bottom electrode comprising any suitable transparent conducting film e.g. of . Additionally a reinforcement layer may may be disposed on top of the bottom electrode layer . As an example the reinforcement layer may be comprised of any suitable material that can be configured to provide some rigidity and reinforcement between a luminescence layer and the bottom electrode . The luminescence layer e.g. of can be configured to convert an electrical charge into photons indicative of a location and strength of the electrical field as described above. That is for example a user s finger may provide and electrical charge to the luminescence layer which can convert luminescent particles in the layer in to activated particles thereby releasing one or more photons in response to the electrical charge.

As illustrated in the example electroluminescent component can comprise a shield layer disposed on top of the luminescence layer . The shield layer may be comprised of any suitable material that can be configured to mitigate emission of photons from the top surface of the luminescence layer for example by providing a light blocking ability and may be appropriately deposited and remain resident on the luminescence layer . In this way for example photons released by the luminescent layer can merely be directed toward the bottom of the electroluminescent component e.g. toward an image sensor . A dielectric layer can be disposed on top of the shield layer and may be configured to provide insulation and pass electrical current when appropriate as described above e.g. of . Further a protective layer may be deposited on top of the dielectric layer . The protective layer can be configured to mitigate physical damage to the surface of the electroluminescent component and provide protection from liquids.

As an illustrative example the exemplary electroluminescent component may comprise a contact light emitting device made up of one or more of the example layers . In this example when an electric field is formed between an object to be imaged such as a biometric object e.g. one or more fingers or a hand and the bottom electrode layer the luminescence layer can emit photons indicative of an image of at least a portion of the biometric object.

As an illustrative example is a component diagram illustrating an example implementation of one or more portions of one or more systems described herein. In this implementation the luminescent layer is deposited on top of a portion of the cover glass of a touch enabled device. Further the protective layer may be deposited on top of the luminescent layer and the cover glass layer s . In this way for example the luminescent layer may be effectively disposed on a desired portion of the cover glass and the entire cover glass can be covered by the protective layer . Therefore for example when the portion of the cover glass on which the luminescent layer is disposed is contacted by a biometric object light indicative of an image of the biometric object may be directed toward the cover glass from the luminescent layer .

In one implementation an image sensing component may be disposed beneath the cover glass positioned at the location of the luminescent layer for example such that light emitted from the luminescent layer may impact the image sensing component . For example the image sensing component may comprise any suitable component e.g. in as described above. In one implementation the image sensing component may utilize an optic e.g. lens for example which may be configured to focus the photons emitted from the luminescent layer to a desired configuration. As an example the image sensing component may yield more desirable results e.g. improved image quality such as focus granularity contrast etc. when the emitted light is focused into an appropriate arrangement prior to impacting the sensing component surface.

As another illustrative example is a component diagram illustrating an example implementation of one or more portions of one or more systems described herein. In this implementation the luminescent layer can be deposited on top of an image sensing component layer such as the image capture component of . In one implementation the luminescent layer may be disposed on a thin film transistor e.g. or similar thin film image sensor and the combination luminescent layer and thin film image sensor can be deposited on the portion of the cover glass of a touch enabled device. Further in this implementation the thin film image sensor may be communicatively coupled for example using a data communication connection to a processing component e.g. computer processor resident in or coupled to the touch enabled device. In this way for example the data representative of an image of a biometric object may be transmitted to a data and or image processor for desired processing e.g. comparison enrollment storage etc. .

In the implementation of the protective layer may be deposited on top of the luminescent layer and the cover glass layer s . In this way for example the combination of the luminescent layer and thin film image sensor may be effectively disposed on a desired portion of the cover glass and the entire cover glass can be covered by the protective layer . Therefore for example when the portion of the cover glass on which the combination of the luminescent layer and thin film image sensor is disposed is contacted by the biometric object light indicative of an image of the biometric object may be directed from the luminescent layer to thin film image sensor where the light may be converted into electrical signals indicative of data representing an image of at least a portion of the biometric object.

As an illustrative example are component diagrams illustrating example implementations of one or more portions of one or more systems described herein. With continued reference to illustrate example implementations of devices that may utilize touch enabled surfaces for receiving user input. For example smart devices tablets monitors laptops and other displays may utilize a cover glass and other systems that allow the user to interact with the device by touching the screen. In these implementations the respective devices can comprise a type of home button e.g. or area .

For example smart devices and tablet typically comprise a home button that may activate the device place it to a home condition or perform other actions. In one implementation the luminescent layer e.g. or combined luminescent layer and thin film image sensor may be disposed at the location of the home button or area beneath the protective layer and on top of the cover glass e.g. sandwiched between the protective layer and cover glass . Further in one implementation the image sensing component may be disposed beneath the home button or area and can be configured to receive the light emitted by the luminescent layer for example when contacted by a biometric object.

In one implementation the data generated by the image sensing component or thin film image sensor e.g. data in the form of electrical signals generated by the impact of photons on the image sensor may be used to generate an image of the object that contacted the device surface at the location of the home button or area . For example the touch object may comprise a biometric object e.g. fingerprint and the biometric image may be used for identification association of the user e.g. for security etc. . In another implementation the data generated by the image sensing component or thin film image sensor may be used as an input event. For example upon touching the device surface at the location of the home button or area the generated data may indicate that the user has selected e.g. operated the function associated with the touch location e.g. home button . That is for example instead of mechanical button the data generated by the touch can indicate selection or pressing the home button. In another implementation the biometric image data generated by the image sensor may be compared against stored e.g. locally and or remotely biometric data for the user and if threshold criteria are met by the comparison the function associated with the touch location can be initiated otherwise no action may be initiated.

In this way for example when a user of the device touches e.g. with their finger the home button area an electric field can exist across the luminescent layer which may result in photons indicative of the touch e.g. fingerprints being emitted toward the image sensing component through the cover glass e.g. and the optic . Further in this example the image sensing component may be configured to convert the received photons into electrical signals as described above indicative of the image of the touch. Additionally the electrical signals may comprise data representative of an image of the object that contacted the surface of the home button area .

With reference to in one implementation the luminescent layer and image sensing component e.g. or combination luminescent layer and thin film image sensor can be positioned in on the device at a location where the touch enabled screen feature of the device may not be active such as at a perimeter top or bottom location of the device cover e.g. of for example outside of the display area. In another implementation the luminescent layer and image sensing component e.g. or combination luminescent layer and thin film image sensor can be positioned in on the device at a location within the boundaries of the touch enabled screen area such as within the display screen area e.g. of . It will be appreciated that the location position of the systems described herein is not limited to any particular location in on the device and it is anticipated that those skilled in the art may device alternate locations for example on the back or sides of the device.

In one implementation the data representing and image of the touch object e.g. fingerprint may be stored locally on the device and or remotely on a remote e.g. cloud based server. Further the stored data may be used for security and or identification purposes such as to enable access to the device or portions of the device services by merely an authorized user. Additionally the image data may be used to enroll individuals into a database and or identify individuals for example used by security personnel.

In one aspect a method may be devised for manufacturing a biometric sensor system such as a system that can provide an integrated biometric imager to a touch enabled computing device and or information appliance such as a computer laptop computer smart device mobile telephone tablet device or some other information appliance that can receive input by touching and or interacting with a touch sensitive surface. As an example a method may be devised to construct a system such as those described above in .

At of the exemplary method a protective layer may be deposited on the top surface of the electroluminescent layer. Further the protective layer may be deposited over the remaining portions of the device cover glass not covered by the electroluminescent layer. As described herein the protective layer may comprise any suitable material configured to provide protection to the top surface of the cover screen and electroluminescent layer for example protecting against physical chemical light and liquid intrusion and or damage.

At the image sensing component may be installed in the target device e.g. touch enabled device such as at a location where the electroluminescent layer may be positioned when the cover glass is installed on the device. For example the image sensing component can be installed inside the cover of the device below the location where the electroluminescent layer may be installed such that light emitted by the electroluminescent layer may be directed toward the image sensing component. Additionally in one implementation an optic component e.g. optical lens can be installed co located with the image sensing component for example between the image sensor and the location of the electroluminescent component.

At of the exemplary method the cover glass comprising the electroluminescent layer and protective cover layer can be installed on the device. As an example the cover glass can be installed in a manner that appropriately aligns the electroluminescent layer with the image sensing component so that light emitted by the electroluminescent component may impact on the surface of the image sensing component e.g. or the optical lens . Having installed the cover glass on the target device the exemplary method ends at .

In an alternate implementation of a method for manufacturing a biometric sensor the electroluminescent layer e.g. or a piezoelectric luminescent layer may be deposited over a thin film image sensor e.g. a TFT of . For example instead of depositing the electroluminescent layer directly onto the device cover e.g. as in of FIGURED the electroluminescent layer may be deposited onto a thin film image sensor. Further the combination electroluminescent layer and thin film sensor may be deposited on the top surface of the device cover e.g. as in of FIGURED .

In this implementation the protective layer can be deposited on top of the electroluminescent layer and top surface of the device cover e.g. cover glass e.g. as in of . Further the thin film image sensor may be communicatively coupled with a processor e.g. via a communication line such as a data bus or wireless communication associated with the touch enabled device. Additionally in one implementation because the thin film image sensor may be used to capture data indicative of an image of at least a portion of the biometric object an image capture component may not be installed in the device at the electroluminescent location as in of . In this implementation the device cover comprising the combination electroluminescent layer and thin film image sensor and protective layer may be installed on the target touch enabled device e.g. as in of .

Further as in one implementation the image capture component may be disposed in the device below the cover glass of the device for example as an APS TFT CMOS CCD CIS or some other light sensor that can convert photons into an electrical signal. In another implementation the image capture component may be disposed beneath the electroluminescent layer as a thin film sensor e.g. TFT or the like which can be disposed on top of the cover glass.

At of the exemplary method the image capture component can receive the photons indicative of the biometric object. That is for example the photons emitted by the electroluminescent layer may impact light sensitive portions of the image sensor component where the photons are indicative of an image of the object that contacted the device cover at the electroluminescent layer location. At the image capture component can convert the photons to electrical signals as described above. At the electrical signals can be converted to data indicative of an image representing at least a portion of the biometric object. That is for example the electrical signals can be indicative of a number and location of photons that impacted the image sensing component. In this example the number and location of photons indicated by the electrical signals can be converted to image data representing an image of the object that contacted the surface e.g. fingerprint s or handprint s .

Having converted the electrical signals to data indicative of an image of the biometric object the exemplary method ends at .

In another implementation one or more of the systems and techniques described herein may be implemented by a computer based system. An example computer based system environment is illustrated in . The following discussion of provides a brief general description of a computing environment in on which one or more or the implementations of one or more of the methods and or system set forth herein may be implemented. The operating environment of is merely an example of a suitable operating environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the operating environment. Example computing devices include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices mobile devices such as mobile phones mobile consoles tablets media players and the like multiprocessor systems consumer electronics mini computers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Although not required implementations are described in the general context of computer readable instructions executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other implementations device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one implementation computer readable instructions to implement one or more implementations provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection e.g. data bus or a wireless connection e.g. wireless data transmission . Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one implementation an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another implementation components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more implementations provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Further at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Reference throughout this specification to one implementation or an implementation means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation is included in at least one implementation. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one implementation or in an implementation in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more implementations. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

