---

title: Omnidirectional antenna having constant phase
abstract: Various technologies presented herein relate to constructing and/or operating an antenna having an omnidirectional electrical field of constant phase. The antenna comprises an upper plate made up of multiple conductive rings, a lower ground-plane plate, a plurality of grounding posts, a conical feed, and a radio frequency (RF) feed connector. The upper plate has a multi-ring configuration comprising a large outer ring and several smaller rings of equal size located within the outer ring. The large outer ring and the four smaller rings have the same cross-section. The grounding posts ground the upper plate to the lower plate while maintaining a required spacing/parallelism therebetween.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614273&OS=09614273&RS=09614273
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09614273
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150819
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Detection of a position and direction of motion of an object such as a vehicle can be provided by navigation technologies such as the Global Positioning System GPS the Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo system etc. Such navigation technologies are space based satellite navigation systems that provide location and time information anywhere on or near Earth as a function of an unobstructed view to a plurality of positioning satellites.

A number of antenna configurations are available to receive navigation signaling however conventional antenna configurations can require rather limited operating conditions and accordingly may not be amenable to operation with vehicles that are travelling with a high velocity experiencing elevated temperatures etc.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies related to constructing and or operating an antenna for utilization on a vehicle that is travelling at high velocity and or experiencing extreme environmental conditions e.g. high temperatures. The antenna which is referred to herein as a metal rings antenna or a multi ring antenna MRA can have a low profile e.g. 

The antenna can comprise an upper plate made up of multiple conductive rings a lower ground plane plate a plurality of stand off grounding posts a conical feed and a radio frequency RF feed connector. The upper plate can have a five ring configuration comprising a large outer ring and four smaller rings of equal size located within the outer ring. The large outer ring and the four smaller rings can have the same cross sectional profile e.g. square round rectangular etc. . In an embodiment the larger ring can be twice the diameter of the smaller rings and defines the outer diameter of the upper plate. The smaller rings can be located inside the larger ring with the centers of the smaller rings being 90 degrees from each other at a distance of half the radius of the larger ring from its center.

The antenna can further comprise four stand off grounding posts positioned at the perimeter of the larger ring one post at each intersection of the smaller rings to the larger ring. The posts act to ground the upper plate to the lower plate while maintaining a spacing or gap between the upper plate and the lower plate. The conical feed can be a conical section that is attached at its largest diameter e.g. its base to the center region of the upper plate while leaving a gap between the smallest diameter of the cone e.g. its apex and the lower plate. For example the gap between the apex of the cone and the lower plate can be approximately 0.05 inches.

The lower plate can be a solid circular plate with an outer diameter equal to or larger than the upper plate. At the center of the lower plate is a hole e.g. 0.160 inch diameter to allow for an insulator of the RF feed connector to be located therein. The RF feed connector mounts to the hole e.g. at an external surface of the lower plate . The insulator and center conductor of the RF feed connector can protrude through the hole of the lower plate and touch the bottom smaller diameter e.g. apex of the conical feed. The center conductor of the RF feed can be longer than the insulator and can be connected to the conical feed by any suitable means e.g. brazing.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies are presented herein pertaining to an omnidirectional antenna having constant phase wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Various embodiments presented herein relate to an antenna which can maintain constant phase while it is being spun rotated about its axis. The antenna has a relatively small profile e.g. having a thickness of less than 0.1 times the wavelength of a signal to be detected or emitted by the antenna . The antenna can be utilized in any suitable application one such example application is as an antenna in a global positioning system. For example the antenna can be attached to a vehicle traveling with a high velocity e.g. hypersonic and a determination of the vehicle s location is required e.g. by GPS signaling. A function of traveling at such high velocities is the vehicle can undergo and or experience such environmental conditions as a high degree of heating.

The antenna further includes a plurality of posts that connect the lower plate and the upper plate and further maintain a separation distance between the lower plate and the upper plate e.g. separation distance G shown in .

The antenna further comprises a cone which is attached to the upper plate . The cone is of such size and position that the base B of the cone is attached to the upper plate and the apex A of the cone is located a distance D above the hole . While not shown the cone can be attached to the center region C of the upper plate by screws or other suitable mechanical assembly.

A connector enables connection of the antenna to an external system wherein the external system can be a positioning and or navigation system such as a GPS system. The antenna can be connected to the external system by a conductive cable transmission line etc. For instance the cable can be a coaxial coax cable wherein the coax cable can include a core conductor an insulating layer e.g. tubular shrouding the conductor and a conductive shield e.g. tubular surrounding the insulating layer . The coax cable can further comprise a protective jacket layer which encapsulates the conductive shield . The coax cable can be configured to enable a radio frequency RF signal to be supplied to the antenna system e.g. supplied from a GPS receiver to the cone via the core conductor . Additionally or alternatively the coax cable can be configured to enable an RF signal captured by the antenna to be supplied to a receiver.

The connector can be configured such that the core of the coax cable extends through the hole to connect at the apex A of the cone . Further the insulating layer can be utilized to prevent the core from touching an inner surface of the hole and accordingly prevent the core from touching the lower plate . The connector can be further configured to connect the conductive shield to the lower plate . Hence during operation of the antenna the lower plate can act as a ground plate while the upper plate can act as an electrically active plate e.g. a radiator. In an example the hole can have a diameter of about 0.160 inches to enable location of the insulating layer in the hole .

As shown in the upper plate can comprise a plurality of shapes wherein the respective size number and or arrangement of the plurality of the shapes can be configured to enable a constant signal phase to be generated across the antenna during operation of the antenna e.g. while the antenna is electrically excited . As previously mentioned the antenna can be located on a vehicle travelling at high velocity. To enable a vehicle travelling at such a high velocity to travel with stable flight and maintain a required direction course flight path etc. the vehicle can have an aerodynamic profile and further the vehicle can be spinning about its direction of travel e.g. to provide gyroscopic stability .

The antenna can be attached to the vehicle by any suitable connection mechanism e.g. the antenna can be attached by bolting in conjunction with a plurality of attachment holes . Accordingly as the vehicle undergoes rotation during flight the antenna also undergoes rotation. Owing to configuration of the antenna as the antenna rotates an electrical field having constant phase is engendered about the antenna in an omnidirectional manner. Hence the constant phase electrical field about the antenna enables the antenna to receive GPS signaling from one or more transmitters e.g. satellite based systems remotely located from the antenna .

As shown in an exemplary configuration is depicted wherein the upper plate comprises an outer ring R and four smaller rings R R included therein. The rings R R can be arranged in a cross arrangement such that the rings R R are equally distributed about the centerpoint C of the larger outer ring R. As shown in the centerpoint C of the outer ring R is aligned with the centerline CL of the hole . Hence during rotation of the antenna e.g. as a function of rotation of the vehicle carrying the antenna the upper plate is configured to have an effective rotation about the CL. The outer ring R and the four smaller rings R R can have the same cross section e.g. square round hexagonal etc. and further be constrained to a common plane. In an example the outer ring R can have a diameter twice a diameter of the smaller rings R R wherein ring R can define an outer diameter of the upper plate . Per the configuration presented in the smaller rings R R can be located inside the ring R wherein the respective centers of rings R R are positioned 90 from each other with respect to the center C and further are respectively positioned at a distance of half the radius of the ring R from its center C.

During excitation of the antenna an electrical field can be generated in the upper plate and further conveyed by the plurality of posts from the upper plate to the lower ground plate . Hence owing to the arrangement of the rings R R and the spinning of the antenna the electric field around the antenna effectively has a constant phase. Hence as a signal e.g. from an external GPS satellite is incident upon the antenna the incident signal can cause a voltage or potential field between plates and causing an electric current to be generated on the antenna . Owing to the arrangement of the rings R R relative to the ring R a current applied to the cone is equally distributed throughout the upper plate e.g. equally over all surfaces of the upper plate . When the current reaches the outer edge of the upper plate e.g. reaches the outer edge of the ring R the current field can connect to the lower plate thereby creating an electric field across the entirety of the antenna .

A plurality of factors and or requirements can affect one or more parameters of the antenna . For example the separation distance G can be a function of a desired bandwidth wherein the greater the distance G the greater an operating bandwidth of the antenna . For instance the antenna can be configured such that it is able to operate with two or more frequencies. For example antenna system can be configured to operate with one or more GPS frequencies such as L1 frequency e.g. 1575.42 MHz L2 frequency e.g. 1227.60 MHz etc. By configuring the antenna to operate with both L1 and L2 frequencies the antenna can be utilized with a GPS receiver that uses both L1 and L2 frequencies thereby enabling a higher degree of positional determination than can be achieved with a GPS receiver that only operates at the L1 frequency.

In an exemplary embodiment the outer ring R and accordingly the upper plate can have a diameter of about 5 inches. Further the separation distance G can be about a inch. Furthermore the distance D between the apex A of the cone and the opening of the hole e.g. surface F can be about 0.05 inches 50 thousandths of an inch . The antenna system can have a low profile for example a thickness of 

In another example the lower plate the upper plate the plurality of posts the connector the core and or the shield can be formed from a conductive material such as aluminum copper gold silver graphene a plated material such as gold plated aluminum etc. The insulating layer can be formed from any suitable insulator such as polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or Teflon . Material selection can be a function of a desired impedance with which the antenna is to operate. For example the antenna can be configured to operate with a particular impedance e.g. an impedance of 50 ohms .

In an example the upper plate can be formed from a single plate of material with the respective shapes of the outer ring R and inner rings R R being formed by any suitable material removal technique such as machining e.g. milling drilling etc. electrical discharge machining EDM wire EDM etc. In another example the upper plate can be formed by a near net shape formation process such as casting investment casting forging etc. with subsequent machining as required. In a further example the upper plate can be formed from a plurality of separate components wherein for example the rings R R can be separate pieces e.g. separate rings which can be joined by any suitable process such as welding soldering brazing mechanical fixture etc.

Further the space or gap G between the lower plate and the upper plate can be an air filled volume. In another example the space G can be filled with a suitable material where such material can include an insulator etc.

It is to be appreciated that while the antenna is illustrated with the upper plate comprising an outer ring R and four inner rings R R other configurations are contemplated. For example the number of inner rings can be less than or more than the four rings R R depicted in . Other shapes and arrangements for the upper plate can include a Steiner chain arrangement a trefoil arrangement a Borromean arrangement a vesica piscis arrangement a Celtic four arrangement a serpent knot a Celtic round as well as rings or circles other shapes can be utilized such as any number and arrangement of polygons a icosahedral arrangement an arrangement of spoke like structures or arms radiating from the center C to the outer ring R etc.

Further the antenna can be manufactured by incorporating the antenna into a printed circuit board PCB . For example the lower plate e.g. a ground layer can be formed on a first plane in the PCB and the upper plate e.g. an active layer can be formed on a second plane in the PCB with the cone e.g. a feed network located in a manner to replicate the operation and or structure of the antenna . A connector can be incorporated into the PCB assembly to enable connection to a transmitter or receiver.

Turning to system is presented wherein system includes a vehicle traveling in a direction of travel T. The vehicle can be an aircraft a space craft a projectile a body etc. Further as the vehicle is in motion the vehicle can be rotating about an axis of travel based upon the direction of travel T. As shown the vehicle has the antenna onboard. In an example the antenna can be attached to a rear facing portion of the vehicle e.g. to minimize exposure of the antenna to conditions such as heat . Further to maintain phase stability of the antenna during operation e.g. motion of the vehicle the antenna can be located e.g. mounted on a centerline extending through the vehicle . For example the centerline of the vehicle can be the axis of travel in direction T as indicated.

The system also includes satellites and that are shown as emitting signals and respectively. The satellites and can be operating as part of a navigation system where a minimum number of satellites are required for positioning of a vehicle e.g. vehicle . For example signaling from four or more satellites is required for GPS positioning. The antenna is illustrated as receiving the signals and or from the satellites and . As the signals and are received at the antenna a GPS receiver located onboard the vehicle can determine a location of the vehicle based upon the signals and or . Accordingly the GPS receiver can be operating in conjunction with a navigation system not shown located on the vehicle whereby the navigation system can utilize the GPS information to enable steering of the vehicle etc. During operation the antenna can protected from environmental conditions experienced during flight of the vehicle by covering the antenna with a cover comprising any suitable material e.g. having a low thermal conductivity e.g. a fused silica cover.

Measured electromagnetic characteristics of the antenna per include operating bandwidth voltage standing wave ratio VSWR 

At shape and dimensioning of the antenna can be determined. As previously described the antenna design can comprise of pair of plates and a central conductor. The pair of plates can comprise a lower plate wherein the lower plate is a ground plate and has a hole located at the center of the lower plate and an upper plate wherein the upper plate is aligned parallel to the lower plate and can function as a radiator plate. The upper plate can comprise an outer ring having a centerpoint located over the hole of the lower plate and a plurality of inner rings wherein the plurality of inner rings are contained within and are symmetrically arranged about the centerpoint of the outer ring. The plurality of inner rings are interlocked and connect to each other at the centerpoint of the outer ring and are attached to the outer ring. The antenna can further include a conductive cone attached to the plurality of the inner rings wherein attachment is such that the base of the conductive cone is located at the centerpoint of the outer ring and the apex of the conductive cone is located over the hole in the lower plate. The upper and lower plates can be joined and also gapped by a plurality of posts wherein the plurality of posts are located between the lower plate and the upper plate and are positioned around the outer ring with an even spacing between neighboring posts in the plurality of posts. A connector can be incorporated into the antenna design to enable connection of a conductive cable e.g. coax cable to the antenna and accordingly connection of the antenna to a GPS receiver. Determining the shape and dimensioning of the antenna can include material selection determining number and arrangement of shapes comprising the upper plate etc.

At as previously mentioned the antenna design can include separating the upper plate from the lower plate. The separation distance in conjunction with upper plate design material selection etc. can affect operational parameters such as operational bandwidth impedance operational frequency etc. Accordingly a separation distance between the radiator plate and the ground plate can be determined to achieve a required operational parameter s .

At the antenna system can be fabricated based upon the determined dimensioning separation distance material selection etc.

At during operation of the vehicle the antenna can be excited such that an electrical field is established around the antenna. The antenna can be excited by a signal e.g. a GPS signal received in free space from a satellite that is incident upon the antenna wherein the signal can comprise of electromagnetic energy. Excitation of the antenna can cause an electric field e.g. an electric current field to be generated at the antenna wherein a magnitude and duration of the electric field can be based upon a magnitude and size of each of the incident signals.

At the signals and according electrical fields produced at the antenna can be received and monitored by the co located receiver from which GPS related info can be obtained e.g. by the GPS receiver and any associated equipment to generate navigation information regarding a current previous and or future location of the vehicle. Accordingly a navigation system can utilize the navigation information to adjust a bearing direction flight path etc. Phase variation in any of the received signals can be caused by any discontinuity e.g. a non smooth surface in the ground plane that the antenna is mounted to. Also changes in the antenna impedance can result from changes in environmental conditions can affect the phase of the signal being received.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

