---

title: Method for processing input and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method for operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes obtaining input information input to a display screen and fingerprint information input to a fingerprint sensor. The method also includes executing a command matching a combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489127&OS=09489127&RS=09489127
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09489127
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150115
---
The present application is related to and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to an application number 10 2014 0005128 filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jan. 15 2014 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a method for processing data input to an electronic device and the electronic device thereof.

Thanks to advances of information communication technology and semiconductor technology various electronic devices function based on information input to various input devices. The electronic device displays its operational status through a display. When the display is a touch display for inputting information to a touch screen the electronic device functions by inputting the input information of the designated screen. Also the electronic device receives user information through a fingerprint sensor or performs a function corresponding to the input fingerprint information.

The fingerprint information input through the fingerprint sensor is used only to determine whether it matches preset fingerprint information in the electronic device and the use of the fingerprint information is quite limited.

To address the above discussed deficiencies of the prior art it is a primary aspect of the present disclosure to provide various services by combining fingerprint information input to an electronic device and one or more input information.

In a first example a method for operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes obtaining information input to a display screen and fingerprint information input to a fingerprint sensor. The method also includes executing a command matching a combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information.

In a second example an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a memory configured to store information input to a screen fingerprint information and a command corresponding to a combination of the screen input information and the fingerprint information. The electronic device also includes one or more processors configured to obtain the screen input information and the fingerprint information input to a fingerprint sensor and execute a command matching the combination of the screen input information and the fingerprint information.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device includes a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical appliance a camera and a wearable device such as at least one of a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses an electronic textiles an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an appcessory and a smart watch .

The electronic device is a smart home appliance having the communication function. The smart home appliance includes for example at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box such as Samsung HomeSync AppleTV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary a digital key a camcorder and a digital frame.

The electronic device includes at least one of various medical appliances such as Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT X ray ultrasonicator a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an in vehicle infotainment device marine electronic equipment such as marine navigation device and gyro compass avionics and a security device.

The electronic device includes at least one of part of furniture or building structure including the communication unction an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various gauges such as gauges for water electricity gas and radio wave . The electronic device is one or a combination of those various devices. Those skilled in the art shall understand that the electronic device of the present disclosure is not limited those devices. Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure provide an electronic device by referring to the attached drawings. The term user indicates a person or a device such as an artificial intelligence electronic device who or which uses the electronic device.

The input processing module sets a function of the electronic device for information including information input to a screen of the display module and fingerprint information input to a fingerprint sensor by a user and store the setting information in a database. The input processing module stores in the database one or more setting information by combining one or more screen input information and one or more fingerprint information. One setting information designates and control one or more functions of the electronic device .

The input processing module obtains the information input to the screen of the display module and the fingerprint information input to a fingerprint sensor and execute a command matching the combination of the obtained screen input information and the fingerprint information. The input processing module determines whether the combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information corresponds to a combination of reference screen input information and reference fingerprint information and perform a preset function corresponding to the combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. The input processing module obtains screen input information and the fingerprint information which are input with the same input means. The input processing module generates the screen input information using one or more of a gesture for touching the display a gesture for dragging the display and a gesture for releasing the touch with the input means. The input processing module executes the command determined by distinguishing an input order of the fingerprint information and the screen input information. The input processing module executes the command determined by considering input time information of the screen input information in addition to the fingerprint information and the screen input information. The input processing module determines the screen input information drawn in the display by combining one or more of a spelling a character a string a digit a symbol a figure and a pattern. The input processing module determines the screen input information comprising one or more of trace information of the drag in one or more areas of the display which is divided into one or more virtual areas drag time information drag length information and a distance from an initial input point detected by the display to the fingerprint sensor. When the input means dragged in the display is detached and the drag continues by re touching the display within a preset time the input processing module determines that the input means is not detached in the screen input information. When a drag direction changes the input processing module determines the screen input information comprising one or more of the number of changes and a changed angle. The input processing module resets a slope of the fingerprint information based on the screen input information of the display.

While the input processing module is explained it is controlled by the processor . Further the input processing module is a separate module programmed to control in isolation from the processor . The input processing module programmed to control various embodiments of the present disclosure is controlled by the processor .

The bus is a circuit for interlinking the above stated components and transferring communication such as control messages between the above stated components.

The processor receives an instruction from the other components such as the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface via the bus interpret the received instruction and perform an operation or a data processing according to the interpreted instruction.

The memory stores the instruction or the data received from or generated by the processor or the other components such as the input output module the display and the communication interface . For example the memory includes programming modules including for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . The programming modules is implemented using software firmware and hardware or a combination of at least two of them.

The kernel controls or manages system resources such as the bus the processor or the memory used to execute the operation or the function of the other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel provides an interface allowing the middleware the API or the application to access and to control or manage the individual component of the electronic device .

The middleware relays data between the API or the application and the kernel . In response to work requests received from the applications the middleware can for example control the work requests such as scheduling or load balancing by giving priority of the system resource such as the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one application of the application .

The API which is an interface for the application to control the function provided from the kernel or the middleware includes at least one interface or function for for example file control window control image processing or text control.

The input output interface forwards an instruction or data from the user to the processor or the memory via the bus . The display displays images videos or data to the user. When the display module is a touch screen panel the user inputs the command using the screen input information which touches or hovers such as indirectly touches the display module .

The communication interface connects the communication between the electronic device and an electronic device an electronic device or a server . The communication interface supports a short range communication protocol such as Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or a network communication such as Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS . The electronic device or the electronic device each can be the same as or different from the electronic device in type.

The DETERMINING MODULE DETECTING MODULE detects one or more screen input information through the display module of the electronic device and one or more fingerprint information through the fingerprint sensor . The determination module determines the screen input information obtained through the display module and the fingerprint information obtained through the fingerprint sensor as the matching setting information of the database stored in the electronic device . The matching information controls to perform the function of the electronic device in accordance with the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information.

The PROVIDING MODULE provides the preset function of the electronic device corresponding to the setting information. The PROVIDING MODULE performs the function of the electronic device according to the setting information and display a screen of the function of the electronic device in the display module .

Based on the input to a preset location of the display module the electronic device perform the function corresponding to a preset input type through the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device inputs a command by dragging such as touching dragging or tapping the display module through direct touch or indirect touch such as hovering . The electronic device controls to perform one or more functions by combining the command input to the display module and certification of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device divides the display module into one or more virtual areas such as areas A B and C and detects the drag input which begins in one of the divided virtual areas. The electronic device detects a first input which drags such as drag downwards in a preset pattern by touching a preset point of the area A in the display module divided into the virtual areas A B and C and applies the input means such as a right forefinger to the fingerprint sensor in succession. Alternatively the electronic device detects a second input which drags such as drag downwards in a preset pattern by touching a preset point of the area B in the display module divided into the virtual areas A B and C and applies the input means such as the right forefinger to the fingerprint sensor in succession. The electronic device performs a first function corresponding to the first input in response to the first input and performs a second function corresponding to the second input in response to the second input . As such the electronic device identifies the area where the drag begins in the display module and performs the preset operation according to the start point of the drag.

When the input detected in the display module is the same or similar input type the electronic device performs a preset operation according to the fingerprint information recognized by the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device detects a third input which drags such as drag downwards in a preset pattern by touching a preset point of the area A in the display module divided into the virtual areas A B and C and applies first fingerprint information of the input means such as a right thumb to the fingerprint sensor in succession. Alternatively the electronic device detects a fourth input which drags such as drag downwards in a preset pattern by touching a preset point of the area A in the display module divided into the virtual areas A B and C and applies second fingerprint information of the input means such as the right forefinger to the fingerprint sensor in succession. The electronic device distinguishes the third input and the fourth input including the same or similar drag input of the display module as the first fingerprint information and the second fingerprint information obtained by the fingerprint sensor and performs the preset operations of the respective inputs. The electronic device performs a third function corresponding to the third input in response to the detected third input and perform a fourth function corresponding to the fourth input in response to the detected fourth input.

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to when the display module is divided into one or more virtual areas such as areas A B and C the electronic device detects the start point of the drag which touches a certain point in one of the divided virtual areas of the display module and distinguish the input based on the touch input area including the start point of the drag. The electronic device detects a first input which drags such as drag downwards in a preset pattern by touching a preset point of the area A in the display module divided into the virtual areas A B and C and applies first fingerprint information of the input means such as the right thumb to the fingerprint sensor in succession. Alternatively the electronic device detects a second input which beings by touching a preset point of the area A in the display module divided into the virtual areas A B and C drags to the area B or C and then consecutively applies first fingerprint information of the input means such as the right thumb to the fingerprint sensor . As such the electronic device determines the same input with respect to the input start and the detected fingerprint information in the same input start area A of the display module divided into one or more virtual areas such as areas A B and C and perform the same function with respect to the first input and the second input.

Referring to the electronic device commences the drag input by touching a preset point of the display module drag in a preset pattern and consecutively apply the input means to the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device detects the length of the drag input to the display module before the input means is applied to the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device performs a first input which touches a point of the display module with the input means such as the right forefinger drags downwards and trips the fingerprint sensor with the input means such as the right forefinger . The electronic device detects the length of the drag input to the display module before the input means is applied to the fingerprint sensor in the first input. The electronic device performs the preset function corresponding to the drag length and the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . The electronic device performs the function corresponding to the input of the display module and the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device detects the length of the drag input to the display module before the fingerprint sensor detects the input means and performs the function corresponding to the drag length of the display module and the fingerprint information of the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device performs a second input which touches the same point as the drag start point of the first input with the same input means as the input means of the first input in the display module drags longer than the first input and trips the fingerprint sensor with the input means. Based on the drag length of the first input and the drag length of the second input the electronic device determines different functions corresponding to the first input and the second input. When setting the function of the electronic device based on the drag input of the display module and the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor the electronic device defines the drag length of the display module in two or more ranges.

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device detects the direction of the drag input to the display module or the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor based on the virtual coordinate system of the display module or the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device drags an input of by touching a preset point of the display module so that the fingerprint sensor recognizes the input means in a vertical direction. The electronic device determines the drag direction of the display module or the fingerprint information detection direction of the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device performs the function corresponding to the angle of 90 degrees unit degrees of the determined direction of the input .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device detects the direction of the drag input to the display module or the fingerprint information input direction of the fingerprint sensor based on the virtual coordinate system of the display module or the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device starts an input of by touching a preset point of the display module so that the fingerprint sensor recognizes the input means at a preset angle in the upper left diagonal direction. The electronic device determines the drag direction of the display module or the fingerprint information detection direction of the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device performs the function corresponding to the angle of x degrees such as 120 degrees of the determined input .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device detects the drag input direction of the display module or the fingerprint information input direction of the fingerprint sensor based on the virtual coordinate system of the display module or the fingerprint sensor . When the drag direction changes once or more times in the display module the electronic device detects the changed drag direction. For example the electronic device detects one or more changes of the drag direction which originates from the preset point of the display module in an input of . For example the electronic device detects the input which touches a preset point of the display module drags in a lower left direction and changes the drag direction such as changes y degrees . The electronic device detects the drag which changes the direction and proceeds in the changed direction in the display module . The electronic device detects the fingerprint information of the input means input to the fingerprint sensor in succession to the drag and perform the corresponding function based on the drag input of the changed direction and the input fingerprint information.

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device inputs the drag of a preset pattern to the display module with the input means and consecutively input the fingerprint information of the input means to the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device performs the preset function based on the input information of the display module or the input fingerprint information of the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device detects the input pattern in the display module . The electronic device determines whether the input information of the display module is a preset pattern of the memory . For example the electronic device detects the input information such as a pattern to the display module with the input means and successively obtains the fingerprint information of the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device executes one or more programs for displaying a first webpage corresponding to the pattern input to the display module and display the first webpage in the display module . In response to the input through the display module the electronic device determines the preset pattern of the memory by combining one or more of for example a spelling a character a string a digit a symbol a figure and a pattern.

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to when determining the preset function based on the drag input to the display module and the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor the electronic device determines the preset function based on the input information to the display module . For example the electronic device detects the input information such as a pattern of the digit 5 in the display module with the input means and successively obtains the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor .

When obtaining the input digit information 5 the electronic device detects one or more taps of the input means from the display module during the touch and drag on the display module . The electronic device completes the pattern input of the digit 5 in the display module by detaching the input means during the drag input and then re touching and re dragging the display module with the input means . When the touch is released during the drag input and the display module detects the touch again the electronic device determines whether a time interval between the touch release and the re touch is shorter than a preset time interval. When the time interval between the touch release and the re touch is shorter than the presets time interval the electronic device determines that the corresponding touch and drag follows the pattern input of the digit 5 before the touch release. The electronic device recognizes the preset pattern such as the digit 5 in the display module with the input means successively recognize the fingerprint information of the input means in the fingerprint sensor and perform the preset function corresponding to the input digit 5 and the fingerprint information.

When determining the function based on the input pattern of the display module and the fingerprint information the electronic device may not refer to the drag such as the drag during the movement to input the fingerprint information of the input means to the fingerprint sensor of the preset pattern input to the display module shortly before the fingerprint information is input to the fingerprint sensor .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device determines the corresponding command based on the input of the display module and the fingerprint sensor and the input time information. For example when a first input through the display module and the fingerprint sensor is applied within 3 seconds the electronic device performs the function such as a first program call corresponding to the first input . Based on the first input the electronic device detects the drag input which begins by touching a preset point of the display module with the input means and its drag pattern. The electronic device obtains the time such as 2 seconds taken from the drag to the input means fingerprint information input of the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device determines that the first input of the display module and the fingerprint sensor is completed within 3 seconds and call the first preset program. Alternatively when a second input which is the same as the first input in the display module and the fingerprint sensor exceeds 3 seconds the electronic device performs the function such as a second program call corresponding to the second input. Based on the second input the electronic device detects the drag input which begins by touching a preset point of the display module with the input means and its drag pattern. The electronic device obtains the time such as 5 seconds taken from the drag to the input means fingerprint information input of the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device determines that the second input of the display module and the fingerprint sensor exceeds 3 seconds and thus call the second preset program.

The electronic device obtains the drag input to the display module in the preset pattern the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor and the time taken to input the drag and the fingerprint information. Although the same or similar drag is input to the display module and the same input means inputs the same fingerprint information to the fingerprint sensor the electronic device performs a different function according to the finish time of the second input.

In the electronic device distinguishes the second input finished within 3 seconds and the second input finished over 3 seconds. The electronic device is not limited to the function corresponding to the second input based on the reference time. The electronic device performs the function corresponding to a preset time range according to whether the second input in the display module and the fingerprint sensor falls within one of one or more preset time ranges such as 1 3 seconds 3 5 seconds 5 7 seconds .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device performs the preset function based on the touch duration time of the display module and the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device sets its function corresponding to the time interval such as the touch duration time on the display module between the touch on the display module and the fingerprint information detection of the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device determines that the finish time of an input in the display module and the fingerprint sensor is 2.713 seconds and perform the preset function such as the first program call corresponding to 2.713 seconds based on the setting information. Alternatively when setting the function corresponding to the touch duration time of the display module and the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor the electronic device determines the same fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor even though the pattern input to the display module in the first input of is different from the input pattern of the display module of the input . With the same touch duration time such as 2 seconds of the display module the electronic device calls the first program corresponding to the input .

The electronic device inputs the fingerprint information of the input means to the fingerprint sensor successively drag to a preset point of the area A of the display module divided into the virtual areas A B and C and release the touch of the input means. When the preset function corresponding to the input fingerprint information the successive drag on the display module and the touch release in the area A is a camera mode in the electronic device the electronic device enters the camera mode. Conversely when the information is input to the screen and then the fingerprint information is input in the camera mode the electronic device performs a preset operation not the camera mode.

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . Referring to the electronic device inputs the fingerprint information of the input means to the fingerprint sensor and successively drag a preset pattern on the display module . For example the electronic device inputs the fingerprint information of the input means to the fingerprint sensor successively drag a preset pattern such as a star shaped pattern of the input on the display module and detach the input means from the display module after completing the drag input of the preset pattern. The electronic device performs the preset function corresponding to the input to the display module following the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor . The electronic device presets not only the star shaped pattern but also triangular quadrangular circular and various geometrical patterns input by the user.

Referring to the electronic device detects the drag on the display module . The electronic device determines a slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor based on an input on the display module and the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device traces the drag on the display module and determines the drag slope or a slope change based on virtual coordinates on the display module . The electronic device determines the slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor following the drag on the display module based on the slope of the drag input or the slope change obtained before the fingerprint information is input to the fingerprint sensor .

Referring to the electronic device resets the slope of fingerprint information by applying the slope determined from the drag input to the obtained fingerprint information . For example the electronic device determines the slope of the input fingerprint information based on the slope of the input information to the screen of the display module or the slope change and rotates the input fingerprint information within the detectable range. The electronic device compares the reset fingerprint information with one or more preset fingerprint information.

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . In step the electronic device obtains the input information of the display module and the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device obtains the information input to the screen with respect to the drag input which draws a preset pattern by touching and dragging the display module with the input means and obtains the fingerprint information of the input means input to the fingerprint sensor . When obtaining the screen input information and the fingerprint information the electronic device obtains one or more information about whether the fingerprint information is input first and the information is input to the screen in succession whether the information is input to the screen and the fingerprint information is input in succession the number of one or more taps and re touches and the drags of the input means in the display module during the screen input information input the number of one or more drag direction changes during the screen input information input and the information input time to the screen of the display module .

In step the electronic device determines the preset command based on the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. For example the electronic device determines in the memory the preset command matching the pattern of the screen input information and the fingerprint information and perform the determined operation.

To determine the function corresponding to the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information when obtaining the screen input information determined as the same pattern input and the fingerprint information determined as the same fingerprint information the electronic device sets different functions by determining whether the information is input to the screen and the fingerprint information is input in succession or whether the fingerprint information is input and the information is input to the screen in succession.

The electronic device determines the corresponding function based on the drag time information while still touching the display module in addition to the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. When determining the function matching the screen input information the fingerprint information and the time information based on the setting information the electronic device determines the function matching the touch duration time and the fingerprint information of the display module without considering the drag input pattern on the display module and determine the matching function based on all of the drag input pattern on the display module the touch duration time of the display module and the fingerprint information. Next the electronic device finishes this process of .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . In step the electronic device obtains the input information of the display module and the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device obtains the information input to the screen with respect to the drag input which draws a preset pattern by touching and dragging the display module with the input means and obtains the fingerprint information of the input means input to the fingerprint sensor . When obtaining the screen input information and the fingerprint information the electronic device obtains one or more information about whether the fingerprint information is input first and the information is input to the screen in succession whether the information is input to the screen and the fingerprint information is input in succession the number of one or more taps and re touches and the drags of the input means in the display module during the screen input information input the number of one or more drag direction changes during the screen input information input and the information input time to the screen of the display module .

In step the electronic device determines the setting information matching the screen input information and the fingerprint information by referring to the database. The setting information is stored in the database of the electronic device by designating one or more functions for the combinations of the preset screen input information input to the screen of the display module and the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor. The electronic device includes one or more setting information in the database. The electronic device goes to step when determining the setting information matching the obtained screen input information and the obtained fingerprint information and finish this process of when not determining the matching setting information.

In step the electronic device performs the preset operation according to the determined setting information. The electronic device displays the screen of the preset operation corresponding to the determined setting information in the display module . Next the electronic device finishes this process of .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . In step the electronic device obtains the input information of the display module and the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device obtains the information input to the screen with respect to the drag input which draws a preset pattern by touching and dragging the display module with the input means and obtains the fingerprint information of the input means input to the fingerprint sensor . When obtaining the information input to the screen and the fingerprint information the electronic device obtains one or more information about whether the fingerprint information is input first and the information is input to the screen in succession whether the information is input to the screen and the fingerprint information is input in succession the number of one or more taps and re touches and the drags of the input means in the display module during the screen input information input the number of one or more drag direction changes during the screen input information input and the information input time to the screen of the display module .

In step the electronic device determines the slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor based on the screen input information of the display module . For example when the information is input to the screen of the display module and the fingerprint information is input to the fingerprint sensor in succession the electronic device applies the slope of the screen input information of the display module before the fingerprint information input to the slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor . For example when the fingerprint information is input to the fingerprint sensor and the information is input to the screen of the display module in succession the electronic device applies the slope of the screen input information of the display module after the fingerprint information input to the slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor .

In step the electronic device resets corrects the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor based on the screen input information of the display module . When not determining the same or similar fingerprint information stored in the electronic device as or to the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor the electronic device resets the slope of the fingerprint information determined based on the screen input information of the display module to the slope for detecting the fingerprint information. The electronic device corrects the slope of the fingerprint information by rotating the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor clockwise or counterclockwise.

In step the electronic device determines the preset command based on the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. For example the electronic device determines the preset function command matching the pattern of the screen input information and the fingerprint information in the memory and perform the determined operation.

For example to determine the function corresponding to the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information when obtaining the screen input information determined as the same pattern input and the fingerprint information determined as the same fingerprint information the electronic device sets different functions by determining whether the information is input to the screen and the fingerprint information is input in succession or whether the fingerprint information is input and the information is input to the screen in succession.

The electronic device determines the corresponding function based on the drag time information during the touch on the display module in addition to the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. When determining the function matching the screen input information the fingerprint information and the time information based on the setting information the electronic device determines the function matching the touch duration time and the fingerprint information of the display module without considering the drag pattern input to the display module and determine the matching function based on all of the drag pattern input to the display module the touch duration time on the display module and the fingerprint information. Next the electronic device finishes this process of .

Now an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is explained by referring to . In step the electronic device obtains the input information of the display module and the fingerprint sensor . For example the electronic device obtains the information input to the screen with respect to the drag input which draws a preset pattern by touching and dragging the display module with the input means and obtains the fingerprint information of the input means input to the fingerprint sensor . When obtaining the information input to the screen and the fingerprint information the electronic device obtains one or more information about whether the fingerprint information is input first and the information is input to the screen in succession whether the information is input to the screen and the fingerprint information is input in succession the number of one or more taps and re touches and the drags of the input means in the display module during the screen input information input the number of one or more drag direction changes during the screen input information input and the information input time to the screen of the display module .

In step the electronic device retrieves the fingerprint information matching the obtained fingerprint information from the database. For example the electronic device receives one or more fingerprint information through the fingerprint sensor and determines and store one or more functions as the setting information with respect to the setting information combining the one or more input fingerprint information or screen input information. The electronic device determines the matching fingerprint information by comparing the fingerprint information obtained by the fingerprint sensor with one or more fingerprint information stored in the database. The electronic device goes to step when determining the matching fingerprint information and go to step when not determining the matching fingerprint information.

In step the electronic device corrects the slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor based on the obtained screen input information. For example when the information is input to the screen of the display module and the fingerprint information is input to the fingerprint sensor in succession the electronic device applies the slope of the screen input information of the display module before the fingerprint information input to the slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor . For example when the fingerprint information is input to the fingerprint sensor and the information is input to the screen of the display module in succession the electronic device applies the slope of the screen input information of the display module after the fingerprint information input to the slope of the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor . When not determining the same or similar fingerprint information stored in the electronic device as or to the obtained fingerprint information the electronic device resets the slope of the fingerprint information which is determined based on the screen input information of the display module to the slope for detecting the fingerprint information. The electronic device corrects the slope of the fingerprint information by rotating the fingerprint information input to the fingerprint sensor clockwise or counterclockwise.

In step the electronic device determines the setting information matching the corrected fingerprint information and the obtained screen input information and perform the preset function corresponding to the setting information. The electronic device displays the screen of the preset operation corresponding to the determined setting information in the display module . Next the electronic device finishes this process of .

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a method for operating an electronic device comprising obtaining information input to a display screen and fingerprint information input to a fingerprint sensor and executing a command matching a combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. Wherein the executing of the command comprises determining whether the combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information corresponds to a combination of reference screen input information and reference fingerprint information and when the combinations match performing a preset function corresponding to the combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. Wherein the screen input information and the fingerprint information are input with the same input means. Wherein the screen input information comprises one or more of a gesture for touching the display a gesture for dragging the display and a gesture for releasing the touch with the input means. Wherein the executing of the command further comprises executing the command determined by distinguishing an input order of the fingerprint information and the screen input information. Wherein the executing of the command further comprises executing the command determined by considering input time information of the screen input information in addition to the fingerprint information and the screen input information. The screen input information is information drawn in the display by combining one or more of a spelling a character a string a digit a symbol a figure and a pattern. The screen input information comprises one or more of trace information of the drag in one or more areas of the display which is divided into one or more virtual areas drag time information drag length information and a distance from an initial input point detected by the display to the fingerprint sensor. When the input means dragged in the display is detached and the drag continues by re touching the display within a preset time the screen input information determines that the input means is not detached. When a drag direction changes the screen input information comprises one or more of the number of changes and a changed angle. The fingerprint information further comprises slope information of the fingerprint information which is reset based on the screen input information of the display.

The processor such as the processor includes one or more Application Processors APs and one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor is for example the processor of . While the AP and the CP are included in the processor of the AP and the CP is included in different Integrated Circuit IC packages. The AP and the CP is included in a single IC package.

The AP controls hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and carry out data processing and operations including multimedia data. For example the AP is implemented using a system on chip SoC . The processor controls the sensor module . The processor further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU .

The CP manages data links and convert a communication protocol in the communication between the hardware such as the electronic device and other electronic devices connected over the network. The CP is implemented using for example a SoC. The CP performs at least part of a multimedia control function. The CP identifies and authenticates the electronic device in the communication network using the SIM card . In so doing the CP provides the user with services including voice telephony video telephony text message and packet data.

The CP controls the data transmission and reception of the communication module . While the components of the CP the power management module and the memory are separated from the AP in the AP includes part such as the CP of those components.

The AP or the CP loads and processes the instruction or the data received from its non volatile memory or at least one of the other components in a volatile memory. The AP or the CP stores data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in the non volatile memory.

The SIM card is inserted to a slot formed at a specific location of the electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information such as Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information such as International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory includes an internal memory and an external memory . For example the memory is the memory of . The internal memory includes at least one of the volatile memory such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous DRAM SDRAM and the non volatile memory such as One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM PROM Erasable PROM EPROM Electrically EPROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory . The internal memory employs a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory further includes a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro SD a Mini SD an extreme digital xD and a memory stick.

The communication module includes a wireless communication module and a Radio Frequency RF module . For example the communication module is the communication interface of . The wireless communication module includes a Wi Fi a BT a GPS and an NFC . For example the wireless communication module provides a wireless communication function using a radio frequency. Additionally or substantially the wireless communication module includes a network interface such as LAN card or a modem for connecting the hardware to the network such as Internet LAN WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or POTS .

The RF module controls the data transmission and reception for example the transmission and reception of the RF signal. For example the RF module includes a transceiver a Pulse Amplitude Modulation PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA which is not depicted in the drawing. The RF module further includes a component for example a conductor or a conducting wire for sending and receiving electromagnetic waves in a free space in the wireless communication.

The sensor module includes at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and an UltraViolet UV sensor M. The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects the operation status of the electronic device and convert the measured or detected information to an electric signal. Additionally substantially the sensor module includes an E noise sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor or a finger print sensor. The sensor module further includes a control circuit for controlling its one or more sensors.

The user input module includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . The user input module is for example the input output interface of . The touch panel recognizes the touch input using at least one of capacitive resistive infrared and Surface Acoustic Wave SAW techniques. The touch panel further includes a controller. The capacitive touch panel recognizes the direct touch or the proximity. The touch panel further includes a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a tactile response to the user.

The digital pen sensor is implemented using the same or similar method as or to the user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet. The key includes for example a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input device which obtains data by detecting microwave through a microphone in the electronic device allows radio frequency identification. The hardware receives the user input from an external device such as a network a computer or a server connected using the communication module .

The display module includes a panel and a hologram . The display module is for example the display of . The panel employs for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED . The panel is implemented flexibly transparently or wearably. The panel is constructed as the single module together with the touch panel . The hologram presents a three dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The display module further includes a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram .

The interface includes for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a USB an optical communication port and a D sub . In an embodiment the interface includes for example an SD MMC or IrDA.

The audio codec converts the voice to an electric signal and the electronic signal to the voice. The audio codec converts voice information which is input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module captures a still picture and a moving picture. For example the camera module includes one or more image sensors such as a front lens or a rear lens an image signal processor ISP or a flash LED.

The power management module manages power of the hardware . Although it is not depicted here the power management module includes for example a power management IC PMIC a charger IC and a battery gauge or a fuel gauge.

For example the PMIC is mounted in an IC or a SoC semiconductor. The charging type is divided to a wired type and a wireless type. The charger IC charges the battery and prevents overvoltage or overcurrent from flowing from a charger. For example the charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging type or the wireless charging type. For example the wireless charging type includes magnetic resonance magnetic induction and microwave and further includes an additional circuit such as coil loop resonance circuit and rectifier circuit for the wireless charging.

The battery gauge measures for example the remaining capacity of the battery and the voltage the current or the temperature of the charging. The battery can be a rechargeable battery.

The indicator displays a specific status for example a booting state a message state or a charging state of the hardware or part such as the AP of the hardware . The motor converts the electric signal to a mechanic vibration.

Although it is not depicted the hardware includes a processor such as the GPU for supporting mobile TV. For example the processor for supporting the mobile TV processes media data in conformity with Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow standard. The aforementioned components of the hardware include one or more parts and the name of the corresponding component differs according to the type of the electronic device. The hardware of the present disclosure includes at least one of the components omit some components or further include other components. Some of the hardware components are united to the single entity to carry out the same functions of the corresponding components.

As set forth above it is possible to diversify the command for controlling the electronic device by combining the fingerprint information input to the electronic device and the preset operation input to the display such as the screen input information of the display .

The methods as described in the claims or the specification of exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is implemented using hardware software or a combination of them.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device comprising a memory configured to store information input to a screen fingerprint information and a command corresponding to a combination of the screen input information and the fingerprint information and one or more processors configured to obtain the screen input information and the fingerprint information input to a fingerprint sensor and executing a command matching the combination of the screen input information and the fingerprint information. Wherein the processor determines whether the combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information corresponds to a combination of reference screen input information and reference fingerprint information and performs a preset function corresponding to the combination of the obtained screen input information and fingerprint information. Wherein the processor obtains the screen input information and the fingerprint information with the same input means. Wherein the processor generates the screen input information using one or more of a gesture for touching the display a gesture for dragging the display and a gesture for releasing the touch with the input means. Wherein the processor executes the command determined by distinguishing an input order of the fingerprint information and the screen input information. Wherein the processor executes the command determined by considering input time information of the screen input information in addition to the fingerprint information and the screen input information. Wherein the processor determines the screen input information drawn in the display by combining one or more of a spelling a character a string a digit a symbol a figure and a pattern. Wherein the processor determines the screen input information comprising one or more of trace information of the drag in one or more areas of the display which is divided into one or more virtual areas drag time information drag length information and a distance from an initial input point detected by the display to the fingerprint sensor. Wherein when the input means dragged in the display is detached and the drag continues by re touching the display within a preset time the processor determines that the input means is not detached in the screen input information. Wherein when a drag direction changes the processor determines the screen input information comprising one or more of the number of changes and a changed angle. Wherein the processor resets a slope of the fingerprint information based on the screen input information of the display.

As for the software a computer readable storage medium including one or more programs software modules is provided. One or more programs stored in the computer readable storage medium are configured for execution by one or more processors of an electronic device. One or more programs include instructions for controlling the electronic device to execute the methods according to the exemplary embodiments as described in the claims or the specification of the present disclosure.

Such a program software module software is stored to a random access memory a non volatile memory including a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM a magnetic disc storage device a Compact Disc CD ROM Digital Versatile Discs DVDs or other optical storage devices and a magnetic cassette. Alternatively the programs are stored to a memory combining part or all of those recording media. A plurality of memories is equipped.

The programs is stored in an attachable storage device accessible via a communication network such as Internet Intranet Local Area Network LAN Wide LAN WLAN or Storage Area Network SAN or a communication network by combining these networks. The storage device accesses the present electronic device through an external port. A separate storage device accesses the present electronic device over a communication network.

The term module used in various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure indicates for example a unit including a combination of one or more of hardware software or firmware. The module is interchangeably used with the term for example a unit logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module is a minimum unit or part of the components integrally formed. The module is a minimum unit or part for one or more functions. The module is implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module in the present disclosure includes at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device for performing operations which are well known or to be invented.

At least part of the apparatus such as modules or functions or the method such as operations according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is implemented as for example instructions stored in computer readable storage media in the form of the programming module. When the instruction is executed by one or more processors such as the processor the one or more processors performs the function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage medium is for example the memory . At least part of the programming module is realized such as executed by for example the processor . At least part of the programming module includes for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process for one or more functions.

The programming module according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure includes at least one of the aforementioned components omit some components or further include other components. The operations fulfilled by the modules the programming modules or other components according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are carried out in sequence in parallel repeatedly or heuristically. Also some operations is executed in a different order or omitted or other operations are added.

The computer readable recording medium include magnetic media such as hard disk floppy disk and magnetic tape optical media such as Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as floptical disk and hardware devices specifically configured to store and execute the program instruction such as the programming module such as ROM RAM and flash memory. Also the program instruction includes not only a machine code made by a complier but also a high level language code executable by a computer using an interpreter. The above stated hardware device serves as one or more software modules for fulfilling the operations of various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details is made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

