---

title: Electronic device and method for changing alarm mode
abstract: An electronic device that includes a control module configured to extract schedule related information from text data, change an alarm mode of the electronic device according to extracted schedule related information and create a triggering message for triggering the change of an alarm mode of at least another electronic device associated with the schedule related information; and a communication interface configured to transmit the triggering message to the at least another electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510167&OS=09510167&RS=09510167
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09510167
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150626
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed on Jun. 26 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0079111 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to an electronic device and method for analyzing text data on an electronic device checking a schedule and changing an alarm mode according to the schedule.

In general a user must manipulate an electronic device manually to change the alarm mode of the electronic device in a place such as a theater or an art gallery where he or she must change the alarm mode to a vibration or silence mode from a bell mode.

When an alarm mode must be changed a typical electronic device inconveniences a user who must change the alarm mode manually as described above.

The present invention has been made to address the above mentioned problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below.

Accordingly an aspect of the present invention provides an electronic device and method for analyzing text data included in an electronic device checking a schedule and changing the alarm mode of the electronic device according to the schedule.

Another aspect of the present invention provides an electronic device and method for changing an alarm mode that changes the alarm mode of an electronic device and provides a message to another electronic device included in a schedule to trigger the change of the alarm mode of the other electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a control module configured to extract schedule related information from text data change an alarm mode of the electronic device according to extracted schedule related information and creates a triggering message for triggering the change of an alarm mode of at least another electronic device associated with the schedule related information and a communication interface configured to transmit the triggering message to the at least another electronic device.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method of changing an alarm mode is provided. The method includes extracting schedule related information from text data changing an alarm mode of an electronic device according to the schedule related information and generating a triggering message for triggering a change of an alarm mode of at least another electronic device included in the schedule related information and transmitting the triggering message to the at least another electronic device.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The device includes a communication interface configured to communicate with another electronic device and a control module configured to change an alarm mode of the electronic device to be equal to an alarm mode of the other electronic device according to an alarm mode change triggering message received from the another electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method of changing an alarm mode is provided. The method includes receiving an alarm mode change triggering message from another electronic device and changing an alarm of an electronic device to be equal to an alarm mode of the another electronic device according to the alarm mode change triggering message.

Various embodiments of the present invention are described below in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Since various embodiments of the present invention may include various modifications and have many embodiments various embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in the drawings and described herein. However the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments described herein and it should be understood that the present invention covers all modifications equivalents and or replacements that fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention. In describing the drawings similar components are denoted via the use of similar reference numerals.

The expression include or may include that may be used in describing various embodiments of the present invention indicates the presence of a disclosed corresponding function operation or component but does not exclude one or more additional functions operations or components. Furthermore it should be understood that the term includes or has in various embodiments of the present invention indicates the presence of characteristics numbers steps operations components parts or combinations thereof represented in the present invention but does not exclude the presence or addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations components parts or combinations thereof.

The expression or in the various embodiments of the present invention includes any and all combinations of words enumerated together with the expression. For example the expression A or B may include A B or both A and B.

The expression a first a second firstly or secondly in various embodiments of the present invention may modify various components of various embodiments of the present invention but does not limit corresponding components. For example the expressions above do not limit the order and or importance of corresponding components. The expressions above may be used to distinguish one component from another component. For example both a first user device and a second user device are user devices that are mutually different user devices. For example without departing from the scope of various embodiments of the present invention a first component may be called a second component and similarly the second component may also be called the first component.

When any component is referred to as being connected to or accessed by another component it should be understood that the former can be directly connected to the latter or there may be another component in between. On the contrary when any component is referred to as being directly connected to or directly accessed by another component it should be understood that there may be no other component in between.

The terms used in various embodiments of the present invention are used only to describe embodiments of the present invention and are not intended to limit the present invention. The terms in singular form include the plural form unless otherwise specified.

Unless otherwise defined herein all terms used herein including technical or scientific terms have the same meanings as those generally understood by a person skilled in the art to which the various embodiments of the present invention pertain. Terms defined in generally used dictionaries should be construed to have meanings matching contextual meanings in the related art and should not be construed as having an ideal or excessively formal meaning unless otherwise defined in various embodiments of the present invention.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be a device that includes a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a net book computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having a communication function. The smart home appliance may include for example at least one of a TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio set a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic frame.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Computed Tomography CT device a camera and an ultrasonicator a navigation system a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a car infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a navigation device or gyro compass for a ship avionics a security device a head unit for a vehicle an industrial or home robot a financial institution s Automated Teller Machine ATM or a store s Point Of Sale POS device. According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may include at least one of a portion of a building structure or furniture including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various measurement devices e.g. a water electricity gas or electric wave measurement device . An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be one of the above described various devices or combinations of two or more of the above described various devices. Moreover an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be a flexible device. Moreover it is obvious to a person skilled in the art that electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the above described devices.

In the following electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present invention are discussed with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments may indicate a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses the electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device in a network environment according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a bus a processor a memory a sensor module an input and output interface a display a communication interface and a control module . The electronic device extracts schedule related information from text data and changes an alarm mode according to the extracted schedule related information. The electronic device creates a triggering message for triggering the change of the alarm mode of another electronic device associated with the schedule related information. The electronic device transmits the triggering message to the other electronic device .

The bus is a circuit that connects the above described components mutually and transfers communication e.g. a control message between the above described components.

The processor receives a command from the above described components e.g. the memory the sensor module the input and output interface the display the communication interface and the control module through the bus decrypts a received command and performs a calculation or data processing according to a decrypted command for example.

The memory stores a command or data received from the processor or other components e.g. the sensor module the input and output interface the display the communication interface and the control module or generated by the processor or other components. The memory includes programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . Each of the above described programming modules may be configured in software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof. The memory stores an alarm mode change application that is received from an external device such as a server . The memory stores text data. The text data may be included in a text message a chatting message and an e mail message transmitted and received by using an application that enables message transmission and reception to and from the external device e.g. the other electronic device or the server . The text data may be included in data input from a user by using an application that may input the data. The memory may store information on the other electronic device . Information on the other electronic device may include a telephone number a chatting IDentifier ID and an e mail address. The text data may be generated in such a manner that a text image on image data included in the text message the chatting message the e mail message and the data is converted by an Optical Character Reader OCR . To this end the memory may store an OCR conversion program.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for performing an operation or function implemented in other remaining programming modules such as middleware an API or an application . Also the kernel provides an interface that enables the middleware the API or the application to access and control or manage the separate components of the electronic device .

The middleware acts as a go between so that the API or the application may communicate with the kernel to transmit and receive data. Also the middleware may use for example a method of allocating priority for using the system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one of applications to control e.g. schedule or load balance task requests received from the application .

The API is an interface for enabling the application to control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. a command for a file control a window control image processing or a text control.

The sensor module may include a Global Positioning System GPS sensor for checking location information on the electronic device an illumination sensor for measuring an illumination level outside the electronic device and a microphone for measuring a decibel level outside the electronic device . The sensor module provides the control module with external environment information including the location information on the electronic device the illumination level and the decibel level that have been checked.

The input and output interface transfers a command or data input from a user via an input and output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the control module via the bus . The input and output interface may provide the processor with data on a user touch input through a touch screen. The input and output interface outputs through the input and output device e.g. a speaker or a display a command or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the control module through the bus .

The display provides a user with various pieces of information. For example the display may display various screens that operate according to the control module . The display may be configured as a liquid crystal display LCD or a touch screen.

The communication interface establishes communication between the electronic device and an external device e.g. the other electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may connect to a network via wireless or wired communication to communicate with an external device. The wired communication may include at least one of a Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS scheme. The wireless communication may include at least one of a Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System Mobile GSM scheme for example.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the network is a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things or a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present invention a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application program interface the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

The control module extracts schedule related information from text data and changes an alarm mode according to the extracted schedule related information. The control module creates a triggering message for triggering the change of the alarm mode of another electronic device associated with the schedule related information and transmits the message to the other electronic device . To this end the control unit includes a setting management unit an analysis management unit an alarm management unit and a message management unit .

The setting management unit sets an alarm mode change condition according to a user input. The setting management unit executes an application for changing an alarm mode according to a user input or automatically executes the application when the electronic device is powered on.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the setting management unit sets any one of the automatic change of the alarm mode a change after a user check and no change upon the arrival of a schedule generated from text data according to a user input. The setting management unit may set at least one reference word that is the parsing criterion of text data according to a user input. The setting management may set an application for setting text data among applications installed in the electronic device according to a user input. In this case the application may include a text message application a chatting message application or an e mail application that may transmit a message to and receive from the other electronic device and may include a scheduler a diary and a note pad which may input data.

When an application set by the setting management unit is an application that may transmit and receive a message the analysis management unit monitors the application when a message is transmitted and received. When an application set by the setting management unit is an application that inputs data the analysis management unit monitors the application when data is input or regularly.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the analysis management unit monitors the message transmitted to and received from the other electronic device by the application capable of transmitting and receiving a message to check whether reference words set by the setting management unit are included. When the message includes the reference words the analysis management unit parses the message transmitted to and received from the other electronic device to extract schedule related information. The schedule related information may be related to a time a date and a place. The analysis management unit discerns a word representing a time such as 3 o clock or three o clock from the message. The analysis management unit discerns a word representing a date such as tomorrow or 25th from the message. The analysis management unit discerns a word representing a place such as Seoul Theater or National Gallery from the message. When the memory stores the name of a place the analysis management unit extracts the same name as that of the place stored in the message. The analysis management unit checks information such as a telephone number chatting ID and mail address of the other electronic device that transmits and receives a message. When the electronic device performs group message transmission and reception with a plurality of other electronic devices the analysis management unit checks information on the other electronic devices. The analysis management unit may generate a new schedule from checked schedule related information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the analysis management unit monitors data input or stored by an application capable of inputting data to check whether reference words set by the setting management unit are included. When the data includes reference words the analysis management unit parses the data to extract schedule related information. The analysis management unit checks the tagging of the electronic device when the data is input or stored. The analysis management unit checks information on the electronic device . When the other electronic devices are tagged the analysis management unit checks information on the other electronic devices. The analysis management unit may generate a new schedule from input or stored data.

When a schedule checked by the analysis management unit arrives the alarm management unit selectively performs the change of an alarm mode by the alarm mode change condition set by the setting management unit . When the alarm mode change condition is set so that the alarm mode is automatically changed when a schedule arrives the alarm management unit automatically changes the alarm mode when the schedule arrives. When the alarm mode change condition is set so that the alarm mode is changed after a user check when a schedule arrives the alarm management unit may pop up a message related to the change of the alarm mode on the display when the schedule arrives. The alarm management unit may change the alarm mode by user selection. The alarm mode change condition is set so that the alarm mode is not changed even though the schedule arrives and the alarm management unit may maintain the current alarm mode even though the schedule arrives.

According to an embodiment of the present invention when a schedule checked by the analysis management unit arrives the alarm management unit activates the sensor module and checks the current location of the electronic device . When schedule related information includes place information the alarm management unit compares the current location checked with the place information. The alarm management unit may change the alarm mode when the current location is equal or similar to the place information.

When the schedule checked by the analysis management unit arrives the message management unit creates a triggering message for triggering the change of the alarm mode of the other electronic device so that the alarm mode is equal to that of the electronic device .

After changing the alarm mode according to a schedule the alarm management unit in real time or regularly checks external environment information provided from the sensor module . The alarm management unit returns to the alarm mode before the change when external environment information provided from the sensor module changes to a value equal to or greater than a critical value. For example the alarm management unit returns to the alarm mode before the change when the illumination level among the external environment information after the change of the alarm mode according to a schedule changes from 50 Lux Lx to 200 Lx checked after a certain time elapses. The alarm management unit returns to the alarm mode before the change when the electronic device departs from a location equal or similar to the location checked from schedule related information.

According to an embodiment the control module of the electronic device extract schedule related information from text data and changes an alarm mode according to the extracted schedule related information. The control module creates a triggering message for triggering the change of the alarm mode of at least one electronic device associated with the schedule related information. The communication interface of the electronic device may transmit a triggering message to at least one electronic device . In this case the schedule related information may include date information time information and place information.

The control module checks state information that includes the current date the current time and the current location. The control module change the alarm mode when the current data is equal to the date information the current time is equal to the time information or within a critical time and the current location is equal to the place information or within a critical range.

The control module extract schedule related information from a message that is transmitted and received to and from the at least one electronic device through a chatting application a message application and an e mail application. The control module checks information on the at least one electronic device .

The control module extracts the schedule related information from data input through applications including a scheduler diary and note pad. The control module checks information on the at least one electronic device tagged to the data.

The electronic device further includes the sensing module that senses external environment information including location information an illumination level and a decibel level. The control module returns to the previous alarm mode according to external environment information after the change of the alarm mode.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication interface of the electronic device establishes communication with the other electronic device and the control module changes the alarm mode of the electronic device to be equal to the alarm mode of the other electronic device according to an alarm mode change triggering message received from the other electronic device .

Referring to the control module executes an application for changing an alarm mode according to a user input or automatically when the electronic device is powered on. In step the control module parses a message that is transmitted to and received from the other electronic device through the application. The control module parses the message based on various conditions set in order to change an alarm mode according to a schedule. For example the control module may set any one of an automatic change of an alarm mode a change after a user check and no change upon the arrival of a schedule checked from a transmitted received message according to a user selection. The control module may parse the transmitted received message to set at least one reference word that is a criterion for generating a schedule. The control module sets an application for generating a schedule for message parsing among applications that enables message transmission to and reception from the other electronic device . For example the application that enables the message transmission and reception may include a message application a chatting application or an e mail application. The control module sets whether to change an alarm mode according to the alarm mode of the other electronic device upon the reception of an alarm mode change triggering message from the other electronic device .

The control module monitors the message transmitted to and received from the other electronic device using at least one application set as a condition for changing an alarm mode. When there is a reference word in the message as a result of monitoring the control module parses the message. In this case the message transmitted to and received from the other electronic device may include a text message a chatting message and an e mail message. The control module extracts schedule related information from the message parsed. The schedule related information may be related to a time a date and a place and the control module may check information on the telephone number chatting ID or mail address of the other electronic device that transmits and receives a message. For example when a theater and an opera are set as reference words the control module checks whether a transmitted and received message includes at least one of the words. When the transmitted and received message includes at least one reference word the control module parses the message to extract a time a date and a place as schedule related information.

The control module performs step when in step the check of schedule related information including a time a date and a place is completed. The control module returns to step and continues to parse a message transmitted to and received from the other electronic device when in step the check of schedule related information is not completed.

In step the control module generates a schedule for a user of the electronic device with schedule related information on which the check has been completed. The control module may add a generated schedule to an application such as a scheduler a diary or a note pad.

In step the control module performs step upon the arrival of the generated schedule such as a date and time related to schedule related information. Until the generated schedule arrives in step the control module continues to perform step to check for the arrival of the schedule. The control module may further check whether the location of the electronic device checked by the sensor module is equal or similar to the place included in the schedule related information when the generated schedule arrives. The control module performs step when the place included in the schedule related information is equal or similar to the location of the electronic device .

In step the control module changes a preset alarm mode. According to an embodiment of the present invention when a user sets an alarm mode so the alarm mode is changed to a vibration mode or a silence mode the control module changes the alarm mode to the vibration mode or the silence mode.

In step the control module creates an alarm mode change triggering message and transmits it to the other electronic device so that the alarm mode of the other electronic device is changed to the same alarm mode as the changed alarm mode of the electronic device .

Referring to the control module monitors data input or stored by an application capable of inputting data in step . In this case the application may be a scheduler a diary or a note pad. The control module checks for schedule related information in the data. In this case the schedule related information may include a time a date and a place. For example when a theater and an opera are set as reference words the control module checks whether the data includes at least one of the words. The control module parses the data to extract schedule related information when the data includes at least one reference word. The control module may generate schedule based on extracted schedule related information.

In step the control module may perform step upon the arrival of the generated schedule such as a date and time related to schedule related information. Until the generated schedule arrives in step the control module continues to perform step to check for the schedule to arrive. In this case the control module may further check whether the location of the electronic device checked by the sensor module is equal or similar to the place included in the schedule related information when the generated schedule arrives. The control module may perform operation when the place included in the schedule related information is equal or similar to the location of the electronic device .

In step the control module changes a preset alarm mode. According to an embodiment of the present invention when a user sets an alarm mode so the alarm mode is changed to a vibration mode or a silence mode the control module changes the alarm mode to the vibration mode or the silence mode.

In step the control module checks the tagging of the other electronic device to data. When there is the tagging of the other electronic device to the data as a result of checking in step the control module performs step . According to an embodiment of the present invention the control module checks whether the data includes information on the other electronic device such as a telephone number an e mail address or a chatting ID. The information on the other electronic device may be selected among pieces of information stored in a phone book and may be input by a user. In step the control module creates a message and transmits it to the other electronic device so that the alarm mode of the other electronic device is changed to the same alarm mode as the changed alarm mode of the electronic device . The control module transmits a message based on information on the other electronic device included in the data such as an alarm mode change triggering message to the other electronic device .

When there is no tagging of the other electronic device to the data as a result of checking in step the control module performs step . In step the control module continues to perform an ongoing function.

Referring to the electronic device sets various conditions for changing an alarm mode based on a user selection in step . For example the control module may set any one of a automatic change of an alarm mode a change after a user check and no change upon the arrival of a schedule checked from text data according to a user selection. The electronic device sets at least one reference word that is a criterion for generating a schedule from the text data. In this case the reference word may be a parsing criterion of the text data. The electronic device sets an application for generating a schedule through the monitoring of the text data. The application may include a message application a chatting application and an e mail application that enable message transmission to and reception form the other electronic device and may include a scheduler application a diary application and a note pad application which may input and store the data. The electronic device sets whether to change an alarm mode according to the alarm mode of the other electronic device upon the reception of an alarm mode change triggering message from the other electronic device .

In step the electronic device parses text data included in at least one application that has been set. For example the electronic device may monitor the text data included in the at least one application set in step and parse the text data when there is a set reference word. The electronic device parses the text data to extract schedule related information. For example when a set reference word is theater and the text data includes theater the electronic device checks the schedule related information including a time a date and a place from the text data. The electronic device checks information on the other electronic device that transmits to and receives a message from the electronic device when the text data is at least one of a text message a chatting message and an e mail message. The electronic device checks the information on the other electronic device tagged to the data when the text data is data that is input or stored by an application such as a scheduler a diary or a note pad. Information on the electronic device may include the telephone number chatting identifier ID and e mail address of the other electronic device . The information on the other electronic device may be information preset to the electronic device or information input by a user.

In step the electronic device changes an alarm mode upon the arrival of a time or a date checked from schedule related information irrespective of a schedule checked in step such as a place. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may change an alarm mode when a date or a time checked from schedule related information arrives and the electronic device is located at the same or similar location to that checked from the schedule related information.

In step the electronic device creates a message triggering the change of the alarm mode of the other electronic device . For example the electronic device may create a triggering message that changes the alarm mode of the other electronic device to the same alarm mode as the changed alarm mode of the electronic device . In step the electronic device transmits a created triggering message to the other electronic device . The electronic device transmits the created message based on information on the other electronic device transmitting and receiving a message or the information on the other electronic device tagged to data.

In step the other electronic device changes to the same alarm mode as the changed alarm mode of the electronic device based on a received message.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method of changing an alarm mode by the electronic device includes extracting schedule related information from text data changing an alarm mode according to the schedule related information and creating a triggering message for triggering the change of the alarm mode of at least one electronic device included in the schedule related information to transmit the message to the at least one electronic device .

The step of extracting the schedule related information may include extracting the schedule related information from a message that is transmitted to and received from the at least one electronic device through a chatting application a message application and an e mail application. The operation of extracting the schedule related information may further include checking information on the at least one electronic device that transmits and receives the message.

The step of extracting the schedule related information may include extracting the schedule related information from data input through applications that includes a scheduler a diary and a note pad. The step of extracting the schedule related information may further include checking information on the at least one electronic device that is tagged to the data.

Subsequent to generating the triggering message to transmit the message to the at least one electronic device it is possible to further include a step of sensing external environment information including location information an illumination level and a decibel level and a step of returning to the previous alarm mode according to the external environment information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method of changing an alarm mode by the electronic device includes an operation of receiving an alarm mode change triggering message from the other electronic device and an operation of changing the alarm mode to be equal to the alarm mode of the other electronic device according to the alarm mode change triggering message.

Referring to when a user executes an application for changing an alarm mode based on text data an execution screen as shown in is displayed on the display of the electronic device . A user may select any one of items from an alarm mode setting menu . The electronic device may automatically change an alarm mode upon the arrival of a schedule generated text data when an automatic change item is selected from the SET ALARM MODE menu . The electronic device displays a pop up message for checking whether to change the alarm mode on the display upon the arrival of the schedule when a user check item is selected from the SET ALARM MODE menu . The electronic device does not change the alarm mode even though the schedule arrives when NO CHANGE is selected from the SET ALARM MODE menu . When a recommendation item is selected from the SET ALARM MODE menu the electronic device changes to the same alarm mode as that of the other electronic device according to an alarm mode change triggering message when the alarm mode change triggering message is received from the other electronic device .

The electronic device stores at least one reference word input to a SET WORD menu by a user. The electronic device . generates a schedule from text data when the word is discerned from text data on at least one application. The electronic device may set at least one application according to a user selection from a SCHEDULE CHECK APP menu . In this case the SCHEDULE CHECK APP may include a message application enabling text message transmission and reception a chatting application enabling chatting message transmission and reception and an e mail application enabling e mail message transmission and reception and may be an application that enables data to be input and stored such as a scheduler a diary and a note pad. For example when a messenger e.g. a chatting application is selected from the SCHEDULE CHECK APP menu the electronic device parses a chatting message transmitted to and received from the other electronic device through the messenger.

Referring to words and mnemonics such as movie theater movie play opera CGV cinema theater and library may be set as reference words on a setting screen such as and the messenger e.g. a chatting application may be set as a SCHEDULE CHECK APP . According to an embodiment of the present invention a screen on which a user chats with a user GYU SAM of the other electronic device through the messenger may be displayed as shown in . The electronic device monitors a chatting message transmitted to and received form the other electronic device as shown in .

The electronic device parses a chatting message including at least one of set reference words to extract schedule related information. For example the electronic device may detect words MOVIE and THEATER that are the same words as the reference words set by the SET WORD menu in as a result of monitoring the chatting message. The electronic device may extract date related words such as TOMORROW and a time related word such as 3 O CLOCK from the chatting message when the same word as the set reference word is detected. The electronic device may extract a name of SEOUL THEATER from the chatting message to use it as a place related word. To this end the electronic device stores the names of a building and a store according to a user input.

The electronic device checks a date when the chatting message is transmitted and received. The electronic device may check a date of 2014 04 25 based on a checked date and an extracted word TOMORROW when it is checked that the transmission and reception date of the chatting message is 2014 04 24. The electronic device discerns information on the other electronic device from the chatting ID of the other electronic device transmitting and receiving the chatting message and from the telephone number of the other electronic device . In this case the information on the other electronic device may be information stored in the phone book of the electronic device or information additionally input by a user.

The electronic device uses extracted words to generate a schedule related to a user of the other electronic device . The electronic device displays a popup message as shown in as generated schedule related information. Information on a generated schedule such as a date a time name of a user of the other electronic device and a place may be displayed on the popup message .

Referring to when a user executes a scheduler application for generating a schedule an execution screen as shown in is displayed on the display of the electronic device . A user may input the TITLE of a schedule and a START at which date and time the schedule starts. The user may input an END at which date and time the schedule ends and may tag a PARTNER . The user may select the name of a user of the other electronic device pre stored in the phone book of the electronic device to tag user name GYU SAM to the schedule as a PARTNER .

The user may tag another user to a schedule by adding information on another user to a region to which a PARTNER is tagged when information on the telephone number e mail address or chatting ID of the other user to be tagged has not been stored in the electronic device such as a phone book.

Referring to words and mnemonics such as movie theater movie play opera CGV cinema theater library may be set as reference words on a setting screen such as and a TEXT MESSAGE e.g. a message application may be set as a SCHEDULE CHECK APP. According to an embodiment of the present invention a text message received by a server not shown may be displayed as shown in when a user of the electronic device pays for a movie by credit card. The electronic device monitors a received text message to check that the text message includes at least one reference word. For example the electronic device may display a popup message for sharing the text message with another user as shown in when the text message includes the same word as a reference word.

The electronic device may obtain tagging to another user to share the text message through the popup message from a user and obtain a message including a date and a time. The user may select the name of a user of the other electronic device pre stored in the phone book of the electronic device to tag user name GYU SAM as the other user . The user may tag the other user to a schedule by adding information on the other user to a region to which a companion is tagged when information on the telephone number e mail address or chatting ID of the other user to be tagged has not been stored in the electronic device such as a phone book.

The electronic device transmits the text message and the message input through the popup message to the other electronic device for the other user tagged to the popup message when the user presses the OK button. The electronic device parses the message to generate a schedule. The electronic device may extract a date related word such as TOMORROW from the message and extract a time related word such as 3 PM . The electronic device uses extracted words to generate a schedule that corresponds to GYU SAM 4 25 3 PM and SEOUL THEATER .

Referring to the electronic device checks that the SET ALARM MODE menu is set as a user check on a setting screen of and a schedule generated in has arrived. The electronic device displays a popup message for changing an alarm as shown in . The electronic device also displays the popup message when the schedule generated in arrives and the electronic device and is located at a location equal or similar to that set in . The electronic device changes the alarm mode of the electronic device to a silence mode when the YES button is pressed by a user and the electronic device maintains the current alarm mode when the NO button is pressed.

The electronic device changes the alarm mode to the silence mode and transmits an alarm mode change triggering message to the other electronic device that is included in a schedule generated in . According to an embodiment of the present invention when a chatting message is transmitted to and received from a chat partner GYU SAM by using a messenger as shown in it is possible to create and transmit a triggering message for changing the alarm mode of the other electronic device used by the chat partner GYU SAM to a silence mode. According to an embodiment of the present invention when the chat partner GYU SAM is tagged to a schedule generated by a user as shown in the electronic device transmits the triggering message to the other electronic device used by the chat partner GYU SAM. According to an embodiment of the present invention when a movement payment history message is shared with the chat partner GYU SAM as shown in the electronic device transmits the triggering message to the other electronic device used by the chat partner GYU SAM. 

The electronic device checks external environment information provided by the sensor module after the change of the alarm mode. The electronic device checks the external environment information such as an illumination level or a decibel level hereinafter referred to as first external environment information after the change of the alarm mode for a critical time. The electronic device returns to the alarm mode before the change of the alarm mode when the difference between an illumination level and the first external environment information is equal to or greater than a critical value after the time elapses. The electronic device returns to the alarm mode before the change of the alarm mode when the electronic device is located farther than a critical range from the same or similar location to that set in . The electronic device returns to the alarm mode before the change of the alarm mode when a time at which a schedule ends is input as shown in and the end time arrives irrespective of external environment information.

When the SET ALARM MODE menu on the setting screen of is set to AUTOMATIC CHANGE the electronic device automatically changes the alarm mode to a silence mode when a schedule generated in arrives.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device accumulates the number of times that the NO button is pressed on the popup message . The electronic device may not automatically change the alarm mode where the number of times the NO button is pressed on the same place is equal to or greater than a critical value even though the alarm mode setting menu is set to AUTOMATIC CHANGE .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device accumulates the number of times that the YES button is pressed on the popup message . The electronic device may not automatically change the alarm mode where the number of times the YES button is pressed on the same place is equal to or greater than a critical value even though the alarm mode setting menu is set to USER CHECK or NO CHANGE .

Referring to while a recommendation on the SET ALARM MODE menu of is set it is possible to display a popup box displaying an alarm mode change triggering message received from the other electronic device on the display . The electronic device performs a change to the same alarm mode as the changed alarm mode of the other electronic device for another user JI SUB that has transmitted the triggering message when the YES button is pressed by a user. In this case the user name JI SUB displayed on the popup box may be pre stored in the phone book of the electronic device . The electronic device maintains the currently set alarm mode when the NO button is pressed by a user.

Referring to an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention may include a whole or a portion of the electronic device as shown in . The electronic device includes one or more application processors APs a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP such as a processor as shown in executes an operating system or an application program to control a plurality of hardware and software components connected to the AP and performs processing and calculations on various pieces of data including multimedia data. The AP may be implanted as a System on Chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP may further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The AP performs the function of the control module as shown in for example. The AP extracts schedule related information from text data and changes an alarm mode according to extracted schedule related information. The AP creates a triggering message for triggering the change of the alarm mode of another electronic device that is included in the schedule related information.

The communication module such as a communication interface as shown in performs data transmission and reception when there is communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and other electronic devices connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication module includes a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call a message service or a web service through a communication network such as an LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM network . Also the cellular module uses for example a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card to perform the identification and authentication of an electronic device in a communication network. According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module performs at least some of the functions that the AP provides. For example the cellular module may perform at least some multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module includes a communication processor CP . Also the cellular module may be implemented in a SoC for example. shows components such as a cellular module such as a communication processor a memory and a power management module separately from the AP but according to an embodiment of the present invention the AP may be implemented to include at least some such as a cellular module of the above described components.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP or the cellular module such as a communication processor loads on volatile memories commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory connected thereto or to another component and processes the commands or data. Also the AP or the cellular module stores on non volatile memories data received from at least one other component or generated by at least one other component.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module include a processor for processing data transmitted and received through a corresponding module for example. shows each of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as separate blocks but according to an embodiment of the present invention at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated circuit or chip IC or an IC package. For example at least some such as a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented in one SoC.

The RF module performs data transmission and reception such as RF signal transmission and reception. The RF module may include e.g. a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA though not shown. Also the RF module may further include a conductor or wire for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic waves in free space when performing wireless communication. Although shows that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit and receive an RF signal through a separate RF module according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The SIM card is a card that includes a Subscriber Identification Module and may be inserted into a slot that is formed on a part of an electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information such as an Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . The SIM card stores an alarm mode change application that is received from an external device. The SIM card stores text data. The text data may be included in a text message a chatting message or an e mail message that is transmitted and received by an application enabling message transmission and reception to and from an external device. The text data may be included in data input from a user by using an application that may input the data. The SIM card stores information on another electronic device. Information on the other electronic device may include a telephone number a chatting ID and an e mail address. The text data may be generated in such a manner that a text image on image data included in the text message the chatting message the e mail message and data is converted by an optical character reader OCR . To this end the SIM may store an OCR conversion program.

The memory such as a memory in may include an internal memory and an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of e.g. a volatile memory such as a Dynamic Random Access Memory RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM or a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory such as a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NOT AND NAND flash memory or a NOT OR NOR flash memory . The memory stores an alarm mode change application that is received from an external device. The memory store text data. The text data may be included in a text message a chatting message or an e mail message that is transmitted and received by an application enabling message transmission and reception to and from an external device. The text data may be included in data input from a user by using an application that may input the data. The memory may store information on another electronic device. Information on the other electronic device may include a telephone number a chatting ID and an e mail address. The text data may be generated in such a manner that a text image on image data included in the text message the chatting message the e mail message and data is converted by an optical character reader OCR . To this end the memory may store an OCR conversion program.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive such as a Compact Flash CF drive a Secure Digital SD drive a micro Secure Digital micro SD drive a mini Secure Digital mini SD drive or an eXtreme Digital xD drive or a memory stick. The external memory is functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as an Hard Disk Drive HDD .

The sensor module such as a sensor module in measures a physical quantity senses the operation state of the electronic device and converts measured or sensed information into an electrical signal. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB color sensor H a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or a Ultra Violet UV sensor M for example. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include an Electronic nose E nose sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not shown an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not shown an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not shown an InfraRed IR sensor not shown an iris sensor or a fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor that is included in the sensor module . The sensor module uses the gyro sensor B to sense the rotation of the electronic device and convert the information into an electrical signal to provide the AP with the electrical signal.

The input device such as an input module in may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input by using at least one of capacitive pressure sensitive infrared or ultrasonic techniques for example. Also the touch panel may also further include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive technique a physical contact or proximity awareness is possible. The touch panel may also further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a user with a tactile response.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented by using the same or similar method as that of obtaining a user s touch input or by using a separate sheet for recognition for example. The key e.g. the input module may include a physical button an optical key or keypad for example. The ultrasonic input device senses a sound wave via a microphone from the electronic device and check data through an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal and the ultrasonic input device may thus perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may also use the communication module to receive a user input from an external device such as a computer or server connected thereto.

The display such as a display in may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED for example. The panel may be implemented flexibly transparently or wearably for example. The panel and the touch panel may also be implemented in one module. The hologram device may use the interference of light to show a stereoscopic image in the air. The projector projects light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be located internal or external to the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present invention the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub connector for example. Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface an SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA interface for example.

The audio module converts sound into an electrical signal and vice versa. The audio module processes sound information input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone for example.

The camera module is a device that captures still pictures and moving pictures and according to an embodiment of the present invention it is possible to include one or more image sensors such as a front sensor or rear sensor lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. a Light Emitting Diode LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module manages the power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge for example.

The PMIC may be included in an IC or a SoC semiconductor for example. Charging techniques may be classified into wired and wireless techniques. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent overvoltage or overcurrent from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present invention the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of a wired charging technique and a wireless charging technique. The wireless charging technique includes for example a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type or an electromagnetic wave type and an additional circuit for wireless charging may be added such as a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier.

The battery gauge may measure the level current or temperature of the battery or the voltage of the battery during charging for example. The battery may store or generate electricity and use stored or generated electricity to supply power to the electronic device . The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery for example.

The indicator shows the states of the electronic device or a portion e.g. the AP of the electronic device such as a booting state a message state or a charged state. The motor converts an electrical signal into mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing device e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting the mobile TV may process media data according to a standard such as Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to the present invention may include one or more components and the names of corresponding elements may vary depending on the type of an electronic device. The electronic device according to the present invention may include at least one of the above described elements and some elements may be left out or other elements may be further included. Also some of the elements of the electronic device according to the present invention are combined to form an entity which may equally perform the functions of corresponding elements before being combined.

The term module used in the present invention may mean a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more thereof for example. The module may be interchangeably used with the term unit logic logical block component or circuit for example. The module may be an elementary unit or a portion of an integral component. The module may also be an elementary unit for performing one or more functions or a portion of the elementary unit. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module according to the present invention may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and a Programmable Logic Device PLD performing some operations that have been known or will be developed.

According to various embodiments at least some of devices such as modules or their functions or methods such as steps according to the present invention may be implemented as commands stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium in the form of a programming module for example. When the command is executed by one or more processors the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may be a memory for example. At least a portion of the programming module may be implemented e.g. performed by a processor for example. At least a portion of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for executing one or more functions.

In a non transitory computer readable storage medium that has a command capable of controlling the operation of the electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention the command may enable the electronic device to extract schedule related information from text data to change an alarm mode according to the schedule related information and to generate a triggering message for triggering the change of the alarm mode of at least another electronic device included in the schedule related information to transmit the message to the at least one another electronic device.

In a non transitory computer readable storage medium that has a command capable of controlling the operation of the electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention the command may enable the electronic device to receive an alarm mode change triggering message from another electronic device and to change an alarm mode to be equal to the alarm mode of the other electronic device according to the alarm mode change triggering message.

As described above the electronic device and method for changing an alarm mode according to various embodiments of the present invention may analyze text data included in an electronic device to check a schedule and change the alarm mode of the electronic device according to the schedule to minimize the inconvenience imposed on a user who has to change an alarm mode manually.

The electronic device and method for changing an alarm mode according to various embodiments of the present invention may provide another electronic device included in a schedule with a message during the change of the alarm mode of an electronic device so it is possible to trigger the change of the alarm mode of the other electronic device.

The non transitory computer readable recording medium may include a magnetic medium such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape an optical medium such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magneto optical medium such as a floptical disk and a hardware device that is especially configured to store and execute a program command such as a programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM and a flash memory. Also the program command may include a machine code made by a compiler as well as a high level language code that may be executed by a computer by using an interpreter. The above described hardware device may be configured to operate by one or more software modules to execute the operations of the present invention and vice versa.

The module or programming module according to the present invention may include at least one of the above described elements leave out some elements or further include other elements. Operations executed by a module according to the present invention a programming module or another element may be executed by using a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic method. Also the execution order of some steps may vary some steps may be left out or further steps may be added.

In addition embodiments of the present invention disclosed in the specification and the drawings only present examples to easily describe the technical details of the present invention and help to understand the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Thus it should be construed that all changed or modified forms derived from the technical spirit of the present invention in addition to the disclosed embodiments are included in the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

