---

title: Service level view of audiovisual conference systems
abstract: In an embodiment, a machine-readable volatile or non-volatile storage medium stores one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform monitoring a plurality of video conference locations, each of the locations comprising one or more video conference rooms, resulting in creating and storing monitored data; generating service level view data which when displayed on a video display unit concurrently comprises graphical representations of all the locations and all the rooms, and graphical representations of faults associated with each of the rooms. Rooms can include coder-decoders (codecs), cameras, video monitors, and network packet data routing or switching elements. Embodiments provide a holistic view of all video conference rooms in a deployment, with aggregated call usage, quality and fault data, with highly useful graphical management displays.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571358&OS=09571358&RS=09571358
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09571358
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150219
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 120 as a continuation of application Ser. No. 13 892 883 filed May 13 2013 which claims the benefit as a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 246 895 filed Oct. 7 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 441 516 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes as if fully set forth herein. The applicants hereby rescind any disclaimer of claim scope in the parent application or the prosecution history thereof and advise the USPTO that the claims in this application may be broader than any claim in the parent application.

The present disclosure generally relates to network management. The disclosure relates more specifically to managing audiovisual conference systems.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Contemporary video conference systems that use packet switched networks and protocols may consist of cameras video monitors microphones loudspeakers coder decoders codecs and high performance network packet routing and switching equipment. These video conference systems can provide a high quality end user experience if correct configuration and provisioning is achieved for the network elements involved in the audio video path and if fault conditions are monitored so that problems can be corrected. Users and administrators are also interested in knowing whether network elements are adhering to service level agreements SLAs that require particular levels of bandwidth throughput or quality.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In an embodiment the machine readable medium further comprises instructions which when executed causes the generation of service level view data that presents all rooms associated with a plurality of different customers each having a plurality of locations and a plurality of rooms within the locations.

In an embodiment the graphical representations of faults are generated and displayed in near real time in relation to a time at which the monitoring is performed.

In an embodiment the machine readable medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause displaying in association with the service level view one or more of total calls previously processed by all the locations and rooms total number of then currently active video conference meetings involving all the locations and rooms or percentage of current usage of all the locations and rooms.

In an embodiment the machine readable medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause displaying in association with the service level view one or more of total number of all the rooms total number of devices in all the rooms.

In an embodiment the machine readable medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause displaying in association with the service level view one or more of total number of travel mileage saved from use of all the video conference locations and rooms total cost savings from use of all the video conference locations and rooms.

In an embodiment the machine readable medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause displaying the rooms as selectable hyperlinks associated with the rooms receiving user input selecting one of the hyperlinks and displaying room level view data for that room associated with the selected one of the hyperlinks. In an embodiment the machine readable medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause displaying a table of alerts associated with all rooms shown in the service level view wherein the alerts comprise alert identifiers alert names and one or more the selectable hyperlinks which when selected cause launching one or more of a trouble ticket system and an impact analysis system.

In an embodiment the room level view data comprises a graphical representation of each of the at least one codec one or more cameras one or more video monitors and one or more network packet data routing or switching elements and comprises a graphical representation of a fault status of each of the at least one coder decoder codec one or more cameras one or more video monitors and one or more network packet data routing or switching elements further comprising instructions which when executed cause re displaying the table of alerts to show only those alerts that are associated with the room represented in the room level view.

In an embodiment the machine readable medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause displaying in association with the service level view one or more graphical representations of currently active paths connecting two or more rooms that are currently involved in a video conference call.

In other embodiments the invention encompasses a computer apparatus and a data processing method configured with means or process steps corresponding to the functional steps represented in the instructions described above.

In an embodiment the calendar unit comprises a computer process firmware software elements or a combination thereof configured to manage a calendar for an individual group or other entity. In an embodiment calendar unit comprises an instance of a calendar computer program such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK.

In an embodiment message exchange unit comprises a computer process firmware software elements or a combination thereof configured to manage messages such as electronic mail for an individual group or other entity. In an embodiment message exchange unit comprises a message exchange computer program such as MICROSOFT EXCHANGE SERVER.

In an embodiment video conference management unit comprises a computer process firmware software elements or a combination thereof configured to perform video conference call scheduling fault monitoring quality of service provisioning and service level agreement SLA monitoring for network elements involved in video conference calls. In an embodiment video conference management unit is configured to perform the functions that are further described herein.

In an embodiment call manager comprises a computer process firmware software elements or a combination thereof configured to establish voice over Internet Protocol VoIP calls or video conference calls among IP phones and other nodes in a networked system. In an embodiment call manager comprises Cisco Call Manager commercially available from Cisco Systems Inc. San Jose Calif.

In an embodiment one or more of the IP phones A B N is deployed in a video conference room as shown in for IP phone A. In an embodiment a video conference room is coupled to local network through one or more network elements such as switches or routers. In an embodiment room further comprises a coder decoder codec coupled to one or more microphones one or more loudspeakers one or more video monitors and one or more cameras . Cameras may comprise document cameras or cameras for capturing images of persons or things participating in a video conference.

Although the term room is used for purposes of illustrating a clear example the elements of room may be deployed in any location in association with one another. Further network element s broadly represents logical entities that facilitate video conference call placement and communication such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP proxies.

Other elements that are monitored by the system may include virtual agents that provide integration with contact centers unified conferencing systems session border controllers IP to IP gateways directory servers such as LDAP servers and other elements.

Local network may be communicatively coupled directly or indirectly through one or more other local networks wide area networks or internetworks to another video conference room .

In an embodiment the video conference management unit comprises a quality of service management subsystem that provides quality of service QoS provisioning and monitoring a fault management subsystem and assurance of service level agreement SLA terms. Embodiments provide active monitoring of the network elements involved in the audio path and video path of video conferences and can display a system level view for video conferences. The network elements that are monitored may include all elements of video conference room as well as routers switches and other elements that are in a network path between the rooms.

The video conference management unit may comprise or may be coupled to a computer or video display to receive the display of the system level view. In an embodiment a video conference Service Level View provides information regarding the health performance availability and return on investment aspects of a video conference system in a holistic management framework. By collecting data from all video conference devices rooms and locations in a deployment problems can be correlated and associated with calls and the overall status of a location room or call can be determined resulting in more useful and effective management displays. In an embodiment the operational status of a room is associated with the elements that are physically located within the room and the status is also associated with the logical components that support video conference room deployments such as call managers SIP proxies etc.

In an embodiment the Service Level View quantifies an entity s return on investment ROI based on reductions in travel costs and related expenses that are achieved by holding meetings using video conferences rather than face to face. ROI calculations may be performed relative to the travel costs involved between two or more sites.

In an embodiment the Service Level View provides information on impacted business meetings by exposing the scheduled meeting events for a specific room within the context of video conference system availability and health. For example when a particular video conference room is determined to have unacceptable operational or health issues an administrative user can use the Service Level View to view a schedule of meeting events so that the impact of the operational or health issues can be determined.

Logically below the interfaces a discovery path logic unit is configured to discover network elements that are involved in a video conference call and to discover paths between such elements. Discovered network elements can be provisioned with quality of service QoS values that provide treatment for video conference traffic appropriate to ensure a good user experience. In an embodiment QoS provisioning unit is configured to provision QoS values in response to instructions or commands from other elements of unit .

Further discovered elements may be stored in an inventory database coupled to unit and information about the discovered elements may be displayed in a system level video conference deployment display as further described with respect to . For example executing one or more device discovery protocols may result in discovering multipoint switches in multiple different LAN segments and the switches may provide location information in discovery protocol responses. Based on the responsive data unit may update the database with room identifiers and then use the data in the database as a source for generating a view of multiple rooms of an enterprise as seen in . Additionally or alternatively an administrator may configure the database with data describing known customers locations and rooms.

Location information also can be obtained from the phone within a room such as IP phone A of . In an embodiment such phones are configured as part of a device pool in the call manager . The device pool may be associated with a particular site. The site may be identified by the naming convention associated with the device pool or the site name may be a property of the device pool.

Room location information also can be obtained in an embodiment from meeting scheduling software that stores information about all rooms and their geographical location details such as address campus building and other information. Using such location information the rooms can be plotted onto a geographical map.

A monitoring diagnostics unit is configured to monitor codecs microphones video monitors loudspeakers switches routers and other networked equipment that forms part of one or more video conference rooms. Both the QoS provisioning unit and monitoring diagnostics unit are communicatively coupled to a video conference network which may cooperate with or be overlaid on a unified communications network and or network infrastructure .

The monitoring diagnostics unit may periodically poll each monitored device in a video conference room to obtain then current real time operational status information. Intelligent devices such as codecs multipoint switches routers and other network elements may be polled using management protocols such as simple network management protocol SNMP . The status of less intelligent devices such as microphones video monitors and cameras may be obtained by polling a codec for a video conference room which will reply with fault data if ports or interfaces for the microphones video monitors or cameras are not connected or are operating at incorrect impedance or voltage levels. Based on the received status data the monitoring diagnostics unit can update its database and can correlate data for multiple status reports to result in creating and storing aggregated data totals for a particular room.

In an embodiment a statistical analysis unit is configured to evaluate operational and performance data that is collected by the system. Statistical analysis unit may be configured to aggregate data for all devices in a particular room to result in creating and storing a total number of calls in which a room is involved. Statistical analysis unit also can determine which calls are active at a particular time and the endpoints of the calls to yield a total number of active meetings represented by the calls. Statistical analysis unit may be configured to create and update a counter of failed calls and degraded calls. Each room under management may be represented by a row in a database table having values that identify devices in the room and other attributes of the room. Statistical analysis unit may be configured to retrieve from the database of the system a total number of rooms under management determine the number of rooms that are currently in use and divide and scale the two values to yield a percentage of current usage.

Statistical analysis unit may be configured to retrieve and display the total number of rooms under management and the total number of devices under management. These totals may be determined with database queries and arithmetic computation.

Statistical analysis unit may be configured to compute a total number of travel miles saved through the use of video conference meetings. In an embodiment in response to monitoring a SIP call end event indicating the end of a video conference call statistical analysis unit may be configured to retrieve from a directory or other database a city and state in which each call participant is located. Retrieval may be performed based on a user ID of each participant in the call which may be obtained by a query to the call manager for the call. Statistical analysis unit then may issue an API call to a map program or other geographical calculation unit and provide the location of the participant and a known location of a room serving as one call endpoint with a request to calculate mileage or distance.

In response statistical analysis unit may be configured to receive a calculated mileage value and accumulate the value in the database of unit for use in determining an aggregated number of miles saved through the use of video conferencing. Alternatively the system may know for example from the calendar unit that four 4 persons are scheduled to participate in San Jose and three 3 persons are scheduled to participate in Austin the number of persons may be multiplied times the distance between the cities to determine a mileage figure. The database may be configured with a fixed amount per mile that is known to be saved in travel costs a configuration variable representing cost per mile or the database may comprise a table of fixed travel costs between known call endpoints e.g. it costs 500 for one person to travel from San Jose to Austin for one day . Cost values may vary according to the role of the person involved in a call.

Statistical analysis unit may be configured to compute total cost savings for video conference calls by multiplying the fixed per mile amount by the number of accumulated miles in travel that were saved.

In an embodiment a service quality unit is configured to analyze traffic parameters and performance data to form a view of the overall service quality that a video conference room is providing. The service quality unit may obtain service quality data from traffic monitoring sources of several kinds including directly from codecs software agents deployed on other network elements router or switch based monitoring units such as Netflow etc. Service quality unit may include a traffic analysis unit that is configured to analyze traffic types bandwidth usage and other traffic factors.

Unit may further comprise search processing logic that is configured to receive one or more keywords identifying rooms or devices issue a query to a database associated with the unit and display search results to a user as part of a Service Level View of the type shown in . In this way unit can implement a search function that enables a user to enter information identifying a room or device under management and receive a display of the configuration of the room or statistical data relating to video conference calls involving the device.

In an embodiment a video conference Service Level View comprises in part a presentation of the complete operational status of a video conference system and permits a user to request and receive detailed operational status data for specific locations rooms and associated video conference elements.

The service level view is graphically hierarchical using containment relationships so that a user can rapidly determine that a particular room is in a particular location and therefore near other rooms in the same location as opposed to other locations. In an embodiment each monitored room is represented as an icon box or other graphical feature within view . In certain embodiments in which it is necessary to display a large number of rooms or locations the view comprises one or more icons that represent locations and logic configured to generate and display a scrollable pop up sub window for each location when a pointing device is positioned over an icon.

In an embodiment user interface of unit is configured to retrieve data from a database representing locations and rooms under management analyze the data and generate a graphical display as seen in Service Level View . In an embodiment data in the database comprises tables of location identifiers tables of room data in which each row represents a room and comprises a location identifier that maps a particular room to a particular location. Based on this data logic in user interface can determine a hierarchical relationship of rooms and locations and can generate the Service Level View such that locations are represented with rooms contained within the locations. The user interface also tracks the screen location and size of the graphical elements shown in Service Level View so that locations and rooms do not overlap or are represented as icons rather than boxes rectangles or similar shapes when insufficient screen space is available to display all locations or rooms.

In an embodiment view graphically displays the various associated elements of a video conference system such as a communications manager a multipoint switch and a video conference management unit. In an embodiment the fault status of all elements rooms and locations are represented using one or more fault icons that are displayed in association with a location or room . The appearance color or nature of the icon may vary depending on the severity and criticality of a fault. For example a first kind of fault icon A may indicate a critical fault and a second kind of fault icon B may indicate a non critical fault.

In an embodiment performing a secondary selection of an element in the view such as by right clicking on any element in the display causes the system to generate and display a context sensitive menu of data processing functions relating to the element. The context sensitive menu may have launch points for specific troubleshooting tools device managers related cross launches into other management applications or QoS provisioning tools. For example illustrates a further example user interface display for a video conference network management system in which a context sensitive menu has been displayed in response to a user performing a secondary selection of a location. The menu provides functional options for selecting tools showing a path topology identifying non compliant devices and showing devices on a path. Other menus may provide other functions.

In an embodiment user interface further comprises an alerts dashboard displaying all active alerts affecting various components of the video conference system. In an embodiment the alerts dashboard comprises one or more rows each identifying a particular alert. In an embodiment each alert row comprises an alert identifier by which an associated alert can be uniquely identified. Each alert row further comprises one or more data elements for an alert such as tool links which may provide trouble ticketing impact analysis and other functions a timestamp for the last update to the alert and other data elements. In an embodiment the specific contents of an alert row vary according to the nature and severity of the associated alert. For example a relatively minor warning might not provide an open trouble ticket link but instead would provide a launch provisioning tool link so that the user can consider reconfiguring one or more network elements to eliminate the warning.

In an embodiment user interface further comprises a navigation panel . In an embodiment navigation panel comprises a plurality of elements although alternative embodiments may have more or fewer elements. In one embodiment a hierarchical representation is provided of the video conference rooms organized by customer and location. Thus a service provider may use the navigation panel to manage multiple customers having discrete networks with different locations and rooms. In an embodiment selecting an item in the hierarchical representation causes the service level view to update to show the selected item. Consequently the service level view becomes scalable to a large number of locations and rooms. The hierarchical representation can identify a large number of locations and rooms in a hierarchical list and if it is not possible to show all locations or rooms in the service level view then the user can select a subset of the rooms or locations and display only the selected rooms and locations in the view.

Navigation panel may further include one or more search boxes for identifying locations rooms and devices. Search boxes are responsive to user input identifying locations rooms or devices in whole or in part by name model number or keyword.

Navigation panel may further include a call statistics panel that provides names and values for one or more overall system level conference call statistics or metrics. Examples include total calls then currently occurring total number of meetings that are then currently active total number of failed or degraded calls and total percentage of current video conference room usage.

Navigation panel may further comprise a systems statistics panel that provides overall system inventory statistics. In an embodiment systems statistics panel displays a summary of cost savings based on conference completions and configured travel costs between video conference locations. Cost savings may be indicated in a currency such as dollars or in the aggregate distance in travel that has been saved expressed in a distance unit such as miles kilometers etc. Alternatively both cost and distance savings may be displayed. The panel also may indicate the total number of video conference rooms under management and the total number of network devices involved in the rooms.

In an embodiment navigation panel further comprises a fault summary that displays the total number of each category of faults across all locations among multiple locations under management.

In an embodiment an add room button enables a user to add or delete rooms or locations to the display and edit a room configuration and associated parameters. In an embodiment a Show Active Conferences button causes the system to display links between rooms that have currently active conferences. In an embodiment links for different conferences are distinguished by colors or labels and conference details may be obtained by clicking on a specific link or by a mouse over.

Further in an embodiment information in alert dashboard and call statistics panel is automatically filtered based on the selected room and its video conference elements. Thus the alerts dashboard in displays only alerts associated with network elements or other components of the selected room and call statistics panel shows call data only for calls involving the selected room. In an embodiment the service level view displays room elements in room elements panel associated elements in an associated elements panel metrics of interest in panels and location details in a panel .

In this context associated elements in panel means that devices in the room are connected to particular call managers switches or other elements that are not necessarily physically within the associated room but have an impact on proper operation of the devices in the room. In an embodiment an Association Topology button is provided and when selected causes logic in unit to generate and display a topological representation of the devices to which the associated room elements are connected.

In an embodiment room elements shown in room elements panel include primary and secondary codecs display screens cameras microphones speakers projectors IP phones and their fault status. The associated elements represented in associated elements panel may include the call manager to which the video conference endpoint is registered a SIP proxy firewall or other elements. In an embodiment details about the current active conference call in which the room is participating may be shown in details panel . In an embodiment a history of the conference calls that the room has participated in may be shown in history panel .

Location details of the room may be displayed in panel such as a physical address building name or number or location within a campus. Information for panel may reside in a database associated with unit .

In an embodiment a current meeting details panel comprises information identifying a currently active video conference meeting that involves the associated room shown in view . For example panel may display the name or nature of the call other rooms involved scheduled duration of the call elapsed time if the call is in process and status of the call. In an embodiment a history panel indicates values for historical parameters of the current video conference room. For example history panel may indicate the total number of video conference calls that have involved the room the total number of issues and other usage details such as the percentage of utilization. History panel may comprise a call history button which when selected causes the unit to generate a table or other display of details about prior calls. History panel may comprise an issues history button which when selected causes the unit to generate a list of issues alerts faults or other problems that have previously affected operation of the current room. Data for all such values and panels may be obtained from the database of unit .

Thus embodiments provide a video conference Service Level View that provides the complete operational status in terms of faults and performance of a video conference deployment within an enterprise. In an embodiment the Service Level View provides summarized call statistics and room specific call statistics. In an embodiment the Service Level View provides QoS compliance data policy data and policy violation data. In an embodiment the Service Level View provides data describing overall cost savings in currency or distance resulting from an enterprise s video conference deployment.

The ability to display video conference call paths and calls in progress for particular rooms can be used to determine which business meetings will be affected for a specific room within the context of system availability and health. As a result management decisions can be made on the amount of resources to apply to correcting an incident reported by the system based on the business impact of a particular meeting that is scheduled for that room and the associated ROI.

Embodiments are unique in providing system level views of video conference deployments conference call statistics and network related fault performance and QoS information related to video conference deployments. Further room level views are provided so that administrators can view information about all elements in a video conference room rather than a list of devices which may be difficult to correlate to room deployments. Embodiments are novel in part because the Service Level View provides the status of a video conference room in association with the video conference system components that are physically located in the room and in association with the logical components that support video conference deployments.

Embodiments are useful to network management operators and administrators for the operational management and capacity planning of their video conference deployments. These and other users will benefit from the ability to generate and view a holistic display of an overall video conference deployment across an enterprise or multiple sites or multiple locations comprising video conference endpoints as well as video conference and network infrastructure the ability to drill down into rooms to view the specific video conference physical elements and devices associated with each room along with their fault status the graphical display of active paths and locations and the infrastructure elements involved in a conference along with information about the conference itself such as participants rooms locations or schedule with real time fault and service status on all displays.

Embodiments can be configured to provide end to end network monitoring of video conference applications devices platforms and connectivity monitoring as well as network paths between rooms that carry video conference calls. Embodiments implement a video conference network monitoring model that represents multiple devices per room video cameras HD displays CTS codecs microphone speaker document cameras IP phones call managers CTM etc represents multiple rooms at each location and represents interconnections of locations and rooms to form the video conference network.

Embodiments can display a topology map providing a service level view of the video conference network model including the network paths connecting video conference rooms and alerts on the corresponding nodes. Embodiments can display interconnectivity status among locations rooms and supporting devices and applications. Embodiments can provide context sensitive tool launching based on alerts.

Embodiments can implement network and video conference path discovery to detect the network elements on the path between video conference codec locations.

In various embodiments monitoring logic may include per room systems status including inventory details such as type model manufacturer serial number and software version for each component status of video cameras codecs displays IP phones and calls monitoring connectivity among various components and monitoring security status. Monitoring logic also may include monitoring of supporting systems and applications such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK Cisco CT Manager Cisco CallManager and multipoint switches that support multi room video conference calls. Supporting systems also may include IP IP gateways Session Border Controllers Cisco Unified Conferencing for TelePresence CU CT systems etc.

Embodiments may comprise logic to implement performance and utilization analysis for video conference elements such as CPU memory disk and bandwidth usage in terms of octets in out. Embodiments may provide trouble ticketing integration with third party systems.

Embodiments may comprise service quality monitoring logic that determines and reports by polling and aggregating data from end point instrumentation and mid point instrumentation per hop media quality metrics of many kinds. For example for video embodiments can report on packet loss jitter latency per minute average min max as well as burst rates frame rates frame type counts packet counts per minute average min max out of order packets duplicate packets late packets remote call ID duration of call direction initial bit rate and end bit rate resolution and total bytes and packets for the call. For audio embodiments also can report on packet loss jitter delay and MOS per minute average min max out of order packets duplicate packets late packets remote call ID duration of call direction.

Call statistics may be generated and displayed in the service level view or its sub panels and may include total number of calls percentage of successful and failed calls per room location call disconnects abnormal vs. normal and trouble indications. All such call statistics may be aggregated generated and displayed for a particular room or for multiple rooms in a particular location.

Usage reports and ROI analysis reports may indicate for usage the number of calls per week or month and the parties and locations involved in each call. In an embodiment ROI calculations indicate mileage based on usage and relevant travel cost savings. ROI calculations can include the number of trips visits or travel saved from the use of video conferencing.

Capacity planning reports may include room utilization or unavailability of rooms meaning the number of denials of conference setups due to unavailability. Reports also may indicate the number of calls scheduled versus the number of calls actually used. Reports may indicate the meeting schedule time room booking time versus the time of an actual call so that the logic then can calculate room utilization based on the percentage of booked time that was actually used for the meeting.

Other embodiments may provide video conference user experience reports that include per room and per path components availability per room and per path media quality metrics Delay jitter packet loss MOS VMOS etc resource utilization for CPU memory disk and bandwidth per room and per path call statistics trouble symptoms top five issues disconnects unavailability component status etc. and issue isolations at particular locations such as Extranet vs. Intranet.

Service level agreement SLA reports may indicate location room or device availability bandwidth and service quality in comparison with SLA. All such reports may be generated for the region level or location level.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to storage media and transmission media. Storage media includes both non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications. All such media must be tangible to enable the instructions carried by the media to be detected by a physical mechanism that reads the instructions into a machine.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

