---

title: Electronic messaging technology
abstract: Techniques are described for capturing text (e.g., SMS) messages and multimedia (e.g. MMS) messages along with messages and data sent with other communication modalities. The captured information may be used for performing social networking-related, data processing and auditing operations in real-time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09615223&OS=09615223&RS=09615223
owner: AlwaysOn, LLC
number: 09615223
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150114
---
This application is a continuation of prior U.S. application Ser. No. 12 968 138 filed Dec. 14 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 286 135 filed Dec. 14 2009. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 968 138 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 286 135 are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

SMS short message service comprises a method of sending messages to users of mobile devices and other computer devices supporting the protocol. In order to achieve interoperability between wireless carriers SMS is sent via a well defined standards based protocol. This protocol is comprised of multiple predefined parameters each with a predefined octet length for its relevant data. SMS are sent through SMS centers where they are stored before being forwarded to their ultimate destination.

MMS multimedia message service comprises a method of sending messages much larger than SMS which include encoded attachments such as image video and audio among others. MMS also uses a well defined standards based protocol. MMS are sent from mobile devices to a store and forward server which then uses SMS to notify handsets of waiting attachments which are stored separately and retrieved via Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP .

In one aspect a system includes a mobile device application that operates on a mobile device of a user. The mobile device application is configured to obtain a message sent or received by the mobile device over a mobile device communication protocol and is configured to forward the obtained message over a network connection that does not use the mobile device communication protocol. The network connection is different than a traditional wireless signaling or delivery channel over which the message was sent or received. The system also includes a server system that is remote for the mobile device. The server system is configured to receive from the mobile device application over the network connection the obtained message is configured to log in electronic storage the obtained message and is configured to make the logged message available to the user over the network connection using the mobile device or another device.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the mobile device application may be configured to obtain a message sent by the mobile device over the mobile device communication protocol and may be configured to forward the sent message over the network connection that does not use the mobile device communication protocol. In this example the server system may be configured to receive from the mobile device application over the network connection the sent message may be configured to log in electronic storage the sent message and may be configured to make the sent message available to the user over the network connection using the mobile device or another device.

In some implementations the mobile device application may be configured to obtain a message received by the mobile device over the mobile device communication protocol and may be configured to forward the received message over the network connection that does not use the mobile device communication protocol. In these implementations the server system may be configured to receive from the mobile device application over the network connection the received message may be configured to log in electronic storage the received message and may be configured to make the received message available to the user over the network connection using the mobile device or another device.

In some examples the mobile device application may be configured to obtain a Short Message Service SMS message sent by the mobile device over an SMS transport protocol and may be configured to forward the SMS message via Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP over Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol TCP IP . In these examples the server system may be configured to receive from the mobile device application via HTTP over TCP IP the SMS message may be configured to log in electronic storage the SMS message and may be configured to make the SMS message available to the user via HTTP over TCP IP.

In addition the mobile device application may be configured to obtain an SMS message received by the mobile device over an SMS transport protocol and may be configured to forward the SMS message via HTTP over TCP IP. The server system may be configured to receive from the mobile device application via HTTP over TCP IP the SMS message may be configured to log in electronic storage the SMS message and may be configured to make the SMS message available to the user via HTTP over TCP IP.

Further the mobile device application may be configured to obtain a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message sent by the mobile device over an MMS protocol and may be configured to forward the MMS message via HTTP over TCP IP. The server system may be configured to receive from the mobile device application via HTTP over TCP IP the MMS message may be configured to log in electronic storage the MMS message and may be configured to make the MMS message available to the user via HTTP over TCP IP.

In some implementations the mobile device application may be configured to obtain an MMS message received by the mobile device over an MMS protocol and may be configured to forward the MMS message via HTTP over TCP IP. In these implementations the server system may be configured to receive from the mobile device application via HTTP over TCP IP the MMS message may be configured to log in electronic storage the MMS message and may be configured to make the MMS message available to the user via HTTP over TCP IP.

In some examples the mobile device application may be configured to obtain an MMS message sent or received by the mobile device over an MMS protocol and send over the network connection to the server system a first message that indicates an un encoded MMS message of a particular size is available. In these examples the server system may be configured to receive over the network connection from the mobile device application the first message assign a message identifier to the un encoded MMS message and send over the network connection to the mobile device application an acknowledgement message that acknowledges receipt of the first message and includes the message identifier. Further in these examples the mobile device application may be configured to assign the message identifier to a queue track offset status for the un encoded MMS message in association with the message identifier and send over the network connection to the server system chunks of the un encoded MMS message each in association with the message identifier and a byte offset. The byte offset may indicate which portion of the un encoded MMS message is included in the associated chunk. The server system may be configured to receive over the network connection from the mobile device application the chunks of the un encoded MMS message determine when all of the chunks of the un encoded MMS message have been received reassemble the un encoded MMS message based on byte offset information associated with the chunks encode the reassembled un encoded MMS message and store in electronic storage the encoded MMS message.

The mobile device application may be configured to access from the mobile device contact and contextual data relevant to the obtained message and forward over the network connection to the server system the accessed contact and contextual data with the obtained message. The server system may be configured to develop or evaluate and modify a contact list for the user by iteratively gathering contact data for contacts with which the user exchanges communications and aggregating the contact data into a contact list for the user based on actual interactions of the user and the contacts.

In some examples the server system may be configured to trigger operations related to deriving social network connections for the user based on receiving the obtained message and may be configured to in response to triggering the operations related to deriving social network connections derive in real time and without user intervention one or more social network connections for the user based on the obtained message and other messages that have been forwarded to the server system and that are associated with the user. In these examples the server system may be configured to interrogate the mobile device application for additional information relevant to social network connections for the user receive the additional information from the mobile device application and use the additional information in deriving social network connections for the user. Further in these examples the server system may be configured to notify the user of at least one new social network connection event or relationship derived in real time and without user intervention based on the obtained message and other messages that have been forwarded to the server system and that are associated with the user.

In addition the server system may be configured to receive in addition to the obtained message and over communication modalities that are different than a communication modality over which the obtained message was exchanged between the user and another user messages exchanged between the user and the other user and thread into a single conversation thread the obtained message with the messages exchanged between the user and the other user over the communication modalities that are different than the communication modality over which the obtained message was exchanged. The server system also may be configured to audit the obtained message and other messages communicated by the user for compliance with one or more rules of a government or regulatory organization that govern communications engaged in by the user with the mobile device parental control and monitoring or other activity and content approval.

Further the server system may be configured to construct a social network based on aggregated data received from mobile devices by performing contact data analysis on contact data aggregated by the server system performing message content and context analysis on message and context data aggregated by the server system performing metadata and other user or device content analysis on metadata and other user or device content aggregated by the server system and performing relationship and network building based on the contact data analysis the message content and context analysis and the metadata and other user or device content analysis. The server system may be configured to perform semantic advertisement service based on the obtained message and other mobile messaging content.

In some implementations the mobile device application may be configured to send over the network connection to the server system a first message that indicates un encoded data of a particular size is available. In these implementations the server system may be configured to receive over the network connection from the mobile device application the first message assign a data identifier to the un encoded data and send over the network connection to the mobile device application an acknowledgement message that acknowledges receipt of the first message and includes the data identifier. Also in these implementations the mobile device application may be configured to assign the data identifier to a queue track offset status for the un encoded data in association with the data identifier and send over the network connection to the server system chunks of the un encoded data each in association with the data identifier and a byte offset. The byte offset may indicate which portion of the un encoded data is included in the associated chunk. Further in these implementations the server system may be configured to receive over the network connection from the mobile device application the chunks of the un encoded data determine when all of the chunks of the un encoded data have been received reassemble the un encoded data based on byte offset information associated with the chunks encode the reassembled un encoded data and store in electronic storage the encoded data.

In another aspect a mobile device application operates on a mobile device of a user based on instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium of the mobile device. The mobile device application is configured to perform operations that include obtaining a message sent or received by the mobile device over a mobile device communication protocol. The operations also include forwarding the obtained message over a network connection that does not use the mobile device communication protocol. The network connection is different than a traditional wireless signaling or delivery channel over which the message was sent or received and the forwarded message is received by a server system that is remote for the mobile device. The server system is configured to receive from the mobile device application over the network connection the obtained message is configured to log in electronic storage the obtained message and is configured to make the logged message available to the user over the network connection using the mobile device or another device.

In yet another aspect a server system includes at least one processor and at least one memory coupled to the at least one processor having stored thereon instructions which when executed by the at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform operations. The operations include receiving over a network connection from a mobile device application that operates on a mobile device of a user a message obtained by the mobile device application. The obtained message had been sent or received by the mobile device over a mobile device communication protocol and had been forwarded by the mobile device application over a network connection that does not use the mobile device communication protocol. The network connection is different than a traditional wireless signaling or delivery channel over which the message was sent or received. The operations also include logging in electronic storage the received message and making the logged message available to the user over the network connection using the mobile device or another device.

Implementations of the described techniques may include hardware a method or process implemented at least partially in hardware or a computer readable storage medium encoded with executable instructions that when executed by a processor perform operations.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Techniques are described for capturing text e.g. SMS and multimedia e.g. MMS messages along with messages sent with other communication modalities contacts location and metadata. The captured message information may be used for performing social networking related operations as well as user and device monitoring. In the below detailed description the various sections describe aspects of an electronic messaging and communication system that captures message information and uses the captured message information for performing social networking related operations. In some implementations the electronic messaging and communication system may include all of the aspects described in the below sections and may provide all of the features described below in a single system. In other implementations the electronic messaging and communication system may include any combination of one or more of the aspects described in the below sections and may provide any combination of one or more of the features described below.

Section 1 Method and System for Out of Band Delivery Persistent Storage and Data Manipulation of SMS and MMS.

The disclosed system delivers incoming and outgoing SMS and MMS to a designated server over any available network connections without utilizing the SMS or MMS protocol or infrastructure. The disclosed implementations comprise four general areas 1 Mobile device specific applications 2 Communication and data processing services 3 Presentation services and 4 Storage solutions. illustrates an example system with these components which are elaborated upon in further sections. The system includes mobile device specific applications communication and data processing services presentation services and storage services .

Mobile device applications comprise a group of applications that run on the mobile device. Upon the device receiving an SMS or MMS the mobile device applications deliver the message and relevant metadata to a central processing server where it is encoded and stored. The system may include any number of one or more mobile device applications .

The mobile device applications also query the mobile device for more data relevant to the SMS MMS. If found the mobile device applications may forward to the central processing server the additional data relevant to the SMS MMS as related data associated with the forwarded message. The additional data relevant to the SMS MMS may include a standards based contact entry in an address book such as V Card for the sender or recipient of the message as well as calendar photos video and other files and media which the application derives is associated with the sender or recipient. The mobile device application may also bulk upload contact information in order to facilitate communication and data processing services.

Communication and processing services comprise a group of services that communicate with the mobile devices and process the data they forward. These processes also include logic and services which intuit social connections based on the contact data that is sent contextual processing of the content of the messages and ad serving technologies that utilize behavioral data derived from the former and other parts of the system. The system may include any number of one or more communication and processing services . The system may include processing services in the form of application programming interfaces to facilitate third party interaction with the processes. The services may be centralized or distributed.

The communication and processing services also include network management and connection processes which permit users of the system to maintain connections to multiple third party internal or third party messaging and social networks.

The communication and processing services also organize e.g. thread conversations for users and provide auditing facilities to track and react to this communication. The data can then be used by third party systems or by the presentation services as discussed below.

Presentation services comprise a group of server side and client side services which manage presentation of user data. Server side components may be centralized or distributed. Users who access the system via the Internet using a web browser maintain constant communication with the presentation services . These presentation services in turn provide the user with access to data sent and received from their mobile devices storage of the same and other assets and visibility into their network as it builds in real time notifications and other data and event driven events. The system may include any number of one or more presentation services .

The presentation services also present users with an address book derived from their actual SMS and MMS correspondence with users in other words their own social network as derived from their explicit actions or those explicit actions of their peers and the associated contact and meta data as derived by the system in real time. The system derives social networks for users based on their actual communications and actions without any input being required by the users. In this regard the system derives a dynamic social network for a user in real time that reflects the actual messages communications and other actions performed by the user without requiring the user to provide information identifying which other users should be included in the user s social network.

Storage services comprise a group of processing and data base storage solutions which manage message content context and contact data derived through use of the system. The system may include any number of one or more storage services . The storage services may include processing services in the form of application programming interfaces to facilitate third party interaction with system . Storage services may be centralized or distributed.

Storage services manage encoding and processing of messages and their attachments and their safe storage for later access by system users. They also log all messages which are sent and received by use of the system through a web browser use of which may involve communication and messaging with a number of messaging and social networks. This data is likewise managed and stored by the storage services .

These storage services also manage users contacts and social networks as they are built and provide access to same by Communication and data processing services Presentation services as well as via application programming interfaces.

These storage services further manage context e.g. through processing of message payloads and other metadata useful for targeting and profiling of users. The context and other metadata may be used to create a profile for a user that reflects the actual messages communications and other actions performed by the user over multiple different communication modalities.

As shown in the system includes one or many mobile devices and server services that are operated on one or more server systems. The mobile device specific applications discussed above with respect to may be operated on the mobile devices and the server services may include the communication and data processing services presentation services and storage services discussed above with respect to .

The mobile devices may include an application that sends and receives SMS MMS messages or other message types. The mobile devices also may include an application that obtains sent received messages from the device and an application that performs address book and relationship queries. The mobile devices further may include a network connection manager application a queue and priority management application and a raw data identification and offset management application and error correction management. The mobile devices use the applications and to send message and relationship data regarding exchanged SMS MMS messages to the server services over a network e.g. one or more wireless networks . The network may be a different communication medium than the communication medium over which the actual SMS MMS messages are exchanged.

The server services may include a message communication service that receives the message and relationship data . An encoding service encodes the message data and a message processing service that processes the encoded message data. A message logging and threading service performs message logging and threading operations and stores data in message storage . A message parsing service receives message data from the message logging and threading service parses the payload from the message data and stores the parsed payload in the message storage . A social network processing service analyzes message and contact data to derive social network connections and relationships as described throughout this disclosure. The derived social network connections and relationships are stored in contacts and social networks storage . An address book service performs contact handling operations and communicates with the social network processing service to inform social network derivation and application programming interfaces facilitating internal or external systems interaction with data.

Presentations services control presentation of data to Internet users via HTTP services . Authentication and security services control user access to the system and control whether remote users can view and or send message data using the system. Network connection management service manages network connections with other social and messaging networks to allow a user to be persistently logged on to the other social and messaging networks through the system and to capture user interactions from the other social and messaging networks . Presentations services also communicate with GWT and presentation and interaction facilitating services to inform symantec advertising services . The symantec advertising services perform symantec advertising operations described throughout this disclosure based on data from the GWT and presentation and interaction facilitating services and behavioral and contextual data stored in the behavioral and contextual data storage . Other user data stored in other user data storage also may be used by the Symantec advertising services . The Symantec advertising services communicate with other advertising networks to present relevant advertisements to users and or to gain additional information to better select advertisements for users.

Techniques are described for delivery of SMS and MMS to one or more service servers for processing and persistent storage of messages. These servers may be centralized or distributed. Centralization of any one component set such as a front end does not preclude distribution of other services.

Delivery of messages may be accomplished in real time. For instance once a message is received on the mobile device it is immediately delivered on to the service for processing.

An example high level use case is described below which illustrates the utility of out of band SMS and MMS forwarding and message management. illustrates an example use case of out of band SMS and MMS forwarding and message management.

In a wireless actor who has an application provided by the messaging system installed on their mobile device sends or receives an SMS or MMS message. These messages are then delivered to the messaging system . At the same time relevant contact and contextual data from the device is also delivered to the messaging system .

The SMS and MMS message delivery is effectively out of band at this point. Messages are not sent using the traditional wireless signaling or delivery channels nor with the normal SMS and MMS protocol. Rather they are delivered directly to the messaging system servers after determining which of the available alternate network methods provides the best connectivity and performance. At this point delivery may be over standards based protocol. Delivery may be facilitated by the method described below in and further in utilizing a proprietary delivery method which is part of the messaging system.

In turn an Internet based actor may access their messaging system account and retrieve these stored messages from the messaging system . They also may log into multiple alternate messaging and social networks and communicate with members of these networks . All data from these communications will be likewise stored by the messaging system .

Finally a dotted line connects the Wireless actor with Internet access as many wireless devices will provide this same type of Internet browsing HTTP access to the portion of the system via a web browser of a wireless device.

The SMS is sent to the wireless carrier using the SMS Transport Protocol SMSTP . The SMS based application implements with the SMSTP Protocol Stack. In this example the message is sent on the Short Message Service Center SMSC where it is stored and then forwarded to another SMSC for delivery to the final recipient over the wireless carrier . In this example both Jane and Jen s mobile devices are Short Message Entities SME in the system.

Further in actor Jane has an application provided by the messaging system installed on her mobile device. Here each SMS she sends and receives is retrieved from the device by the application and delivered on using the best available data connection via HTTP over TCP IP to the messaging system service . If using the wireless carrier this data could go over the Internet to the destination or in the case where the system is resident within a carrier infrastructure over an internal or private network. If using a Wi Fi or other wireless connection the data goes through the local access point to the Internet and on to the messaging system service . In either case this may happen in real time within milliseconds of the device completing a send or receive of an SMS message. Accordingly the actor s content context location and metadata are updated in real time on the service.

In . Jane and Jen are described as the sole actors for brevity. The system is designed for a carrier scale actor base where many more actors exchange messages.

In Jane Jen and Jack are actors in an MMS environment. Jane as a wireless actor sends an MMS to Jen and Jack . This message is encoded and sent through the carrier to the MMS Center MMSC . The MMSC comprises several systems servers and functions. Part of its function is to determine the capabilities of the recipient mobile device.

In the case of Jen the MMSC determines to deliver the MMS message through the wireless carrier based on the capabilities of Jen s mobile phone. Accordingly. Jon s mobile phone receives an SMS control message notifying her of Jane s MMS message and her phone retrieves the encoded portion of the MMS the attachment via HTTP.

In the case of Jack the MMSC determines to deliver the MMS message directly based on the capabilities of Jack s mobile device. Accordingly Jack is sent an email with a URL notifying him that a multimedia message has been sent and the URL points to a location where the message can be retrieved.

There are many other cases involving MMS delivery that may be used. Implementations may include other cases of MMS delivery where MMS delivery is occurring through a dedicated MMS infrastructure and process.

Further in Jane as wireless actor has an application provided by the messaging system installed on her mobile device. Her sent or received MMS is forwarded to the messaging system service via the wireless carrier along with contact location and metadata or via local network connectivity such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi from the mobile device via HTTP depending on the best available processes within the messaging system mobile device application. The messaging system mobile device application also utilizes recent or historical usage characteristics and the amount of data included in the message to determine the best connection method.

Finally Jane or a third party system as an Internet based actor may also retrieve her MMS messages and attachments via a web browser over the Internet . This may include mobile device retrieval on a device with such capabilities from a personal computer or via application programming interface by a third party system.

In Jane Jen and Jack are described as the sole actors for brevity. The system is designed for a carrier scale actor base where many more actors exchange messages.

When an SMS message is sent or received the mobile device application acquires the message and sender or recipient list from the device . This is accomplished using different methods on different mobile devices and is dependent upon device operating system and capabilities.

When a message is obtained by the application the remote party s contact details are retrieved from the device . For instance the remote party s contact details may be retrieved from an address book storage that stores contact details for the mobile device.

Further queries of the device may be performed based upon the contents of the contact details. Systems that may be queried include the device calendar device storage and other media within the device providing meta data such as time location biometrics device activity user interaction characteristics and more. Any information from the device may be queried and retrieved for delivery with the SMS message. The additional information may be used for context of the interaction to enable the messaging system to learn more about the interaction and provide enhanced processing of the SMS message based on the additional information.

The final message or messages are assembled into a message object which includes the SMS message and relationship data e.g. additional information retrieved based on the queries . The message object may be passed on to a queue where each message s priority is evaluated . The queue includes outbound messages their priority and status and re queued messages that have failed for various network or device anomalies such as data transmission errors network timeouts and data connection type failure as determined by Network Connection Management .

The system includes Network Connection Management that derives the best available network connection to use to send data to the messaging system servers . This is evaluated based on multiple factors including network type availability and historical performance. Once a message is ready to be delivered the appropriate device and security information is appended . The appropriate device and security information may be appended by evaluating the device capabilities and or installed applications .

Once a message is sent to the messaging system servers a response code is generated by a message management service . The response code is sent back to the mobile device. The response code indicates whether the message has been successfully received included errors failed for some reason and whether there is any further action requested by the messaging system servers . The response code is passed to a response code manager which performs logging of response codes and data indicating success failure of message transfer and interacts with a system message manager to ensure messages are properly transferred and appropriate actions are taken in the Client of a failure. When further action is requested by the messaging system servers response code manager initiates an interrogation response process to collect more information from the mobile device or determine that the requested information does not exist.

The messaging system servers may indicate that there are notifications for the mobile device user and a facility is provided by the mobile device application to present the user with this notification in real time. This further permits contextual social and location based notifications to be facilitated without any explicit user interaction with the system.

The messaging system servers may also return a response code which requests the mobile device to further interrogate the mobile device system for further relationship data system capabilities application logs or any other available data accessible by the device. The interrogation response process may be used to satisfy the request.

MMS processing utilizes the same component flow as stated for SMS in with the variance described herein and in .

Encoding of large MMS attachments in preparation for transfer to the messaging system server services may affect the performance of the mobile device. A solution was implemented which permits the mobile device to forward the MMS message and multi media attachments without encoding on the device. This method is defined further in Section 8.

From the mobile device application the components illustrated in Figure as Queue and Priority Management Network Connection Manager and Response Code Manager perform additional functions when processing MMS. Likewise from the Message Management Service in the messaging system server services location performs additional duties when managing MMS. These additional duties are highlighted in . In this regard illustrates an example of managing MMS messages.

Instead of using mobile device system resources to encode MMS messages the mobile device application notifies the messaging system server services that it would like to send a large un encoded file of total byte length N .

The messaging system acknowledges this and provides a message ID to assign to the incoming MMS message . The message ID may be communicated to the mobile device application by the messaging system over a wireless network. Upon receipt the mobile device application assigns the message ID to a queue associated with the MMS message and tracks offset status for transfer of the MMS message .

The MMS message will now be sent in fixed byte length chunks to the messaging system. Each chunk will include the message ID assigned and an offset indicating up to what number of the total bytes in the message is being sent .

The messaging system server will respond with success or failure for each chunk and the Response Management and Queue and Priority Management on the Mobile Device will manage subsequent chunks. For instance the mobile device application may determine whether transmission of each chunk was a success or failed and continue to attempt to transmit chunks that have failed in transmission .

Once the final byte is received the server will notify the Mobile Device encode the message and forward it to Storage Services for processing and storage .

This approach may free the mobile device from the processing and encoding of large media and may transfer the effort to the Server Systems and is defined further in Section 8. Of course this method will also facilitate uploading of otherwise encoded data maximizing system performance and network availability.

Section 3 Method and System for Social Network Creation Expansion and Update with Mobile Device Interrogation.

An example high level use case is described below which illustrates human network connections being derived in real time. A trigger to deriving the connection is the sending or receiving of an SMS MMS message from a given contact. As messages are forwarded to the messaging system servers as defined in Sections 1 and 2 contact information and other relevant data such as media files calendar appointments and notes may be sent as well. The contact becomes part of the user s observed network in real time. In turn more information can be derived through query of the messaging system about the connection extending the reach and context of the relationship s . In the case where the system has already acquired a contact or acquired contact data in bulk this interaction further facilitates the social networking processes to ascribe relevance to discrete contacts in real time.

The social network connection is derived from actual behavior as opposed to a subject s self defined social network or implied network from other users. For example the social network is derived in real time rather than after the fact data processing which allows for the context and content of a message or messages to affect the social network definition manages changes to the network based on real time data provided from the mobile devices and provides a mechanism to interrogate the mobile device for further relationship context and content data. The social network connection is derived without requiring input from the user other than behaviors the user has already undertaken using his or her mobile device and or other communication devices.

Upon sending or receiving an SMS or MMS message the message is processed by the MCE. The contents of the message system data message data geographic location remote sender recipient data and other relevant data are sent to the messaging server system as described above in Section 2.

If a contact entry is included on the device for the remote message sender recipient that contact data is also delivered to the messaging server system.

If related content such as a document multimedia calendar notes or other data on the mobile device includes data relevant to the remote sender recipient the meta data or actual content of such data may be delivered to the messaging server system.

The data e.g. message content contact entry related content etc. is sent to the messaging server system by a message and network management component of the MCE. Once the data is received by the messaging server system the social network is built in real time . This allows third party applications to comprehend the social links of a wireless user in real time and to react to same.

The disclosed system provides a facility to derive the social network based on the remote sender recipient and further interrogate local and remote databases for further relationships in real time.

The system provides a facility to derive and record the context of the discourse between the wireless user and the remote sender recipient. This data is likewise stored and can be accessed in real time by the system and third party applications.

The disclosed system provides a facility to derive further contextual event and human relationships based on other data delivered from the mobile device which was determined to be relevant to the discourse with the remote sender recipient. The facility evaluates all of the information received from the mobile device and available through other channels to derive without user input a social network for the user in real time based on actions being taken by the user and other contextual information associated with those actions e.g. other contact data geographic location information etc. .

Ad serving logic leverages these relationship and context data to make assertions about what ad server systems to query and or what ads to serve to the user.

The data is then made available is Application Programming Interfaces API s and a presentation layer for third party systems to query and for the user to access is multiple types of Internet connections. The API s provide access to third party systems developers and interfaces that can leverage relationship and contextual relationship to provide enhanced features.

The messaging server system also includes a facility for offline data processing and network mining. The facility may analyze data collected by the messaging server system regarding specific users or groups of users and derive further information about relationships and interactions based on the analysis. Because the facility processes data when the user is offline the facility may be configured to perform more detailed analysis and may consider more information than the facility that derives real time social networks. For instance the facility may analyze information collected over a greater period of time to derive historical trends and relationships for one or more users over a longer period of time e.g. weeks months years etc. .

The system is configured to perform a process for mobile device interrogation based on an inquiry from the messaging server system. illustrates an example process for mobile device interrogation based on an inquiry from the messaging server system. In during processing of the real time data received from the wireless device the system determines whether additional information is required or would be helpful in deriving relationships . If during processing of the real time data received from the wireless device or based on system or manual cue the system determines that additional information is required or would be helpful an interrogation process sends a request from the server which notifies the mobile device application e.g. AO MCE that further information related to a specific message or user is requested. The device software will query the mobile device for further relevant data and forward it back to the messaging server system. The system updates one or more databases with the real time data received from the wireless device. If additional relevant data was requested and received the system updates one or more databases with the additional relevant data along with the initial real time data e.g. message object data received from the wireless device.

The disclosed system is configured to perform a process to notify users on the wireless device of social network connections events relationships established based on the context of the conversations and other data received by the messaging server system. illustrates an example of a process to notify a user of social network connections events relationships established based on the context of conversations and other data received by the messaging server system. As shown in during processing of the real time data received from the wireless device the system determines whether to send a notification based on processing of the real time data . For example the system may determine to send a notification when a new connection has been identified. In this example the notification may identify the new connection and may indicate that the new connection has been automatically added to the user s social network or request the user to confirm that the new connection should be added to the user s social network.

If during processing of the real time data received from the wireless device the system determines to send a notification the system sends a notification from the server to the mobile device application e.g. AO MCE . The notification may notify the mobile device application that one or more new social network connections events or relationships have been established or identified. The device software displays the notification to inform the user of the new social network connection event and or relationship. The notification may prompt the user for additional information or authorization e.g. permission to add a new user to the user s social network or permission to request a new user to join the user s social network . Additional information and or authorization may be sent to the messaging server system based on the user s interaction with the notification .

If during processing of the real time data received from the wireless device the system determines not to send a notification the processing of the real time data received from the wireless device continues . The process shown in can also be invoked based on off line processes or manually invoked by a system administrator.

Section 4 Method and System for Building Aggregating and Synchronizing Contact Lists from Multiple Modalities.

Techniques are described for using mobile devices as a data source and trigger for list building. In some implementations the best available network connections on a mobile device are determined and used to send and retrieve contact details to and from a central system. Message types include in and outbound voice calls SMS MMS email instant messaging and third party social network traffic. For each message sent or received the relevant contact data is forwarded to the central server.

The system thereby allows users to aggregate multiple contact lists into one centrally available system where they can be checked against information provided by other users the contact themselves or third party resources.

Forwarding of the contact data can be accomplished iteratively as each message is sent or received and each contact lookup is achieved or in bulk based on user settings.

For each message sent or received or voice call placed the unique identifier required to technically facilitate that communication with the remote user is used to perform a contact look up. That is if a voice call is placed the relevant phone number IP address in the case of an IP call or SIP address may be used to retrieve contact details of the match. In the case of SMS and MMS the remote phone number is used to attempt to make a match in the mobile device address book. In the case of email the email address is used. In the case of third party social networks a combination of unique identifiers and queries are used to attempt to extract contact details from the device.

This is distinguished from bulk synchronization of contacts with a discrete application over the air or via a hard wired connection to a personal computer. Such synchronization is accomplished without any intelligent guidance for contact priority and is scheduled or manually implemented. In this system all contacts are aggregated and categorized by the system based on actual interactions with users contacts are iteratively gathered and processed based on actual user interaction and hence relevance to the user. Further the system aggregates contacts for which the device user has made no entry so that the system may provide further contact generation using alternate data sources in real time. And does all of this without any scheduling or manual intervention from the user across multiple modalities.

In a high level view of the system is provided. After contact information is received the received contact information is processed . For instance a contact may be processed to determine whether full contact information is available in the contact and whether any information for the contact is already stored at the messaging server system. If full contact information is included in the contact and no other contact information exists at the messaging server system the messaging server system may store the contact in a connections e.g. contacts database .

If full contact information is not included in the contact and or other contact information exists at the messaging server system for the contact the messaging server system may attempt to clean the contact information . For example when contact information is missing from the contact provided the messaging server system may attempt to see if the missing information is available through another source. In this example the messaging server system may check the connections e.g. contacts database and determine whether the missing contact information is already stored. If the missing contact information is not already stored the messaging server system may check a carrier directory or another third party source to determine whether the missing contact information can be obtained and added to the contact.

In another example when contact information is already stored in the connections e.g. contacts database for the received contact being processed the system may determine whether the received contact information includes additional information relative to the information already stored for the contact and or whether the received contact information includes inconsistent information relative to the information already stored for the contact. When the system determines that the received contact information includes additional information relative to the information already stored for the contact the system supplements the contact stored in the database with the additional information. When the system determines that the received contact information includes inconsistent information relative to the information already stored for the contact the system attempts to resolve the inconsistency. For instance the system may query the carrier directory or the other third party source to determine whether the inconsistency can be resolved without user input and if not provide a notification to the user that indicates the inconsistency and requests the user to identify the appropriate contact information.

The messaging server system also includes a facility for offline data processing and network mining. The facility may analyze contact data collected by the messaging server system regarding specific users or groups of users and derive further contact information and or validate contact information based on the analysis. Because the facility processes data when the user is offline the facility may be configured to perform more detailed contact cleaning analysis and may consider more information than the initial contact cleaning . For instance the facility may analyze contact information collected over a greater period of time and for many users within a social network in an effort to supplement and validate contact information for particular users. The facility also may analyze stored data regarding actual interactions occurring with the contact information to determine which contact information is accurate preferred by the contact and determine additional information about types of contact information e.g. whether an email address or phone number is a work account or personal account etc. .

In a situation in which no contact information is available in the mobile device directories the unique identifier of the remote party in the interaction is still sent to the messaging server system e.g. phone number email IM address PIN etc. . This data may then be used in queries against internal and external systems in order to present the user with possible matches for a complete contact. Once the user indicates that a match is correct it may be added to their central contact list. Based upon user configuration contacts may be updated back on the mobile device once the user accepts the entry. illustrates an example in which no contact information or only partial contact information is available in the mobile device.

In a wireless user interacts with a remote user. The data is processed by the mobile device application on the mobile device . After it is determined there is no direct match in the user s contact database the unique identifier of the remote party in the interaction is forwarded to the messaging server system . For instance the device uses a message and network management component to send the unique identifier to a messaging system server where the unique identifier is received at a message device and network management component .

The messaging system server attempts to process and then clean the unique identifier to determine if a contact match can be made .

In parallel the system searches through all of the existing messaging system users and all deleted users. The system searches contact entries that have been marked as deleted by mobile devices for matches.

The system may also query the carrier database in real time should the unique identifier of the remote party be a traditional phone number. This would be the case if the interaction is a voice call SMS or MMS among other interactions.

At the same time the system checks third party databases for matches related to the unique identifier received. These may include remote systems that manage short codes SMS alternate carrier databases etc. The system also may check social networking sites and other third party databases.

Matches are returned and processed by the system and ranked for relevance. The system determines whether sufficiently relevant matches are found . If no sufficiently relevant matches are found the unique identifier is marked for further offline processing and the contact is added to the user s contact list as solely the unique identifier .

If a single sufficiently relevant match is found the contact is added to the user s contact list . The system processes stored contact details based on the contact cleaning and presents suggested full contact entries to the user . In the case of multiple matches with sufficient relevancy the system will then display to the user that this contact has multiple matches and permit the user to select the correct details or complete the contact details themselves. After contact details have been processed the system proceeds to or continues to process relationships for the user .

The system provides a facility for aggregation of wireless dedicated and internet based communication content types into consolidated data stores and presentation.

The system provides a facility to maintain connections to multiple disparate messaging networks and systems while logging all instant messaging and third party social network traffic and present it in a unified presentation.

The system likewise logs all SMS MMS and other proprietary mobile messaging types and presents it in the same unified view.

All communication conducted between a user of the system and a remote communicator is logged and aggregated in this manner.

Connections are maintained with multiple third party networks that are aggregated into a single view of network connections. 

Remote connections on these networks may be presented as members of the discrete network with which they are identified or as members of the over all universe of connections.

Communications with mobile users to and from remote mobile devices may be aggregated into the network universe thereby presenting mobile user messaging along side social network connections and instant messaging colleagues.

All messages sent to and from each of these modalities are aggregated within the messaging system server infrastructure and stored in one or more databases . The aggregated messages are made available for presentation to the user is a presentation layer and made available to remote access by third parties via APIs and to remotes systems via APIs .

In addition a single conversation thread between the user and one or more other users may include communications exchanged over any of the modalities supported by the system. Further the aggregated messages may be used for the social network processing and contact information processing described throughout this disclosure.

Section 6 System and Method for Auditing and Acting Upon Mobile and Internet Messaging Location and Metadata.

The disclosed system provides a mechanism to audit SMS and MMS traffic as well as traditional messaging traffic such as instant messaging and third party social network communications.

As defined in Section 1 the system provides a mechanism to log SMS and MMS traffic as well as other relevant data from a mobile device.

As defined in Section 5 the system provides aggregation and logging of messaging traffic from multiple instant messaging and social networks.

The disclosed system provides a mechanism whereby users and administrators of the system may configure auditing of the stored communications using multiple criteria including metadata content context rate of activity remote communicator identity time location biometric environmental and other variables.

The disclosed system may based upon user or administrator configuration alert systems users administrators of events observed by tracking variables within the logged content.

The system may employ multiple standards based and proprietary methods for identifying patterns and relevance in text images audio and behavior patterns of the actors.

The system may alert users and administrators to relevant message data context and activity the system observes during the course of operation including location and absence of activity or data acquisition by the services.

Alert criteria configured by the user or an administrator are applied to the processed data to identify matches. The criteria may relate to particular messaging activity location or metadata and or government regulations defined for messaging practices within an industry thereby extending traditional logging auditing and compliance functions as well as user location and activity to mobile devices in real time.

Alerts are sent to users and or administrators and or other systems in real time based on the content and characteristics of the messaging location and other data. Alerts may be sent to the user and the administrator via a presentation layer or APIs .

Other messaging modalities are included in the data processing including instant messaging email and social network communications. Auditing the aggregated messages together may offer increased efficiency and compliance with regulations because all messages are audited together at the same time.

Section 7 Method and System for Constructing Social Networks Using Real Time Data from Wireless Devices.

The disclosed system performs a process for sending SMS. MMS. PIN and other standards based and proprietary message types which are sent and received by mobile devices to a system for processing social network connections. The social network connections may be constructed without user input other than the communications and other behavior observed by the system.

The system performs a process for sending personal information management data PIM data to a system for processing social network connections.

The system performs a process for sending other mobile device data including system and device performance and location data as well as other media metadata and logs stored on the mobile device to a system for processing social network connections.

Connections are derived using source and destination unique identifiers in the mobile communications contact or address book data from the mobile device as well as central processing which accesses internal and remote data stores from which relationships may be derived.

Each of these processes is comprised of several sub processes which perform discrete data processing tasks.

4 Relationship and Network Building receives output from the primary data processing processes and assigns social and behavioral identifiers to users and user s relationships.

At any time the Relationship and Network Building unit may query the sub units for additional data or order specific on or offline data processing tasks be carried out.

Likewise the Relationship and Network Building unit may request additional information from a specific mobile device and the method described in Section 3 is invoked Mobile Device Interrogation . The Relationship and Network Building unit may access data from message and user data store and analyze the accessed data in performing relationship and network building e.g. to account for historical message user data . The Relationship and Network Building unit also may store derived relationship and network data in the message and user data store .

The Mobile Client Extensions MCE on their mobile devices are delivering their mobile messaging contact device meta and other media data to the server systems in real time.

Internet users content is included in this analysis. Communications and other activities of the Internet users and the mobile users are received by the message device and network management component and passed to the social network and relationship construction system for processing as discussed throughout this disclosure.

Offline users may be included in this analysis as well as the Social Network is discovered. User data stored in user data storage may be accessed and used to include Offline users in the analysis.

Likewise event and interaction information may be presented to users in real time based upon the content and context of their actual messaging in the course of normal device operation without express request or interaction of the user.

This system performs a process for transferring large and small media messages and content from mobile devices to a store without the requirement of first encoding the messages on the device and then sending the messages in fixed units. chunks. 

Currently sending a media file from a mobile device involves encoding the media and sending the entire file. Encoding of media may take significant system resources and sending the entire file may utilize all available processing and wireless bandwidth. By sending raw data in chunks minimal device processing is required and wireless bandwidth is used as available so as not to interfere with core mobile communications or performance.

A message is sent to the server system which informs the system that a wireless device would like to send over a file or group of files N bytes in site . It is not necessary that the mobile devices first encode or format the files to be transferred.

The server system replies to this mobile notification with an acknowledgement and a message identifier to be used in all future communications regarding this message .

The message is moved to a queue on the mobile device . The queue holds the file s until a Final success or failure determination is made.

A network processor identities the file s in the queue and manages the message identifier file size and off set of the last group of bytes sent to server. The network manager therefore manages the data delivery status and information while the queue manages the files and messages to be sent and their priority.

As network connections are available the network processor sends individual chunks to the server system . The message includes the original message identifier the raw binary data of the media and an offset indicator which informs the server system of up to what byte number of the originally referenced media size is being sent.

An order in which the messages are received by the server system does not matter only that all of the messages are eventually received.

If a chunk is successfully received the server system responds to the mobile device with a confirmation . If an error is encountered the server system likewise responds to the mobile device .

If the mobile device experiences a problem sending or otherwise receives an error for a given chunk the message chunk is marked as failed .

The network processor on the device tracks which chunks have been successfully received and processes failures. It notifies the queue so that a determination may be made as to which items should be sent next. It also determines when a message should be abandoned and notifies the server if such a failure determination is made.

After receiving all of the chunks from the mobile device the server system determines that all of the information has been received for the message with the associated identifier . In response to determining that all of the information has been received the server system encodes the message and sends the message to storage services for storage and further processing as described throughout this disclosure.

Section 9 Method and System for Presenting Semantic Advertising on Mobile Devices and Internet Sites Based on SMS MMS PIN and Other Mobile Messaging Content and Remote Communications.

The system performs a process for sending messaging from the mobile device to server systems for processing. The server system receives communications and other data from Internet users and mobile users through the message device and network management component as described throughout this disclosure.

The system comprises a facility for presenting the mobile user with a notification coupon or other static or interactive advertising product based on the content context and other metadata or parameters of their SMS MMS PIN and other standards based and proprietary messaging to and from the mobile device.

The system performs a process for analyzing mobile messaging contacts that have been sent to the server system as defined in Section 1 and Section 2 as part of the message meta data or related data relevant to the source or destination of the message content.

The system performs a process to incorporate semantics behavior and demographics from multiple messaging modalities into its semantic assertions. Mobile instant and other personal messaging content context contact data and metadata may be used in these assertions. Social network data may be used in these assertions. Mobile carrier cable Internet or satellite telecommunications and television provider data may be used in these assertions.

This data is then processed and assertions made about what internal or third party advertising opportunities are relevant to the mobile user based upon several parameters including 

The facility may include several components that perform semantic advertising as described above. For example as shown in the facility may include a content and context derivation unit that performs natural language processing context discovery data cleaning conversation threading heuristic assessment and historical conversation analysis operations. The facility also may include a behavior and historical data analysis unit that analyzes temporal data application and advertisement interaction data and semantic performance data. The facility further may include a user profile data analysis unit that analyzes user demographics user click interaction history and other messaging data. In addition the facility may include a heuristic actions unit that may serve advertisements from a particular system request more data and query the system. The facility determines which advertisements to serve to particular users based on a combination of output provided by the content and context derivation unit the behavior and historical data analysis unit the user profile data analysis unit and the heuristic actions unit .

An ad server may control presentation of relevant advertising identified by the facility . The advertising may be placed either on the mobile device for immediate viewing or delayed viewing based upon business requirements.

The advertising may appear on an Internet site that is accessed by mobile or wired devices utilizing the Internet as opposed to carrier provided telecommunications networking.

The advertising may appear within a television or video broadcast e.g. for perception by users when integrated with a telecommunications cable or satellite telecommunications provider such that advertising may be presented relevant to the semantics of the users current messaging or details attic remote sender recipient.

Aggregated and specific details of user behavior content context history may be made available to a third party system from the ad server . This data will permit an alternate delivery mechanism to present advertising to the user based on the semantics of their mobile instant and other messaging.

The system may include a remote request unit that may request additional information from a specific mobile device or other device and the method described in Section 3 is invoked Mobile Device Interrogation . The system may include a trigger remote system unit that triggers a remote system to perform an operation related to determining or presenting semantic advertising.

In some implementations as described throughout this disclosure a system performs out of band SMS MMS message logging contact profile management message aggregation over multiple modalities communication auditing social network building connection management and semantic advertising based on SMS MMS messaging. The system may use any of the techniques described throughout this disclosure.

For instance in performing out of band SMS MMS message logging SMS MMS messaging traffic may be exchanged directly between user devices through a carrier network and also routed to the system through a separate communication for logging. The system receives the separate communication and logs and threads SMS MMS traffic. Both placed messages and received messages are routed to the system without the actual communication traffic flowing through the system.

In managing contact profiles the system may obtain contact profile information from user devices in bulk or iteratively when logging SMS MMS message traffic. The system receives user contact information for a recipient sender of an SMS MMS message being logged and builds updates a contact profile for that recipient sender in the system based on the received user contact information. In some examples a single user e.g. User A is a contact of multiple different users e.g. User . . . User N . In these examples each of the multiple users e.g. User . . . User N may have a different contact profile for the single user e.g. User A that is based on the contact profile stored for the single user e.g. User A on the corresponding user s mobile device. The system also may use the contact profile information to assist in tracking other forms of communication with the contact. For instance when the system does not have an IM address for a contact and the obtained contact profile from the user device includes an IM address for the contact the system may use the obtained IM address to update the contact profile and thereby enable aggregation and threading of IMs exchanged with the contact.

In performing message aggregation over multiple modalities the system may log and track all types of communications e.g. SMS MMS messages telephone calls instant messages electronic mail messages social networking interactions etc. . The system may aggregate communications originated by a single user but sent over multiple different communication modalities and thread communications sent over the multiple communication modalities by the single into a single thread. For example several messages exchanged over different communication mediums may be aggregated together and conversations with multiple different users may be threaded together or separately based on the interactions.

In performing communication auditing the system may audit or enable auditing of SMS MMS messages in combination with other modalities. The system may identify which traffic is selected for auditing. For example the system may identify messaging traffic associated with particular users e.g. all users of a particular company and select the identified messaging traffic for auditing. The system may generate auditing reports and alerts that leverage SMS MMS messages content frequency device activity location inactivity and device data acquisition characteristics among others.

In managing social networks the system may build or update a social network through actual communications. The system may consider multiple modalities of communication and automatically build or update a social network based on interactions through the multiple modalities of communication. For instance the system may identify actual social network connections and the strength of those connections by analyzing the number of communications exchanged between users the timing of communications between users and the types of communications exchanged between users and weighting the interactions accordingly to identify connections and assess the strength of the connection. The system may maintain a unified list of contacts that is dynamically updated based on real time interactions and spans multiple different communication modalities. The system may provide alerts to indicate that a change to a social network has been made or that prompt a user to accept a suggested change to a social network.

In performing connection management the system may implement single sign on and maintenance of connections. The system may perform single sign on across multiple communication modalities and may maintain a persistent connection for a user even when an interface displayed by the system is closed by the user. The system also may leverage bots to provide intelligent handling of messages when the interface is closed. In some implementations the system may automatically identify other communication services accessed by the user while using the system and automatically add the other communication services and necessary login information to the single sign on list. For instance the system may detect authentication to a supported service and automatically add to the supported service to the single sign on list. The system may provide alerts to indicate that a change to the single sign on list has been made or that prompt a user to accept a suggested change to the single sign on list.

In performing semantic advertising based on SMS MMS messaging the system may analyze SMS MMS messages to identify current interactions and personal characteristics and target advertising based on the identified current interactions and personal characteristics. For example through real time analysis of SMS MMS messaging the system may glean detailed information related to a user s current interactions. The system may use the detailed information related to the user s current interactions to provide highly specific advertising or other content that accounts for the user s current interactions.

In some examples the system may be configured to track activities undertaken by children based on their mobile devices e.g. smartphones . In these examples the techniques described throughout this disclosure may be used to track location of children and or communications e.g. time and or content of SMS or other messages . Parents may be able get access to the data for their children and the auditing processes described throughout may be used to notify parents of data drops location drops and other activities taken by the children that do not comply with one or more parental control rules set by the parents. In this regard the parents may serve as the auditors and receive the alerts.

As described above the techniques described throughout this disclosure may be used to perform social location based services from user interaction with their applications and the server. The techniques perform the social location based services without user interaction e.g. without user check in . Accordingly social location based services may be enhanced as compared to systems that require user input check in.

Metadata when used throughout this disclosure is intended to include data available from mobile devices which when stored and processed with other data facilitate performance and accuracy of the service functions. Metadata are contemplated to include but are not limited to time location biometric data device activity and user interaction data environmental variables specific device data and data as may be available from the mobile device or from a device extension and may improve the services described. The techniques described throughout this disclosure may include analysis and processing of any combination of the items of metadata identified above.

In addition the system and services described throughout this disclosure are contemplated to be made available in central or cloud capacity. Further the system and services described throughout this disclosure may be offered in either a client server model as defined with mobile clients interacting with a central or distributed service or may be installed within a telecommunications infrastructure such that messaging data is passed through the system for real time evaluation without the requirement of mobile device specific software.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor may process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple busses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of duties is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards. In this implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing devices and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other. The computing device may include one or more sensors such as gyroscopes cameras or GPS Global Positioning Satellite trackers configured to detect or sense motion or position of the computing device .

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The computing device may include one or more sensors such as gyroscopes cameras or GPS Global Positioning Satellite trackers configured to detect or sense motion or position of the computing device .

The processor may process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may also include separate analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD display or an OLED display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may include appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provided in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication e.g. via a docking procedure or for wireless communication e.g. via Bluetooth or other such technologies .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or MRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth or other such transceiver. In addition. UPS receiver module may provide additional wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device . Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here may be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations may include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and may be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices may be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user may be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user may be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user may interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

It will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example other useful implementations could be achieved if steps of the disclosed techniques were performed in a different order and or if components in the disclosed systems were combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the disclosure.

