---

title: Touch sensor pattern
abstract: A capacitive sensor array includes a second sensor element intersecting a first sensor element to form an intersection associated with a unit cell. The second sensor element includes, within the unit cell: a first primary trace crossing the unit cell and a second primary trace crossing the unit cell, a first secondary trace connecting the first primary trace and the second primary trace, and a first tertiary trace branching away from the first secondary trace between the first primary trace and the second primary trace. An area of the first sensor element is greater than an area of the second sensor element within the unit cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436339&OS=09436339&RS=09436339
owner: CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
number: 09436339
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150402
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 424 361 filed Mar. 19 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 602 534 filed Feb. 23 2012 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to trace patterns of elements in capacitive touch sensor arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor elements that detect the position of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

An embodiment of a capacitive touch sensor pattern may be constructed from a single patterned layer of conductive material and may have a trace geometry that minimizes regional geometric disparity without the use of excessive metal bridges.

In one embodiment such a capacitive touch sensor pattern may include two sets of intersecting sensor elements where each sensor element in a first set intersects each sensor element of the other set. One set of sensor elements may be used as transmit TX electrodes while the other set of sensor elements is used as receive RX electrodes in a mutual capacitance sensing system. In an alternative embodiment the sensor elements may be used in a self capacitance sensing system. In one embodiment each of the sensor elements of one set includes a main trace and one or more primary subtraces branching from the main trace. The sensor elements may also include one or more secondary subtraces branching from the primary subtraces and one or more tertiary subtraces branching away from the secondary subtraces.

In one embodiment a touch sensor pattern may include a number of unit cells where a unit cell corresponding to a TX RX pair of sensor elements may be defined as an area wherein each point within the unit cell area is nearest to an intersection between the TX RX pair than to any intersection between a different TX RX pairing.

In one embodiment each unit cell of a capacitive touch sensor pattern may contain a main trace crossing the unit cell at least a portion of a primary subtrace branching perpendicularly away from the main trace at least four secondary subtraces branching away from the primary subtraces and at least two tertiary subtraces branching away from each of the secondary subtraces. In one embodiment the main trace and subtraces may form a grid like pattern resembling a trellis.

In one embodiment both TX and RX sets of sensor elements may be constructed using a single patterned layer of conductive material with bridges used to join sections of the sensor elements that are separated at intersections between the TX and RX pairs.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor elements N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor element N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor element detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a change in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculate high precision locations from the processing device .

The sensor array illustrated in includes sensor elements arranged in a diamond pattern. Specifically the sensor elements of sensor array are arranged in a single solid diamond SSD pattern. illustrates a capacitive sensor array having an alternate embodiment of the diamond pattern which is the dual solid diamond DSD pattern. Each of the sensor elements of capacitive sensor array includes two rows or columns of electrically connected diamond shaped traces. Relative to the SSD pattern the DSD pattern has improved signal disparity characteristics due to an increase in the coupling between TX and RX sensor elements while maintaining the same self capacitance coupling possible between each sensor element and a conductive object near the sensor element. The DSD pattern may also provide higher sensitivity for tracking smaller objects such as the point of a stylus as compared to patterns having larger features such as SSD. However the DSD pattern also increases the number of bridges such as bridge used to create the pattern which may result in decreased manufacturing yield. The increased number of bridges may also be visible if metal bridges are used. For example sensor array includes four bridges within unit cell .

In one embodiment capacitive sensor array may be constructed by printing etching depositing or otherwise placing conductive material onto a substrate. For example the sensor array pattern may be constructed from Indium Tin Oxide ITO or some other conductive material deposited onto a transparent substrate such as glass to create a transparent touch sensing surface.

As compared to the SSD and DSD patterns an embodiment of the pattern for sensor array may have a longer boundary length within each unit cell between the TX and RX sensor elements while minimizing the number of metal bridges per unit cell. This results in a pattern capable of producing an increased signal level and having a more uniformly distributed sensitivity across the touch sensing surface. In one embodiment such a pattern may also reduce the signal disparity between grounded and ungrounded systems. High coupling from the RX signals back to the AC ground of the TX buses may also increase the pattern s resistance to injected noise sources.

With reference to capacitive sensor array includes two sets of sensor elements. In one embodiment sensor elements may be used as transmit TX sensor elements and sensor elements may be used as receive RX sensor elements in a mutual capacitance sensing system. Capacitive sensor array is constructed such that each of the RX sensor elements intersects each of the TX sensor elements to form a unit cell such as unit cell associated with each of the intersections between unique pairs of TX and RX elements. In one embodiment each point within the boundaries of each unit cell is nearest to an intersection between the corresponding TX RX pair of sensor elements than to any other intersection of a different TX RX pair.

In one embodiment each of the RX sensor elements includes a main trace that crosses at least one of the plurality of unit cells. illustrates one unit cell of capacitive sensor array according to an embodiment. Within the unit cell the RX sensor element includes a main trace that crosses the unit cell with at least a portion of one or more primary subtraces such as primary subtrace branching away from the main trace . In one embodiment the primary subtrace may branch away from the main trace such that a longitudinal axis of the primary subtrace is perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the main trace at the junction between the main trace and the primary subtrace.

Within the area of the unit cell the RX sensor element may include a secondary subtrace such as subtrace that branches away from a primary subtrace such as subtrace . In one embodiment the unit cell may include four secondary subtraces as illustrated in . For example the sensor element may include four primary subtraces including subtrace branching away from the main trace and may further include a secondary subtrace branching away from each of the primary subtraces. In one embodiment the secondary subtraces may have a longitudinal axis that is perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the primary subtrace from which it branches.

In one embodiment the sensor element may also include one or more tertiary subtraces such as tertiary subtrace branching away from each secondary subtrace. As illustrated in two tertiary subtraces may branch away from each secondary subtrace. In one embodiment a longitudinal axis of each tertiary subtrace may be perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the secondary subtrace from which it branches.

In one embodiment the tertiary subtraces may be rectangular and may have two corners which can be described as ear vertexes. An ear vertex of a given shape may be described as any vertex where a line connecting the vertexes on either side of the ear vertex passes through the interior of the shape. In contrast a mouth vertex is a vertex where such a line lies outside the shape.

In one embodiment the sensor element may also include additional primary subtraces such as subtraces branching away from the main trace . In one embodiment these primary subtraces may be aligned along an axis with tertiary subtraces. The primary subtraces such as subtraces may be rectangular in shape and may be similar in shape to the tertiary subtraces. Each of the primary subtraces may also have two corners that are ear vertexes.

In one embodiment a bridge may be used to connect portions of a sensor element such as TX sensor element . Bridge may be made from metal or some other conductive material and may be used to electrically connect the portions of sensor element that are otherwise separated by the main trace of sensor element . In one embodiment the sensor elements and are deposited on or constructed from a single layer of conductive material. In one embodiment each unit cell of the capacitive sensor array pattern includes no more than one bridge. In one embodiment the size of the bridge may be reduced by tapering the TX or RX sensor elements at the intersection to decrease the distance crossed by the bridge .

In one embodiment the TX sensor element may fill substantially all of the negative space left by the RX sensor element leaving a gap between the edges of the RX and TX sensor elements. The gap may be uniform or may vary over the boundary length between the RX and TX sensor elements.

In one embodiment the trellis pattern as illustrated in results in a longer boundary length between the TX and RX sensor elements as compared to a similarly sized area of the SSD or DSD patterns. In one embodiment this results in a higher touch signal sensitivity and a more homogeneous distribution of sensitivity throughout the unit cell.

In one embodiment the trellis pattern of capacitive sensor array also provides a stronger path to ground increasing noise immunity. The trellis pattern may also decrease signal disparity effects while using only one bridge per unit cell to connect the sensor elements.

The trellis pattern may also allow for additional coupling when a conductive object is between sensor elements. This has the effect of reducing the difference between the maximum observed signal and the minimum observed signal.

In one embodiment the smaller features of the primary secondary and tertiary subtraces may allow detection of a smaller conductive object such as a stylus tip at the touch sensing surface.

In one embodiment the RX sensor element may include a primary subtrace branching perpendicularly away from the main trace and a secondary subtrace branching perpendicularly away from the primary subtrace . In alternative embodiments primary and secondary subtraces may be added to the sensor element to maximize the boundary length between the RX and TX sensor elements and .

In one embodiment the sensitivity distribution of a capacitive sensor array may be controlled by the distribution of vertexes within each unit cell. Since charge tends to accumulate at the corners of the sensor element an even distribution of such vertexes may result in corresponding even distribution of sensitivity across the unit cell.

With reference to the shape of sensor element that is contained within unit cell includes 32 ear vertexes formed by the corners of the primary and tertiary subtraces. illustrates an embodiment of a unit cell for a capacitive sensor array pattern where the tertiary subtraces and smaller primary subtraces are in the shape of triangles. The portion of RX sensor element that is within the unit cell includes 20 ear vertexes eight of which are formed by the points of the tertiary subtraces four by the points of primary subtraces and eight by the corners of the rectangular secondary subtraces. Bridge connects the separate portions of the TX sensor element . Alternative embodiments of the sensor pattern may have more than 20 ear vertexes such as the pattern illustrated in .

In an alternative embodiment the triangular traces in may instead be replaced by other shapes such as rectangles circles diamonds stars n gons or other shapes.

The RX sensor element includes a main trace . Primary subtrace branches perpendicularly from the main trace and secondary subtrace branches perpendicularly from primary subtrace . In one embodiment the secondary subtrace is substantially in the shape of a diamond. The sensor pattern illustrated in eliminates a number of vertexes relative to the trellis pattern illustrated in .

The RX sensor element includes a main trace . Primary subtrace branches perpendicularly from the main trace and secondary subtrace branches perpendicularly from primary subtrace .

In one embodiment the pattern illustrated in is similar to the pattern of but with a different ratio between the areas of the RX and TX sensor elements. Thus the ratio of these areas may be adjusted to affect performance parameters such as signal disparity performance susceptibility to charger noise and LCD noise immunity. In one embodiment the TX sensor elements may make up 50 of the area of the conductive material while the RX sensor elements may make up the remaining 50 of the area.

In one embodiment trace widths between sections of the TX sensor element may be increased to reduce the resistance of the TX sensor element. For example the size of the tertiary subtraces such as subtrace may be decreased to increase the widths of the thinner connecting portions of the TX sensor element .

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

