---

title: Authentication method using liveness verification
abstract: An authentication method requires receiving an order from a server to perform an act which is then verified by the server for liveness. The act may comprise shining a color on an object such as the face of the user, holding a flash at a particular location or a combination of these and other similar acts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600649&OS=09600649&RS=09600649
owner: Brivas LLC
number: 09600649
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150814
---
This application is a continuation of prior application Ser. No. 13 829 180 filed on Mar. 14 2013 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR MULTIVARIATE AUTHENTICATION which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 621 728 filed on Apr. 9 2012 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MULTIVARIATE AUTHENTICATION the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

User authentication has become increasingly of interest as Internet and network based computer usage have become more prevalent and capabilities of these media have grown. The significance of user authentication has also increased as businesses government departments medical organizations and individuals have become increasingly reliant on computer networks and on the security of proprietary information transmitted across networks to users of computing devices.

In accordance with one embodiment a computer based method of authenticating is provided. The method comprises receiving a request for authentication of a user. The request for authentication comprises biometric feature of the user collected by a user device and contextual data from the user device. The method also comprises comparing the biometric feature of the user to baseline biometric feature of the user comparing the contextual data to an expected contextual data value and determining whether to authenticate the user based on the comparison of the biometric feature of the user to the baseline biometric feature of the user and the comparison of the contextual data to the expected contextual data value.

In accordance with another embodiment a computer based authentication system is provided. The system comprises a baseline image database a contextual data database and an authentication computing system. The authentication system is configured to receive a request for authentication of a user from a user device. The request for authentication comprises an image of the user and contextual data. The authentication system is also configured to compare the image of the user to a baseline image of the user stored in the baseline image database compare the contextual data to an expected contextual data value stored in the contextual data database and determine whether to authenticate the user based on the comparison of the biometric feature of the user to the baseline image of the user and the comparison of the contextual data to the expected contextual data value.

In accordance with another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon is provided. When the instructions are executed by a processor they cause the processor to receive a request for authentication of a user. The request for authentication comprises an image of the user collected by a user device and contextual data from the user device. When the instructions are executed by a processor they also cause the processor to compare the image of the user to a baseline image of the user compare the contextual data to an expected contextual data value and determine whether to authenticate the user based on the comparison of the biometric feature of the user to the baseline image of the user and the comparison of the contextual data to the expected contextual data value.

In accordance with another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon is provided. When the instructions are executed by a processor they cause the processor to receive from a first user device via a network communication a network packet comprising an electronic data file and recipient biometrics and receive from a second user device via network communication biometric data obtained from a user of the second user device. When the biometric data obtained from the use of the second user device matches the recipient biometrics the electronic data file is permitted to be accessed on the second user device.

In accordance with yet another embodiment a method of electronically sharing data is provided. The method comprises identifying an electronic file providing biometrics associated with a recipient providing contextual data associated with a recipient causing the electronic file to be encrypted based on the provided biometrics and the provided contextual data and causing the transmission of the encrypted with another embodiment.

Various non limiting embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described to provide an overall understanding of the principles of the structure function and use of the authentication systems and processes disclosed herein. One or more examples of these non limiting embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that systems and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings are non limiting embodiments. The features illustrated or described in connection with one non limiting embodiment may be combined with the features of other non limiting embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.

The presently disclosed embodiments are generally directed to user identification and authorization. Such systems and methods may be implemented in a wide variety of contexts. In one example embodiment the presently disclosed systems and methods allow the identity of a user of a computing device to be authenticated. The user may be authenticated though a multivariate platform as described in more detail below. In some embodiments the authentication process may process an image supplied by the computing device to the authentication computing system. The process may utilize a biometric attribute of the user along with one or more additional authentication variables in order to confirm an identity of the user. The image may for example include a user gesture a flash burst or other authentication variable. The gesture the relative location of the gesture and or the relative location of the flash may be compared to a baseline image as part of the authentication process. In some implementations contextual data associated with the image may be processed as part of the authentication process. Such contextual data sometimes referred to as metadata may include without limitation a machine ID device data or geographical locational information. As described in more detail below contextual data may also include data obtained from sensors onboard a user computer device. Example sensors include accelerometers magnetometers proximity sensors and the like. Such sensors may provide contextual data such as movement data and user device orientation data for example.

In some example embodiments a computing device may display a particular color on its graphical display screen during an authentication process. The particular color may have been provided to the computing device by an authentication system. The image subsequently provided to the authentication computing system by the computer device may include an image of the user with the particular color reflected off of facial features of a user to form a color signature. Along with biometrical facial features of the user the particular color present in the image and the color signature may be analyzed by an authentication computing system to provide user authentication.

In some example embodiments at least some of the communication between a computing device and an authentication computing system is encrypted using any suitable encryption technique. In one example embodiment chaos based image encryption may be used although this disclosure is not so limited. Additional details regarding chaos based image encryption may be found in Chaos Based Image Encryption by Yaobin Mao and Guaron Chen available at http www.open image.org 725publication journal CBIE.pdf which is incorporated herein by reference. In one example embodiment images provided to the authentication computing system by a computing device are encrypted though a pixel rotation technique a codec watermarking technique and or other encrypting technique.

Generally the presently disclosed systems and methods may authenticate a user before giving the user access to a mobile computer device access to an application on a computer device access to a building or other structure access to a web portal access to any other type of computing device access to data or access to any other secured virtual or physical destination. The authentication can be based on a combination of biometric analysis and contextual data analysis with the contextual data based on a user device of the user seeking authentication. Therefore the presently disclosed systems and methods generally bind man and machine to effectuate the authentication paradigms described in more detail below.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment some example embodiments one example embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one embodiment some example embodiments one example embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Referring now to one example embodiment of the present disclosure may comprise an authentication computing system that receives and processes identity based information to execute user authorization. The authentication computing system may be provided using any suitable processor based device or system such as a personal computer laptop server mainframe or a collection e.g. network of multiple computers for example. The authentication computing system may include one or more processors and one or more computer memory units . For convenience only one processor and only one memory unit are shown in . The processor may execute software instructions stored on the memory unit . The processor may be implemented as an integrated circuit IC having one or multiple cores. The memory unit may include volatile and or non volatile memory units. Volatile memory units may include random access memory RAM for example. Non volatile memory units may include read only memory ROM for example as well as mechanical non volatile memory systems such as for example a hard disk drive an optical disk drive etc. The RAM and or ROM memory units may be implemented as discrete memory ICs for example.

The memory unit may store executable software and data for authentication engine . When the processor of the authentication computing system executes the software of the authentication engine the processor may be caused to perform the various operations of the authentication computing system such as send information to remote computer devices process information received from remote computer devices and provide authentication information to the remote computer devices as discussed in more detail below. Data used by the authentication engine may be from various sources such as a baseline image database which may be an electronic computer database for example. The data stored in the baseline image database may be stored in a non volatile computer memory such as a hard disk drive a read only memory e.g. a ROM IC or other types of non volatile memory. Also the data of the database may be stored on a remote electronic computer system for example. Machine ID database which may be an electronic computer database for example may also provide used by the authentication engine . The data stored in the machine ID database may be stored in a non volatile computer memory such as a hard disk drive a read only memory e.g. a ROM IC or other types of non volatile memory. Also the data of the Machine ID database may be stored on a remote electronic computer system for example. In some embodiments the Machine ID database comprises mobile equipment identification MEID numbers Electronic Serial Numbers ESN and or other suitable identifying indicia that may be used to identify electronic devices. While machine ID database is illustrated as storing expected contextual data related to an identifier of a user device it is to be appreciated that other embodiments may utilize other databases configured to store other forms of expected contextual data expected movement data expected geolocational data expected magnetic data and so forth that may be compared to contextual data received from a user device during an authentication process.

The authentication computing system may be in communication with user devices via an electronic communications network not shown . The communications network may include a number of computer and or data networks including the Internet LANs WANs GPRS networks etc. and may comprise wired and or wireless communication links. In some example embodiments an authentication system API is used to pass information between the user devices and the authentication computing system . The user devices that communicate with the authentication computing system may be any type of client device suitable for communication over the network such as a personal computer a laptop computer or a netbook computer for example. In some example embodiments a user may communicate with the network via a user device that is a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. It can be appreciated that while certain embodiments may be described with users communication via a smart phone or laptop by way of example the communication may be implemented using other types of user equipment UE or wireless computing devices such as a mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA combination mobile telephone PDA handheld device mobile unit subscriber station game device messaging device media player pager or other suitable mobile communications devices. Further in some example embodiments the user device may be fixed to a building vehicle or other physical structure.

Some of the user devices also may support wireless wide area network WWAN data communications services including Internet access. Examples of WWAN data communications services may include Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data only EV DO Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV CDMA 1 RTT GSM with General Packet Radio Service systems GSM GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and others. The user device may provide wireless local area network WLAN data communications functionality in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as Wi Fi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and others.

In some example embodiments the user device also may be arranged to perform data communications functionality in accordance with shorter range wireless networks such as a wireless personal area network PAN offering Bluetooth data communications services in accordance with the Bluetooth . Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols specifications profiles and so forth. Other examples of shorter range wireless networks may employ infrared IR techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques including passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

The user device may comprise various radio elements including a radio processor one or more transceivers amplifiers filters switches and so forth to provide voice and or data communication functionality. It may be appreciated that the user device may operate in accordance with different types of wireless network systems utilize different radio elements to implement different communication techniques. The user device also may comprise various input output I O interfaces for supporting different types of connections such as a serial connection port an IR port a Bluetooth interface a network interface a Wi Fi interface a WiMax interface a cellular network interface a wireless network interface card WNIC a transceiver and so forth. The user device may comprise one or more internal and or external antennas to support operation in multiple frequency bands or sub bands such as the 2.4 GHz range of the ISM frequency band for Wi Fi and Bluetooth communications one or more of the 850 MHz 900 MHZ 1800 MHz and 1900 MHz frequency bands for GSM CDMA TDMA NAMPS cellular and or PCS communications the 2100 MHz frequency band for CDMA2000 EV DO and or WCDMA JMTS communications the 1575 MHz frequency band for Global Positioning System GPS operations and others.

The user device may provide a variety of applications for allowing a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks using the authentication computing system . Applications may include without limitation a web browser application e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX SAFARI OPERA NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR telephone application e.g. cellular VoIP PTT networking application messaging application e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS BLACKBERRY Messenger contacts application calendar application and so forth. The user device may comprise various software programs such as system programs and applications to provide computing capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. System programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary operating systems may include for example a PALM OS MICROSOFT OS APPLE OS UNIX OS LINUX OS SYMBIAN OS EMBEDIX OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others.

In general an application may provide a user interface to communicate information between the authentication computing system and the user via user devices . The user devices may include various components for interacting with the application such as a display for presenting the user interface and a keypad for inputting data and or commands. The user devices may include other components for use with one or more applications such as a stylus a touch sensitive screen keys e.g. input keys preset and programmable hot keys buttons e.g. action buttons a multidirectional navigation button preset and programmable shortcut buttons switches a microphone speakers an audio headset a camera and so forth. Through the interface the users may interact with the authentication computing system .

The applications may include or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as volatile or non volatile memory capable of being retrieved and executed by a processor to provide operations for the user devices . The memory may also store various databases and or other types of data structures e.g. arrays files tables records for storing data for use by the processor and or other elements of the user devices .

As shown in the authentication computing system may include several computer servers and databases. For example the authentication computing system may include one or more web servers and application servers . For convenience only one web server and one application server are shown in although it should be recognized that this disclosure is not so limited. The web server may provide a graphical web user interface through which users of the system may interact with the authentication computing system . The web server may accept requests such as HTTP requests from clients such as web browsers on the device and serve the clients responses such as HTTP responses along with optional data content such as web pages e.g. HTML documents and linked objects such as images etc. .

The application server may provide a user interface for users who do not communicate with the authentication computing system using a web browser. Such users may have special software installed on their user devices that allows them to communicate with the application server via the network. Such software may be downloaded for example from the authentication computing system or other software application provider over the network to such user devices . The software may also be installed on such user devices by other means known in the art such as CD ROM etc.

The servers may comprise processors e.g. CPUs memory units e.g. RAM ROM non volatile storage systems e.g. hard disk drive systems etc. The servers may utilize operating systems such as Solaris Linux or Windows Server operating systems for example.

Although depicts a limited number of elements for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the authentication computing system may include more or less elements as well as other types of elements in accordance with the described embodiments. Elements of the authentication system may include physical or logical entities for communicating information implemented as hardware components e.g. computing devices processors logic devices executable computer program instructions e.g. firmware software to be executed by various hardware components or combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints.

In addition to the end user devices the authentication computing system may be in communication with other entities such as a biometric ID module . In some example embodiments biometric ID functionality may be supplied from one or more third party biometric services providers. One example provider of biometric services is available at http www.face.com and accessible via an application programming interface API . Other services may be provided by other third party providers such as geolocational services which may be provide by a geolocational module through an API. An example geolocational service is the W3C Geolocation API provided by the World Wide Web Consortium W3C . In some embodiments biometric ID and or geolocational services may be provided by the authentication computing system without the aid of outside service providers. For example biometric information of users of the system may be stored by the authentication computing system.

During an authentication event the authentication computing system may receive and process an encrypted network packet from the user device . The encrypted network packet may be encrypted using chaos based image encryption for example. The network packet may include an image and may also include contextual data . The image may include for example an image of the user for biometric analysis. The image may also include additional image data that may be analyzed and processed by the authentication computing system . For example the additional image data may include without limitation a source of light at a particular location in the image relative to the user a particular gesture by the user a particular facial expression by the user a particular color reflected off a portion of the user and so forth. The contextual data may include without limitation a machine ID locational information device global positioning system GPS information radio frequency identification RFID information near field communication NFC information MAC address information and so forth. For user devices supporting a position determination capability examples of position determination capability may include one or more position determination techniques such as Global Positioning System GPS techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques involving GPS or AGPS in conjunction with Cell Global Identity CGI Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL Time Difference of Arrival TDOA Angle of Arrival AOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD or Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA and or any other position determination techniques in accordance with the described embodiments. The image and any other information associated with the image may be purged by the user device subsequent to the transmission of the image to the authentication computing system .

The encrypted network packet may be sent to the authentication computing system in response to a user s interaction with the user device . For example a user may be seeking to log into a restricted website access a restricted website access a restricted file access a restricted building or access a restricted computing device. Upon receipt of the encrypted network packet which may be comprised of a plurality of individual network packets the authentication computing system may decrypt the information in order to process the image and any associated contextual data . If a third party biometric ID module is used information may be provided to the service provider through an API. For example the biometric ID module may analyze facial features of the user to ascertain identity. The additional image data in the image such as relative flash placement for example may be compared to a baseline image stored in the baseline image database . In some example embodiments additional comparisons or analysis may be performed on the contextual data the image or other information contained in the encrypted network packet .

In some embodiments the encrypted network packet may include an audio file which includes a voice of the user in addition to the contextual data . The audio file may be included for example in the place of the image when an image of the user cannot be obtained. The audio file may be processed by the authentication computing system to compare the audio file to a known voice signature of the user. The audio file may be collected by the user device and transmitted to the authentication computing system when it is deemed for example that an onboard camera of the user device is not functioning. In other embodiments both the image and the audio file are required by the authentication computing system for authentication.

Once the user has been authenticated verification indicating that the user has been property authenticated may be provided to the user device by the authentication computing system . The verification may be in any suitable form. For example the verification may indicate to an application running on the user device that the user is an authorized user. Subsequent to receiving the verification the user device may allow the user to log into a restricted website access a restricted website access a restricted file access a restricted building or access a restricted computing device for example.

Referring first to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature and a flash location. The biometric feature may be for example a facial feature a hand feature a retinal feature a biological sinusoidal rhythm and so forth. The flash location as described in more detail below may be the relative position of a point of light relative to the biometric feature. Referring next to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature and a gesture. The gesture may be for example a hand gesture a multi hand gesture a facial expression an arm position and so forth. Referring next to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature a gesture and a flash location. Referring next to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature a gesture location and a flash location.

Referring to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature and a color feature. As described in more detail below in some example embodiments prior to capturing the image the computer device may output a particular color on its graphical display such that can reflect off a biometric feature of the user as a color signature. The reflected color along with the biometric features may be analyzed by the authentication computing system to confirm identity. Referring next to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature a flash location and a color feature. Referring next to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature a color feature and a gesture.

Referring to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature and a gesture. Machine ID may also be associated with the image and provided to the authentication computing system . The machine ID may be contextual data which may include any type of additional data such as locational information GPS information RFID information NFC information MAC address information device data and so forth. The machine ID provided as contextual data may be compared to machine ID stored by the authentication computing system . For example the authentication computing system may compare the locational information provided with the image to an expected location stored by the system. If the image was not captured at a geographical location near the expected location authentication will not be successful.

Referring to in one example embodiment an image comprises a biometric feature and a flash angle. The flash angle may be for example an angle of incidence of the flash. A non limiting example of flash angle determination is described in more detail with regard to . Referring now to an image comprise a biometric feature and a user device angle. The value of the user device angle may be measured by an accelerometer on board the user device for example.

Referring now to an image comprises a biometric feature and locational information. The locational information may be gathered by an on board GPS for example. In one embodiment the location information can include longitude latitude and altitude. The image may also comprise flash angle information.

Referring next to an image may comprise a biometric feature flash shutter synchronicity information and a gesture location. With regard to flash shutter synchronicity the authentication computing system may communicate with the user device during the image capture process to control the relative timing of the flash and the shutter. For example the authentication computing system may cause a slight flash delay or shutter delay to give the captured image a particular flash signature. A change in the flash delay or shutter delay may result in a different flash signature. The flash signature in the image may be analyzed by the authentication computing system as an authentication variable.

It is noted that the informational components of the various images illustrated in are merely for illustrative purposes. In fact images provided to the authentication computing system may include any number of authentication variables and or any combination of authentication variables. The number or combination of authentication variables transmitted with the image may depend at least in part on a desired level of security. In some embodiments the number authentication variables used and or the priority of the authentication variables may be based on the available resources at the time of authentication. As described in more detail below example resources that may be considered included without limitation battery supply data transmission rates network signal strength and so forth.

In some embodiments the authentication computing system may require user authentication based on contextual operational information such as the geographical location of the user device or the period of time since a previous successful authentication for example. By way of example a user of a user device may power down a user device during a plane flight. Upon arriving at the destination the user device will be powered up. The distance between the particular geographic location of the user device upon power down and the particular geographic location of the user device upon power up can be assessed. If the distance is beyond a predetermined distance threshold the user device may require user authentication before providing user access.

Furthermore in some embodiments the user device may include a plurality of data collection devices that each requires different levels of operational resources. For example a smart phone may have two on board cameras a high resolution camera and a low resolution camera. Images captured using the low resolution camera requires less data and therefore such camera may be useful during times of low data transmission rates. In such instances the biometric data collected from the user may include periocular data for example. If the user device is operating on a network connection having high data transmission rates the high resolution camera may be used. In any event the systems and methods described herein may alter or shift the type of authentication variables considered and the techniques for gathering such variables based on operational or environmental factors existing at the time of the authentication request. The systems and methods described herein may use additional techniques or processes to compensate for operational conditions. For example during low light conditions a particular color may be displayed on a screen of the user device such that the screen can be held proximate to the user to illuminate the user s face with that particular hue. The particular color may change over time such as in a strobed fashion with the shutter coordinated with the pulses of light. As such as an additional layer of security an image with a particular color reflected off of the user s face can be compared with an expected color.

Various forms of assistance may be provided to the user by the authentication computing system during the image capture process illustrated in . In one embodiment for example a visual cue is provided to the user on the screen of the user device . The visual cue may provide an indication of the relative proper placement of the user device in the image for a particular image capture session. The visual cue may be without limitation a solid dot on the screen a flashing dot on the screen a grid on the screen graphical bars or lines on the screen or any other suitable visual cue.

The particular location of the visual cue on the screen may be provided to the user device by signaling from the authentication computing system . In various embodiments the particular location of the visual cue may change for each image capture process similar to a rolling code for example . As the user positions themselves in front of the reflective surface they may also position the user device in the proper relative placement as noted by the visual cue. The user may also provide any additional authentication variables such as a gesture gesture location user device angle and so forth . Once the user device is in the proper position the user device may automatically capture the image without additional input from the user. For example in one operational example the screen of the user device may have a visual indication flashing in the upper left quadrant of the screen. Once the user device detects through image analysis that the user device is positioned in the upper left quadrant of the image an image may be automatically captured and transmitted to the authentication computing system . While in some embodiments the user device may automatically capture an image in other embodiments the user may initiate the image capture by pressing a button physical or virtual on the user device .

It is noted that an audio cue may alternatively or additionally serve as a form of assistance. For example when the user has positioned in the user device in the proper relative position an audible alert may be provided by the user device . As is to be appreciated other forms of assistance may be used such as haptic feedback for example.

The various image components of the image received from the user device by an authentication computing system may be analyzed using any number of analytical techniques. shows an analysis technique that divides the image into a grid sixteen square segments. In one embodiment the grid is keyed to a chin of the user. As illustrated the reflected light source in the image is located in segment . As part of the authentication the authentication computing system analyzing the image could use a two part process. First the identity of the user could be determined by a biometric analysis of the user image . Second the relative placement of the reflected light source in the image could be used as an authentication variable. For example a comparison could be made to a baseline image stored in a database in order to confirm the reflected light source is in the proper segment. In some embodiments the proper segment may change over time. In such embodiments a user of the system would know in which segment to place the reflected light source based on a time of day day of the week or based on where the user was physically located for example.

The distance may be determined by the authentication computing system based on an analysis of one or more facial dimensions or ratios of dimensions of the user image . For example a head width dimension an eye width dimension and or a nose to ear dimension may be determined by any suitable image processing technique. In one embodiment the user image may be vectorized by the authentication computing system as part of the image analysis processing. Once the dimension s and or ratios are determined they can be compared to known biometric data stored by the authentication computing system in order to extrapolate the distance . The distance can also be determined for example by image analysis of the image received by the authentication computing system .

Once distances and are determined in one embodiment the angle may be calculated based on Equations 1 and 2 

Once angle has been determined it can then be compared to an angular value stored by the authentication computing system as an authentication variable.

By way of example an angular value of 30 may be stored by the authentication computing system . If the determined angle is in the range of 27 to 33 for example the flash angle may be deemed authenticated. It is to be appreciated that the acceptable range of angles may vary. In some embodiments for example the determined angle may be authenticated if it is within 25 of the stored angular value while other embodiments may only permit authentication if the determined angle is within 1 of the stored angular value.

In some embodiments real time image analysis of the image feed from the camera may be used during the image capture process. For example the image feed may be analyzed to determine one or more facial dimensions or ratios of dimensions of the user image such as the head width dimension and the eye width dimension . When the dimensions are at a predetermined value which may indicate the user is at a proper distance from the reflective surface the image may be automatically captured. As is to be appreciated visual and or audio cues can be provided to the user to assist with proper placement. Similar to above the distance may be determined by image analysis of the image received by the authentication computing system . Angle may then be determined using Equations 1 and 2 for example.

In some example embodiments in addition or alternatively to the various authentication techniques described above various authentication systems may perform a color signature analysis on the incoming image as part of the authentication process. shows a user authentication process in accordance with one non limiting embodiment. As shown at an event a user is interacting with a computer device . The computing device may be similar to user device and may include a camera and a graphical display . The computer device may send a request to an authentication module through a communications network . The request may be dispatched by an application running on the computing device . The request may include any information needed by the authentication module . The request may include for example a device ID or a user ID. Upon receipt of the request the authentication computing system may transmit a color key . The color key may be stored in a color database . In various embodiments the color key may be in the form of a hex code or a decimal code as shown in Table 1.

At event the computing device may output the color on the graphical display . The user can then position themselves proximate the graphical display so that the color is reflected off the user s feature as a color signature . In some embodiments the user positions themselves within about 12 inches of the graphical display . The computer device may then capture an image of the user with accompanying color signature using the camera . As is to be appreciated while not illustrated in the user may also make a gesture that could be captured by the camera . Furthermore the graphical display may be caused to sequentially display a plurality of different colors such as to provide a color keyed strobe affect as described herein.

At event the image is sent to the authentication computing system as illustrated by image upload . The image may be encrypted using any suitable encryption scheme. Upon receipt the authentication computing system may perform various analytic processes on the image. For example the authentication computing system may perform a color analysis on the color signature to confirm the proper color is present in the image and that it is properly reflected off the user. Furthermore biometric analysis techniques may also be performed to the image received to confirm the identity of the user. Biometric information may be stored in a biometric database . As is to be appreciated a gesture present in the image could also be analyzed by the authentication computing system as part of the authentication process. As is to be appreciated the authentication computing system may comprise a variety of databases relevant to the authentication process. For example in some embodiments one or more databases may store gesture related information. Database may also store various device specific variables such as machine IDs. Database or other associated databases may also various authentication variables such as flash angle variables user device angle variables shutter flash synchronicity variables and so forth.

At event an authentication confirmation is sent to the computing device . Upon receipt of the authentication confirmation an application or other gatekeeper on the computing device could allow the user access to the desired destination.

In some embodiments a moving image scan may be utilized for authentication purposes. The moving image scan sometimes referred to herein as a rotary scan can generate image data that is recorded as a video file or can generate image data that is a series of still images. The image data may be obtained as a user moves a user device in a particular path in space proximate to the user s body. The particular path may be chosen so that image data regarding a user s body is collected from many different angles so that it may be analyzed as part of the authentication process. In one embodiment the particular path is generally arc shaped and circumnavigates at least a portion of a user s head or upper torso. In some embodiments instead of moving the user device the user may move in a predetermined path while the camera on the user device remains relatively still. For example the user may slowly sweep or swivel their head side to side as image data is collected by a relatively stationary camera. The camera such as a camera on a user device may be held in the hand of a user or positioned on a stationary object for example.

In addition to image data additional contextual data may be collected during the moving image scan and provided to the authentication computing system as part of authentication processes utilizing man and machine binding. The contextual data may be collected by sensors that are onboard the user device such as gyroscopes accelerometers and electromagnetic field meters for example. This contextual data may be used by the authentication computing system to determine whether parameters associated with the predetermined path are within a particular range. For example for proper authentication a user may need to move the user device at a speed of about 2 ft sec in a counter clockwise direction while the user device held at about a 45 degree angle. Information that may be used to determine if these requirements are satisfied may be provided as contextual data that is sent with image data to the authentication computing system. Furthermore measurements related to electromagnetic fields may be included with the contextual data and be used to confirm that the user started and ended the path at the proper positions.

The data collected from the image scan using the strobing colors may not be sufficient to satisfy an authentication threshold. In some embodiments a communication feedback loop between the authentication computing system and the user may be used to obtain the user s observations during the scan. For example if the facial recognition data is not sufficient to authenticate the user the authentication computing system can send an electronic communication to the user device. The electronic communication can be in any suitable format such as a SMS text message an email message an in application message a messenger message and so forth. The electronic communication can ask the user to identify the color or colors they saw on the screen during the attempted authentication. The user can reply with the color using any suitable messaging technique such as a reply SMS message for example. If the user s observation of the color data matches the color that was in fact blinked on the screed on the user device the authentication computing system can use that observation to qualify the user. Accordingly using this techniques there generally two observers in the authentication process. The authentication computing system observes the illumination data reflected off the skin of a user by way of the image gathering process and the user observes the color that is displayed on the display of the user device.

In some embodiments the authentication may include acquisition of images from a plurality of devices in either a sequential or concurrent image collection process. For example for proper authentication a handheld mobile device may need to collect a first image of a user and a laptop computer or other computing device collects a second image of the user. In other embodiments a different collection of computing devices may be used to collect the images such as a mobile device and a wall mounted unit for example. illustrates an authentication process utilizing a multi image acquisition process in accordance with one non limiting embodiment. A user is positioned proximate to a first user device shown as a smart phone having a camera . The user is also positioned proximate to a second user device shown as a laptop having a camera . While two user devices are illustrated in some embodiments may utilize three more or more user devices. In any event the first user device collects first image and the second user device collects second image . The first image and the second image may be collected at generally the same time or they may be collected sequentially. Each image may include associated contextual data . The images may be provided to the authentication computing system for processing. As shown verification may be provided to the first user device if the authentication computing system to indicate a successful authentication of the user. It is noted that while the verification is shown being delivered to the first user device the verification may additionally or alternatively be delivered to the second user device .

Various systems and methods described herein may generally provide resource aware mobile computing. Examples of resources that can be considered include without limitation network bandwidth batter power application settings and the like. Based on the particular availability of the resources at the time of authentication the system may change the type of biometric data collected and transmitted the type of contextual data collected and transmitted or change other authentication parameters. During periods of relatively high resource availability the system can use authentication techniques that utilize large amount of resources such as bandwidth battery power and the like. During periods of relatively low resource availability the system can use authentication techniques that do not necessarily utilize large amount of resources. In some embodiments authentication procedures or at least some of the authentication procedures may be performed local to the computing device by a local authentication computing system. The amount or portion of the authentication process performed local to the computing device compared to the amount or portion of the authentication process performed remotely such as by authentication computing system may be based on available resources including environmental and or operational factors.

Example factors may include without limitation power source strength available data transmission rates available image processing ability type of network connections available i.e. cellular vs. WiFi and so forth. Thus resource aware decision making may be used to determine which part of the authentication process is performed locally and which part of the authentication process is performed remotely. In some embodiments the system attempts to perform the entire authentication process local to the user device. Such approach may be aimed to conserve bandwidth and or to minimize communications over a network. If the user cannot be properly authenticated communications with a remote authentication computing system may be utilized in an attempt to complete the authentication request. In some embodiments if the battery supply of the client device is beneath a certain threshold a majority of the authentication process is offloaded to the remote authentication computing system. Moreover the number of authentication variables considered or the types of authentication variables considered during the authentication process may be dependent on the environmental and or operational factors. For example during periods of high data connectivity and or high battery strength the authentication computing system may require the user device to supply a relatively high number of authentication variables and or resource intensive variables. During periods of low data connectivity and or low battery strength the authentication computing system may determine that a subset of authentication variables are suitable for authentication based on the operational conditions and request a limited number of authentication variables from the user device. In some embodiments when the user device resumes high data connectivity and or high battery strength the authentication computing system may require the user to re authenticate using additional authentication variables.

The memory unit may store executable software and data for authentication engine . When the processor of the local authentication computing system executes the software of the authentication engine the processor may be caused to perform the various operations of the local authentication computing system such as send information to remote computer devices process information received from remote computer devices and provide verification information regarding user authentication to applications executing on the user device . Data used by the authentication engine may be from various sources either local or remote such as a baseline image database and or baseline image database . The data stored in the baseline image database may be stored in a non volatile computer memory such as a hard disk drive a read only memory e.g. a ROM IC or other types of non volatile memory.

The user device in the illustrated embodiment also comprises various components such as a camera a microphone an input device a display screen a speaker and a power supply . As is to be readily appreciated other types of user device may have different components as those illustrated in . In any event the user may interact with various components during an authentication process. Depending on the available resources the authentication engine may determine whether to perform some or all of the authentication process or to offload some of all of the authentication process to the remote authentication computing system . For example if the available power in the power supply is relatively low the user device may offload much of the authentication processing to the remote authentication computing system . In another example if the data connection to the remote authentication computing system is unstable of low quality or non existent the user device may perform much of the authentication processing using the local authentication computing system .

In other embodiments the recipient biometrics includes a recipient fingerprint a recipient retina scan or other recipient biometric identifier. In the illustrated embodiment the second user illustrated as User 2 is the intended recipient of the file . Prior to being given access to the file the second user provides the user 2 biometrics to the authentication computing system . Such user 2 biometrics may include for example an image of the second user obtained using a camera not shown of the user device . When the user 2 biometrics are deemed to match the recipient biometrics or at least satisfy a confidence threshold that were originally provided by the first user an encrypted packet may be delivered to the user device of the second user. The encrypted packet may include the file .

While illustrates a one to one file sharing scenario other sharing scenarios may be facilitated by the authentication computing system such as a one to many file sharing scenario. In such scenarios user 1 may provide recipient biometrics for each of a plurality of recipients such as a group of N recipients. When the file is encrypted as described above biometrics from of all of the plurality of recipients may be used. Subsequently when a user seeks access to the encrypted file the authentication computing system may determine if the biometrics of the user seeking access to the file matches any one of the recipient biometrics provided by user 1. The authentication computing system may also utilized contextual data received from the user seeking access to the file as described herein.

In yet another embodiment one to many sharing scenario such as for high security type implementations a certain number of recipients must concurrently access the encrypted file at the same time or at least nearly at the same time in order for the collective group to gain access to the encrypted file. Such techniques may seek to ensure that certain files are accessed only in presence of other people. By way of example user 1 may identify the biometrics of N recipients that may access the file where N 1. User 1 may also identify a threshold number k where k 1 . . . N. Here k is the number of recipients that must each provide individual biometrics before the file is decrypted so that the file may be accessed by the group of k recipients. The value for k can be any suitable number and may vary based on implementation the desired level of security or any other factors. In some embodiment k is set by the authentication computing system based on the number N of recipients such that k is a majority of N for example. In some embodiments k is 20 of N rounded to the nearest integer and so forth. Furthermore in addition to having the requisite number of recipients providing biometrics the authentication computing system may also process contextual data associated with each recipient for an additional layer of security.

Subsequent to any pre transmission processing the processor may cause a message to be sent through the communications network to the authentication computing system . The message may be received by a listener . The listener may be listening for example to messages transmitted using HTTP or HTTPS protocols for an authentication request or a registration request. Here the message is an authentication request so the listener provides a message which includes registration data to a processor . The processor may process the information received and then provide a message to a user database a message to a biometric database and a message to a contextual database . The message may identify provide user identification data such as social security number patient ID number account number etc. the message may include for example image data and the message may include for example geolocational data and or machine identification data. Generally the messages and register a user of the user device with the authentication computing system . The database and may be implemented using any suitable type of database hardware or software. For example in some embodiments cloud based storage systems are utilized.

Subsequent to any pre transmission processing the processor may cause a message to be sent through the communications network to the authentication computing system . The message may be received by a listener as described above. Here the message is a registration request so the listener provides a message which includes authentication data to the processor . The processor may execute an authentication process utilizing various database calls. A message to the user database may seek confirmation of a user s personal data included in the message such as SSN patient number user name account number and so forth. A message may indicate whether a positive match was found.

A message to the biometric database may seek confirmation of a user s biometric data included in the message such as facial data fingerprint data and so forth. In some embodiments the biometric data is a streamed collection of facial images. A message may indicate whether a positive match was found. As is to be appreciated a positive match of the biometric data may be based on a threshold confidence level or other metric. A message to the contextual database may seek authentication of various types of additional data received from the user device such as geolocational data and or machine identification data. A message indicates if a positive match for contextual data was found. In some embodiments the confidence level threshold for biometric data along with the confidence level thresholds for other types of contextual data that are analyzed may be selectively increased or decreased to adjust the overall usability of function of the authentication system.

Upon receiving and processing the information from the various databases the processor may provide an authentication request response message to the listener . In turn the listener may transmit a message through the network to the user device indicating a positive or negative authentication.

Authentication processes in accordance with the present systems and methods may be triggered using any suitable techniques. For example when a user seeks to access a protection computing device application electronic document and so forth the authentication process may be triggered. In some embodiments a transponder such as an RFID device may be positioned proximate to a restricted access device such as a lockable door. Upon a user approaching the restricted access device the transponder may trigger an authentication process to activate on a user device of the user. The user device may gather and provide information such as biometric data and contextual data to an authentication computing system associated with door. When authentication is successfully performed an unlock command may be transmitted to the restricted access device.

The memory unit may store executable software and data. When the processor of the user device executes the software the processor may be caused to perform the various operations used for registration and authentication of a use of the user device such as send information to the authentication computing system and process information received from the authentication computing system .

The user device may comprise a wide variety of components some example of which are illustrated in . For example the user device may comprise a biometric collection unit for collecting biometric information from a user of the user device . In certain embodiments the biometric collection unit is a digital camera. The user device may also include without limitation an accelerometer a magnetometer or any other type of sensor device or component such as an ambient light sensor gyroscopic sensor microphone proximity sensor and so forth that may be used for collecting data or information that may be provided to the authentication computing system during a registration or authentication process.

During a registration process the user device may transmit a communication to the authentication computing system . The communication or at least components of the communication may be encrypted. In the illustrated embodiment the communication comprises base image data and contextual data . The base image data may be for example a series of streamed images of a user. The contextual data may comprise information gathered from one or more sensors such as magnetometer information regarding the user device such as a machine ID or ESN for example. Upon processing by the authentication computing system an output may be provided to the user device . The output may include for example an indication that registration is complete.

Subsequent to registration with the authentication computing system a use may seek an authorization request. illustrates an example simplified block diagram for a user authentication process. In the illustrated embodiment an authorization request comprises image data and contextual data . The image data may be for example streamed image data of a user s face. The contextual data may include for example machine ID or ESN information acceleration or movement data magnetic field data and so forth. In any event based on the image data and the contextual data the authentication computing system may determine whether the user of the user device is an authenticated user. An output may be transmitted to the user device to convey the results of the authentication request which may include an indication of authentication or an indication of non authentication .

In some embodiments an authentication computing system in accordance with the systems and methods described herein may be used by a certain relying parties such as using an OpenID type authentication. illustrates an example communication block diagram. A protected application may be accessible via a use device . The protected application may be without limitation a website a local application a remote application and so forth. A user operating the user device may either be a registered user of the OpenID platform or need to become a registered user in order to access the protected application . As illustrated during a new user registration process credentials may be logged with an authentication computing system . In some embodiments the credentials include both a user ID and biometric data such as an image. Once the user is registered with the OpenID platform the user s credentials may be provided to the authentication computing system which may include biometric data so that a user may be authenticated. It is noted that communications between the protected application and the authentication computing system may be facilitated through one or more application programming interfaces . Accordingly in some embodiments the authentication computing system may generally function as a third party biometric authentication tool for a variety of websites applications and the like.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that at least some of the embodiments described herein may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware. The software and firmware code may be executed by a processor or any other similar computing device. The software code or specialized control hardware that may be used to implement embodiments is not limiting. For example embodiments described herein may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer software language type using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. The operation and behavior of the embodiments may be described without specific reference to specific software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments based on the present description with no more than reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers or computer systems and or processors. Software that may cause programmable equipment to execute processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system nonvolatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore at least some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or stored on various types of computer readable media.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable medium or media that direct a computer system to perform the process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs CDs digital versatile discs DVDs optical disk drives or hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that is physical virtual permanent temporary semipermanent and or semitemporary.

A computer computer system host server or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software modules used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable media.

In various embodiments disclosed herein a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative such substitution is within the intended scope of the embodiments. Any servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers such as server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

The computer systems may comprise one or more processors in communication with memory e.g. RAM or ROM via one or more data buses. The data buses may carry electrical signals between the processor s and the memory. The processor and the memory may comprise electrical circuits that conduct electrical current. Charge states of various components of the circuits such as solid state transistors of the processor s and or memory circuit s may change during operation of the circuits.

While various embodiments have been described herein it should be apparent that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with attainment of at least some of the advantages. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope of the embodiments as set forth herein.

