---

title: Image forming apparatus, image formation method, and recording medium that execute application
abstract: Provided is the image forming apparatus, image formation method, and recording medium, which make unnecessary a change of the function in the side of a whole apparatus control platform, when the addition (extension) of the function of application is needed. Image processing service I/F, device operation service I/F, and network communication service I/F of a platform service I/F part are independent, without cooperating, respectively. Then, image processing service, device operation service, and network communication service of each part controlling service are called. That is calling a control service providing part of each part controlling service corresponding to the request from the standard application, directly, by each control service call part.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503602&OS=09503602&RS=09503602
owner: KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc.
number: 09503602
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150623
---
This application is based on and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 128381 filed on Jun. 23 2014 the contents of that are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an image forming apparatus an image formation method and a recording medium and is especially related with an image forming apparatus an image formation method and a recording medium that execute application software.

Some image forming apparatuses such as an MFP Multifunctional Peripheral and a printer which can print a document and an image can install and execute various applications Application Software. 

In addition some applications may have additional function such as a PDF generation card management and book management. Also some applications may allow to have cooperation with an apparatus such as a camera.

Incidentally in order to install and execute such applications it is necessary to develop each application so that the fundamental function of OS Operating System equipped in the image processing device can be used. Also when developing application it is also necessary to carry out efficiently so that high development cost may not be need.

To solve such a subject a typical case of the image forming apparatus is proposed. In the case a common part of each application is taken out as application service and common system service. Then a platform is formed by the application service common system service and a versatile OS. On the platform a printer application a copy application and various applications are equipped.

An image forming apparatus according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is provided with a control circuit. The control circuit includes an apparatus control platform that manages hardware resources on an operating system a standard application execution part that executes a standard application using the hardware resources managed on the appliance control platform an extended application platform that includes standard function service for making use function of the standard application executed by the standard application executing part extended function service for making use the hardware resources and an extended application management part for managing and executing an extended application to allow calling the standard function service and the extended function service respectively wherein the apparatus control platform includes a platform service interface part that provides an interface for using the hardware resources from outside of the apparatus control platform and each part controlling service that has a plurality of control service providing part for providing service for controlling the hardware resources the platform service interface part has a plurality of control service call part for determining a request from the standard application and for calling the control service providing part of each part controlling service corresponding to the request and each control service call part calls a control service providing part of each part controlling service corresponding to the request from the standard application directly.

An image formation method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure executed by an image forming apparatus having hardware resources includes managing hardware resources on an operating system by an apparatus control platform executing a standard application using the hardware resources managed on the apparatus control platform by standard application executing part managing and executing standard function service to make use function of the standard application executed by the standard application executing part extended function service to make use the hardware resources and an extended application to allow calling the standard function service and the extended function service respectively by an extended application management part included on an extended application platform wherein the apparatus control platform includes providing an interface for using the hardware resources from outside of the apparatus control platform by a platform service interface part and providing service for controlling the hardware resources by each part controlling service having a plurality of control service providing part and wherein the platform service interface part includes determining a request from the standard application by a plurality of control service call part and calling a control service providing part of each part controlling service corresponding to the request from the standard application directly by each control service call part.

An computer readable non transitory recording medium according to an embodiment of the present disclosure stores an image formation program executable by a computer for controlling an image forming apparatus the image formation program causing the computer to manage hardware resources on an operating system by an apparatus control platform execute a standard application using the hardware resources managed on the apparatus control platform by standard application executing part manage and executing standard function service to make use function of the standard application executed by the standard application executing part extended function service to make use the hardware resources and an extended application to allow calling the standard function service and the extended function service respectively by an extended application management part included on an extended application platform wherein the apparatus control platform includes providing an interface for using the hardware resources from outside of the apparatus control platform by a platform service interface part and providing service for controlling the hardware resources by each part controlling service having a plurality of control service providing part and wherein the platform service interface part includes determining a request from the standard application by a plurality of control service call part and calling a control service providing part of each part controlling service corresponding to the request from the standard application directly by each control service call part.

Then as refer to the system configuration of image forming apparatus is described. In addition in the following explanation an application is application software. In image forming apparatus image processing part manuscript reading part manuscript feeding part conveyance part network transmission and reception part operation panel part image formation part FAX transmission and reception part and the memory part or the like are connected to control part . Each part is operation controlled by control part .

Control part is an information processing circuit. Control part reads a control program memorized in memory part expands and executes the control program and thereby operates as each part of functional blocks as described later. Also control part controls a whole device according to instructions information input from an external terminal or operation panel part .

Image processing part is a control and arithmetic circuit. Image processing part carries out specific image processing to various kinds of image data. Image processing part performs various image processing such as scaling density control gradation adjustment and an image improvement for example. Image processing part memorizes an image read by manuscript reading part as print data in memory part . In this case image processing part can also convert the print data into a file unit.

Manuscript reading part is a circuit that reads a set manuscript. Manuscript feeding part is a mechanism in which the manuscript read by manuscript reading part is conveyed. Conveyance part is a mechanism that conveys a recording paper from a sheet paper cassette performs image formation by image formation part and conveys to a stack tray after that. Image formation part is a circuit to perform the image formation from the data to the recording paper. By output instruction by a user the data is memorized in memory part is read by manuscript reading part or is acquired from an external terminal.

Network transmission and reception part is a network connection circuit for connecting with an external network. Network transmission and reception part transmits and receives data in a data communication line. Network transmission and reception part transmits and receives a sound signal in a voice telephone line. Network transmission and reception part may be connected with the terminal in outside such as PC Personal Computer a smart phone a PDA Personal Data Assistant and a mobile phone a server or the like via the network.

Operation panel part is a circuit having a display part and an input part. The input part includes various buttons a touch panel or the like. The various buttons are a numeric keypad a start cancel and a button for switching of operational mode a button for performing instructions related to execution of a job or the like. The button for switching of operational mode changes operational modes such as a copy FAX transmission and a scanner. The button for performing instructions related to execution of a job acquires instructions related to execution of the job such as printing transmission memory record or the like for a selected document. Operation panel part acquires a user instruction. The user instruction includes an instruction of installation or use for extended application Application Software application as described later. Also by the user instruction each user information can be input and changed. Therefore operation panel part may have a control part a recording media such as ROM and RAM for exclusive use cooperate with control part and controls GUI Graphical User Interface. The details of control of operation panel part at the time of installation or use of extended application are described later. Also operation panel part may have a connecting part in order to connect a recording medium such as a USB memory and flash memory card or an external apparatus equipped with a recording medium.

FAX transmission and reception part is a circuit such as a FAX board that transmits and receives a facsimile. FAX transmission and reception part renders the image data read by manuscript reading part the file received from network transmission and reception part or the like and performs facsimile transmission. Also FAX transmission and reception part performs image formation of the image data by image formation part . The image data has been memorized in memory part or performed facsimile reception. Also FAX transmission and reception part transmits the image data to the external terminal from network transmission and reception part .

Memory part is a circuit including a non transitory recording medium and a controller. In memory part the control program and data for operation controlling image forming apparatus are memorized. The control programs and data may be provided in a type such as firmware. Also the control program and data are expanded in run time and control part executes. Also in memory part various job data image data scanned by manuscript reading part image data performed image processing by image processing part various files such as print documents transmitted from other terminals various files read from the connected recording medium a data of a thumbnail image or the like may be memorized. Also memory part may memorize an account setup of a user. Also in memory part area of a document box for each user may be included.

In addition as for image forming apparatus control part and image processing part may be integrally formed. Also control part and image processing part may integrate the non transitory recording medium.

Then referring to a control configuration of image forming apparatus is described. As three hierarchical block structures image forming apparatus has standard application executing part apparatus control platform extended application platform and extended application . By control part executing the control program of the present disclosure standard application executing part apparatus control platform and extended application platform are realized on the circuit of control part . Further based on the control configuration shown in control part can execute extended application standard application and versatile OS .

Standard application executing part is a circuit that executes standard application by using hardware resources managed on apparatus control platform . Standard application executing part has standard application installed on apparatus control platform and service corresponding to the standard application .

Apparatus control platform manages the hardware resources of image forming apparatus as a whole on versatile OS Operating System . Apparatus control platform is a circuit that controls each part by a functional processing module. Apparatus control platform is a program and data that becomes an executing framework of standard application and includes API Application Programming Interface middleware run time data a linker or the like hereinafter it is called API or the like service on versatile OS service or daemon and hereinafter it is called service or the like interpreter JIT Just In Time compiler which perform translation and execution of a script language or intermediate language a virtual machine or the like hereinafter it is called a virtual machine or the like. Also extended application platform itself is operated on versatile OS .

Extended application platform is a circuit that calls standard application and uses the function. Also extended application platform calls apparatus control platform and uses the hardware resources. Extended application platform manages and executes extended application . Extended application platform is a program and data including the API or the like the service or the like and the virtual machine or the like. Extended application platform serves as an executing framework of extended application . Also extended application platform itself is operated on versatile OS .

Extended application is a program and data of the application that performs various processing on extended application platform .

As explained in more detail standard application executing part has standard application and standard application service I F part standard application service interface part .

Standard application is a program and data of the application that performs various processing on apparatus control platform . Standard application acquires a user instruction and uses the various function of an image forming apparatus with the user instruction. Also for example standard application may be an application written in intermediate language or various script languages or the like.

Standard application may already be installed in a state of factory shipments. For example these may be copy application printer application FAX application and various standard application or the like. Copy application when the instruction of the copy by the user from operation panel part are acquired reads a manuscript by manuscript reading part and performs image formation by image formation part . Printer applications by the instruction from an external terminal or the like renders the file of PDL Page Description Language or the like received by network transmission and reception part . Printer application performs image formation for the rendered data by image formation part . Also printer application may render the file or the like in the document box in memory part with the instruction by the user in operation panel part . In this case image formation of the rendered data is also performed by image formation part .

FAX application acquires the instruction of the facsimile transmission by the user from operation panel part . Then FAX application reads a manuscript in manuscript reading part and performs facsimile transmission by FAX transmission and reception part . Also FAX application may render the file or the like which is received from the external terminal and may transmit by FAX transmission and reception part . Also FAX application performs image formation by image formation part the image data of the facsimile received by FAX transmission and reception part . Also FAX application may memorize the received image data of the facsimile in the document box in memory part . Various standard applications includes after mentioned transmission application or the like. The transmission application transmits the image data or the like via network transmission and reception part .

Standard application service I F part provides the interface for using the function of standard application from outside of standard application executing part . Standard application service I F part may be provided as classes of Java registered trademark or the like an interface on Java language a routine a function a header file an object a library or the like for example. Also standard application service I F part may be provided as service on versatile OS or the like. Also standard application service I F part may provide a different interface for each standard application . Also standard application service I F part can perform execution installation change setup deletion or the like for standard application .

Apparatus control platform has platform service I F part platform service interface part each part controlling service and versatile OS .

Platform service I F part provides the interface for using the hardware resources from outside of apparatus control platform . Platform service I F part calls each part controlling service and makes use the hardware resources for each part of image forming apparatus . Platform service I F part may be provided as service on versatile OSs such as API or the like for example. Also platform service I F part may be provided as a structure of C language a class of C language other objects a routine a function a header file an object file a library or the like hereinafter it is called a class or the like. Also platform service I F part may be provided with intermediate language file of Java or the like for example.

Each part controlling service is service or the like which controls each part corresponding to the function of image forming apparatus by a suitable method. Each part controlling service operates for example image processing part operation panel part and network transmission and reception part or the like as corresponded to the call from platform service I F part . Also each part controlling service can call a copy function a network scanning function a document box function or the like. Also each part controlling service may be combined with different services or the like API or the like a class or the like according to a product line and may be included in the firmware.

Versatile OS controls each part of image forming apparatus . As versatile OS a common OS for versatile use a versatile OS for embedded use a real time versatile OS or the like can be used for example. Also kernel a core or the like for versatile OS may be included in firmware. The kernel a core or the like are programs data or the like which performs schedule management and manages basic hardware. Also versatile OS can add control programs such as a device driver and a script separately. The device driver may be made in a language considering performance as important. The language may be C language C language assembler language or the like for example.

Extended application platform includes standard function service extended function service versatile OS installation service operating system installation service and extended application management part extended application management part .

Standard function service is service or the like which makes use the function of standard application corresponding to standard application service I F part . Standard function service receives the call that specifies each function of respective standard application from extended application . Standard function service transmits the respective call to standard application service I F part . Then standard function service executes the respective function of the respective standard application .

Extended function service is service or the like which makes use the hardware resources corresponding to platform service I F part . Extended function service receives the call that specifies the function of each part of image forming apparatus from extended application . Extended function service transmits the respective call to platform service I F part . Then extended function service executes the respective function of respective part.

Extended application management part manages and executes extended application that can call standard function service and extended function service . Extended application management part manages installation activation execution stop execution uninstallation or the like for extended application Hereinafter these processes are called management of life cycle for extended application . 

Activation is a process to change to an usable state from image forming apparatus . Also extended application management part performs these managements by API of extended application platform . Also extended application management part may perform activation of extended application when the certification information is acquired from operation panel part or the like. Thereby extended application is also be in the usable state.

Versatile OS installation service is service or the like for adding a function to versatile OS . Versatile OS installation service installs control programs such as a device driver and a script on versatile OS . In this case versatile OS installation service may not change the firmware memorized in the non transitory recording medium but may make an additional change. Further versatile OS installation service can also change contents of a configuration file of versatile OS . Therefore for example versatile OS installation service may make change or erase a file memorized in a directory such as var. Also versatile OS installation service may change a database of a registry or the like. In addition versatile OS installation service can change or update a part or a whole of firmware.

Extended application is the program and data of application executed on extended application platform . Extended application can call standard function service and can execute the process of using the function of standard application . Also extended application can call extended function service and can execute the process by using the function of each part in image forming apparatus . Also extended application can call versatile OS installation service and can execute the process of installing the additional function to versatile OS . Therefore extended application makes possible to perform various processing that cannot be used in image forming apparatus itself. Also extended application may be configured as included an executable file and various data. The executable file operates on extended application platform . Also various data includes class information or the like. In this case the executable file of extended application may be a binary file of an application for example. The binary file is a file of various script languages a file of the intermediate language for an application a native executable file or the like. In case that there is little restriction of resources such as a process speed and memory requirements capacity extended application may be a file of a script language or a file of intermediate language. In case that there is restriction of a resource extended application may be written in C language C language assembler language or the like which are excellent in performance. In addition extended application may include needed data.

Extended application includes for example a practical use applications such a OCR Optical Character Recognition a monitoring camera application a watermark generation a bill generation staff register management slip management contract management card management a PDF generation book management and group management. Also extended application may be an installer application that addition or change of a device driver firmware or the like on versatile OS . Also extended applications may be other management applications or the like. Also a plurality of extended applications may be equipped. Also extended application may be installed from image forming apparatus other terminals or the like and may be memorized in memory part . Also extended application may be memorized in the external recording medium. Also extended application may be selected executable or not as corresponded to model peculiar information of image forming apparatus . Also when each extended application is installed or executed Activation may be needed. By the activation the respective extended application is associated with respective image forming apparatus and changes into a usable state. In addition respective extended application may be installed for each model of image forming apparatus .

In addition each part as shown in can be realized by reading the control program memorized in memory part and executed by control part . Also each part as shown in can be access and control each part which is hardware resources as shown in . Also each part can perform reading and writing transmission and reception or the like for various data.

 The Detailed Configuration of Standard Application Platform Service I F Part and Each Part Controlling Service 

Then referring to the detailed configuration of standard application platform service I F part and each part controlling service is described. Standard application includes copy application printer application FAX application and various standard application or the like as mentioned above. Standard application provides the job that shows a request according to the instruction by the user from operation panel part . These jobs are copy application job printer application job and FAX application job various normal application job or the like.

Platform service I F part of apparatus control platform calls each part of image forming apparatus by each part controlling service . Thereby platform service I F part makes hardware resources use. Therefore platform service I F part has standard application and the interface respectively. The interface corresponds to each available function from extended function service .

Explaining in detail for example platform service I F part includes image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F as an interface. Each interface corresponds to each function used from standard application or extended function service for example. Image processing service I F is an interface corresponding to function of apparatus control platform about generation conversion and output of the data of image processing. Device operation service I F is an interface corresponding to function of apparatus control platform about controlling a device in each part. Network communication service I F is an interface corresponding to function of apparatus control platform about network transmission and reception.

In addition in platform service I F part image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F do not need to cooperate respectively. Therefore in each part controlling service image processing service device operation service and network communication service may be called independently as described later. That is for copy application job of copy application as mentioned above for example image processing service I F calls the after mentioned image processing service and device operation service . These details are described later. Also image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F in platform service I F part are independent without cooperating respectively. Therefore for example when it is necessary to add extension to function for copy application printer application FAX application various standard application or the like either of corresponding image processing service I F device operation service I F or network communication service I F is changed. Thereby correspondence to the addition extension of a function can be done.

Each part controlling service includes image processing service device operation service and network communication service .

Image processing service provides service about generation conversion and output of the data of image processing. For example image processing service makes memory part memorize the image data which is read the manuscript by manuscript reading part set up resolution a color or the like. Also for example image processing service performs image processing of the image data and document data in memory part to image processing part . Also image processing service renders the image data which is performed image formation by image formation part from the file or the like.

Device operation service provides the service or the like for controlling the device of each part. Device operation service memorizes the image data acquired from manuscript reading part to memory part for example. Also device operation service renders an image on a browser displayed on the display part of operation panel part . Also device operation service transmits the rendered image data to image formation part and makes perform image formation. Also device operation service performs facsimile transmission of the image data memorized in memory part by FAX transmission and reception part . Also device operation service can call each function of option equipment in image forming apparatus . The each function is for example when the finisher is present bookbinding or a staple or the like when the user authentication part by using an IC card or biometrics is present user authentication by a respective user authentication part and when the camera is present acquisition of a camera image line of sight detection or the like. Also device operation service may perform control closer to the hardware configuration of apparatus. In this case for example device operation service may make one of the motors of a conveyance part drive. Also device operation service may perform a process to acquire the state of each part or the like.

Network communication service provides service about network transmission and reception or the like. For example Network communication service transmits and receives the file or the like between other image forming apparatuses and servers a terminal or the like with network transmission and reception part by using various protocols such as TCP IP or UDP. For example network communication service can also transmit and receive the scanned image data the file of a document box or the like. In addition network communication service can perform transmission and reception of the image data of the facsimile transmission and reception by FAX transmission and reception part when the user authentication part is present transmission and reception of a user authentication result and when the camera is present transmission and reception of video image data or the like. Also network communication service can transmit and receive the state of each part of image forming apparatus the call result of the function of each part or the like 

 Image Process by Image Forming Apparatus Then as refer to image process by image forming apparatus related to the embodiment of the present disclosure is explained. In addition for example in and processes by the side of platform service I F part to copy application in standard application is explained. Also in and the process by the side of platform service I F part to printer application in standard application is explained.

Firstly as shown in a user sets a manuscript and performs a copy setup in operation panel part Step S . When the start button of operation panel part is depressed Step S the service starts. A copy setup here is for example selecting a copy function in operation panel part or selecting a number of copy sheets. Here by pushing on the start button copy application job indicating the request from copy application is provided Step S . In this case image processing service I F of platform service I F part determines that it is copy process from copy application job Step S YES . Image processing service I F calls device operation service and image processing service Steps S and S . That is as shown as dotted line arrow in if copy application job indicating the request from copy application is copy process device operation service and image processing service are called. In this case as for copy application job image processing service I F does not cooperate with device operation service I F and network communication service I F . If it does not determine copy process at Step S Step S NO a process is ended here. The reason is for determining by device operation service I F or network communication service I F .

Here reading scan of the manuscript by manuscript reading part is started by the service in connection with control provided from device operation service . The image data read here is memorized by the service in connection with the control provided from device operation service . For example the storage destination is in the document box in memory part as mentioned above. Also by service in connection with the control provided from image processing service image formation of the image data memorized in the document box in memory part is performed and further it is printed on a recording paper. Until printing is completed it is determined whether or not copy process is finished Step S NO . After copy process is finished Step S YES device operation service and the service from image processing service are ended.

Then with reference to and the process by the side of platform service I F part to printer application in standard application is explained. In the following for example a case is explained that the image data in the document box in memory part is printed on the recording paper. Firstly as shown in the user performs print setting in operation panel part Step S . If the start button of operation panel part is depressed Step S the service starts. Print setting in this case is for example selecting the print function in operation panel part or selecting the image data to be printed. Here if the start button is pressed printer application job which shows the request from printer application is provided Step S . In this case image processing service I F of platform service I F part determines that it is print process from printer application job Step S YES . In the case image processing service I F calls device operation service and image processing service Steps S and S . That is as shown at a dotted line arrow in if printer application job indicating the request from printer application is print process image processing service I F does not cooperate with device operation service I F and network communication service I F . Then image processing service I F calls device operation service and image processing service . If it does not determine the print process at Step S Step S NO device operation service I F or network communication service I F is determined. Therefore the process is ended here.

Here by the service in connection with the control provided from device operation service the image data memorized in the document box in memory part is read. Also by the service in connection with the control provided from image processing service image formation of the image data read from the document box in memory part is performed and is printed on the recording paper. Until printing is completed it is determined whether or not print processing is ended Step S NO . After print processing is ended Step S YES device operation service and the service from image processing service are ended.

In addition a case of transmitting the image data memorized in the document box in memory part as mentioned above is explained. In this case for example a process in the side of platform service I F part corresponded to a transmission application which is included in various standard applications is as follows. That is as shown in network communication service I F of platform service I F part discriminates a transmission process from the various normal application job of the transmission application. Then network communication service I F calls image processing service device operation service I F and network communication service I F . Here by the service in connection with the control provided from device operation service the image data memorized in the document box in memory part is read. Also by the service in connection with the control provided from image processing service image formation of the image data read from the document box in memory part is performed. Then by the service in connection with the control provided from network communication service I F the image data which is performed image formation is transmitted to destination specified by the user.

The typical architecture as mentioned above is configured as two layers which are a platform and an application. The platform is based on application service common system service and a versatile OS. Also the application uses function that a side of the platform provides. By this configuration development of application becomes possible by using the common platform. Thereby development efficiency can be raised.

Incidentally in these typical image forming apparatuses when either of applications is used cooperation of the various modules in the side of the platform is needed. The case of a copy process by using a copy application is explained as an example. The copy job generating module of the copy application in the side of application to an engine job execution control module of ECS Engine Control Service in the side of the platform calls a job execution start function and instructs job execution. Also engine job execution control module to an image memory handling module of MCS Memory Control Service in the side of the platform an image memory secured function is called. Accordingly reservation of an image memory is directed.

Such cooperation of the various modules in the side of the platform is set up previously as correspond to various applications on the platform. Therefore there is a problem when the addition extension of the function of either application is needed change of the function in the side of a whole platform is required.

As compared with this in the present embodiment hardware resources are managed by apparatus control platform on an operating system versatile OS . Also by standard application executing part standard application executing part the standard application standard application by using the hardware resources managed on apparatus control platform is executed. Also by the extended application management part extended application management part included in an extended application platform extended application platform the extended application extended application that can be called standard function service extended function service for which hardware resources are made to use standard function service and extended function service respectively which makes to use the function of the standard application standard application executed by a standard application executing part standard application executing part is managed and executed.

Thereby according to the image forming apparatus image formation method and image formation program of the present disclosure each control service call part calls the control service providing part of each part controlling service corresponding to the request from the standard application directly. Accordingly when the addition extension of the function of either of applications is needed it only needs to change the function of the corresponding control service call part and it enables to make unnecessary to change the function by the side of a whole platform apparatus control platform. 

Here apparatus control platform includes the platform service interface part platform service I F part that provides the interface for using hardware resources from outside of the apparatus control platform and each part controlling service having a plurality of control service providing parts image processing service device operation service and network communication service which provide the service for controlling hardware resources platform service interface part platform service I F part has a plurality of control service call parts image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F which determines the request from the standard application standard application calls the control service providing part Image processing service device operation service and network communication service of each part controlling service corresponding to the request and each control service call part image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F directly calls the control service providing part image processing service device operation service and network communication service of each part controlling service corresponding to the request from a standard application standard application . In this way each control service call part image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F directly calls the control service providing part Image processing service device operation service and network communication service of each part controlling service corresponding to the request from the standard application standard application . 

In other words image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F in platform service I F part independently calls image processing service device operation service and network communication service in each part controlling service without cooperating respectively. Thereby when the addition extension of the function for either of applications is needed what is necessary is to change only the function of corresponding image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F . That is a change of the function by the side of a whole apparatus control platform can make unnecessary. Also image processing service I F device operation service I F and network communication service I F in platform service I F part is independent without each cooperating. Therefore since it becomes unnecessary to take into consideration for cooperation to each module it becomes possible to develop apparatus control platform efficiently.

Also in the present embodiment extended application platform includes standard function service that makes to use the function corresponding to standard application service I F part from standard application executed by standard application executing part extended function service for which the hardware resources corresponding to platform I F part service I F are made to use and extended application management part that makes manages and executes extended application which can call standard function service and extended function service . Thereby it becomes possible to use the function of standard application or hardware resources corresponding to each part from extended application . Accordingly the customization that changes a configuration according to a customer becomes easy and it can promote reduction of development cost. That is image forming apparatus of the present embodiment can be quickly developed by a script language or the like in case that what is necessary is just to use the function of standard application . On the contrary in case of having necessary for customization to control hardware resources directly it becomes possible to call the function of each part without using standard application .

Also in the present embodiment it has standard application service I F part that provides the interface for using the function of standard application from outside of standard application executing part . Thereby it becomes easy to provide the unified form interface between apparatus control platforms . Accordingly it becomes easy to make extended application in the unified development environment and thus development cost is reducible. Also it becomes easily executable hardware resources which is used by apparatus control platform from extended application . Therefore performance such as speed of extended application at the execution time can be raised.

In addition in memory part of image forming apparatus in the present embodiment an application which is different type from standard application or extended application can also be memorized. For example memory part can be memorized Web applications other than extended application or the like henceforth an external application. 

Also memory part may be memorized user data or the like. The external application may be called by an instruction by the user in operation panel part of image forming apparatus . In this case the external application may be read to image forming apparatus and may be executed. As configured in this way an application of extended application platform and standard application can be properly used flexibly. Accordingly usability of the user can be received. Also although the present embodiment explains the present disclosure in the case of applying to an image forming apparatus it is applicable not only to this example but a variety of information processing apparatus. That is a configuration that a network scanner a server or the like separately connected to a scanner by USB or the like can be used. Also it is applicable to an information processing equipment allowable to install an application such as PC a smart phone a mobile phone office equipment industrial equipment or the like.

