---

title: Expertise discovery in social networks
abstract: A method and system of expertise discovery in social networks accesses behavioral information associated with users' use of a computer-implemented social network, whereby the computer-implemented social network enables its users to have subscribing relationships with other users. Expertise levels of users of the social network with respect to one or more topics are automatically inferred from the behavioral information. The behavioral information may comprise interactions by other users with respect to content published by a user. The expertise levels of users may be inferred in accordance with the expertise levels of other users who are subscribed to them. Recommendations of users based on their expertise levels may be delivered, as well as explanations for the recommendations. Expertise levels of multiple users and/or expertise levels of a user over time may be delivered for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454730&OS=09454730&RS=09454730
owner: ManyWorlds, Inc.
number: 09454730
owner_city: Brenham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150917
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 462 788 filed on Aug. 19 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 941 filed on Jul. 23 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 843 433 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 295 414 filed on Nov. 14 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 600 926 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 268 035 filed on Oct. 7 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 650 149 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 469 052 filed Mar. 29 2011 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 496 025 filed Jun. 12 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 513 920 filed Aug. 1 2011 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth herein in their entirety.

This invention relates to systems and methods for incorporating an adaptive layer of auto learning capabilities within one or more computer implemented systems.

Existing computer implemented recommender systems can provide personalized recommendations basis expected interests of recommendation recipients derived from behavioral history with respect to system use. Existing search engines can index the contents of documents and retrieve information based on search terms provided by users. However these approaches operating independently are inadequate in some cases for delivering the most useful information to computer systems users. Thus there is a need for a system and method that beneficially integrates the two approaches.

In accordance with the embodiments described herein a system and method for generating personalized recommendations based at least in part on combining behavioral based indexing and contents based indexing is disclosed. The interest levels and or expertise levels of users may be inferred from behavioral information during the behavioral based indexing of one or more computer implemented systems. The contents of objects of one or more computer implemented systems may be indexed by for example a search engine into vectors of object informational elements and associated relevancy values. Topical areas of interest and or expertise associated with users are mapped to object information elements. An evaluation of interest and or expertise levels for the mapped topics versus the relevancy values of the informational elements of objects provides a basis for selecting the objects to be delivered to the user.

Other features and embodiments will become apparent from the following description from the drawings and from the claims.

In the following description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these details and that numerous variations or modifications from the described embodiments may be possible.

A method and system for transforming one or more non adaptive or inadequately adaptive systems to an adaptive system are disclosed. In some embodiments originating fuzzy or non fuzzy network information structures are transformed to fuzzy network structures so as to enable a greater capacity for adaptation while retaining a degree of contextual correspondence. The term fuzzy network as used herein is defined as a computer implemented plurality of nodes with relationships among the nodes that have affinities that are by degree. The nodes of a fuzzy network may comprise any type of computer implemented information. In contrast non fuzzy networks including hierarchies comprise a plurality of nodes with relationships among the nodes that are binary that is either the relationships between any two nodes exist or do not exist. A non fuzzy network can therefore be considered just a particularly constrained form of a fuzzy network.

In some embodiments knowledge discovery and expertise discovery functions are applied to the original non fuzzy network and or the transformed structure. In some embodiments additional learning layer functions may be applied to the originating and or transformed structures to enable additional or enhanced adaptive features including applying functions to enhance beneficial serendipity with regard to personalized recommendations.

In some embodiments the present invention may apply the methods and systems of an adaptive system as depicted by . is a generalized depiction of an adaptive system according to some embodiments. The adaptive system includes three aspects a structural aspect a usage aspect and a content aspect . One or more users interact with the adaptive system . An adaptive recommendations function may produce adaptive recommendations based upon the user interactions and the recommendations may be delivered to the user or applied to the adaptive system .

As used herein one or more users may be a single user or multiple users. As shown in the one or more users may receive the adaptive recommendations . Non users of the adaptive system may also receive adaptive recommendations from the adaptive system .

A user may be a human entity a computer system or a second adaptive system distinct from the adaptive system that interacts with or otherwise uses the adaptive system. The one or more users may therefore include non human users that interact with the adaptive system . In particular one or more other adaptive systems may serve as virtual system users. Although not essential these other adaptive systems may operate in accordance with the architecture of the adaptive system . Thus multiple adaptive systems may be mutual users of one another.

It should be understood that the structural aspect the content aspect the usage aspect and the recommendations function of the adaptive system and elements of each may be contained within one processor based device or distributed among multiple processor based devices and wherein one or more of the processor based devices may be portable. Furthermore in some embodiments one or more non adaptive systems may be transformed to one or more adaptive systems by means of operatively integrating the usage aspect and the recommendations function with the one or more non adaptive systems. In some embodiments the structural aspect of a non adaptive system may be transformed to a fuzzy network based structural aspect to provide a greater capacity for adaptation.

The term computer system or the term system without further qualification as used herein will be understood to mean either a non adaptive or an adaptive system. Likewise the terms system structure or system content as used herein will be understood to refer to the structural aspect and the content aspect respectively whether associated with a non adaptive system or the adaptive system . The term system structural subset or structural subset as used herein will be understood to mean a portion or subset of the elements of the structural aspect of a system.

The structural aspect of the adaptive system is depicted in the block diagram of . The structural aspect comprises a collection of system objects that are part of the adaptive system as well as the relationships among the objects if they exist. The relationships among objects may be persistent across user sessions or may be transient in nature. The objects may include or reference items of content such as text graphics audio video interactive content or embody any other type or item of computer implemented information. The objects may also include references such as pointers to content. Computer applications executable code or references to computer applications may also be stored as objects in the adaptive system . The content of the objects is known herein as information . The information though part of the object is also considered part of the content aspect as depicted in and described below.

The objects may be managed in a relational database or may be maintained in structures such as but not limited to flat files linked lists inverted lists hypertext networks or object oriented databases. The objects may include meta information associated with the information contained within or referenced by the objects .

As an example in some embodiments the World wide Web could be considered a structural aspect wherein web pages constitute the objects of the structural aspect and links between web pages constitute the relationships among the objects. Alternatively or in addition in some embodiments the structural aspect could be composed of objects associated with an object oriented programming language and the relationships between the objects associated with the protocols and methods associated with interaction and communication among the objects in accordance with the object oriented programming language.

The one or more users of the adaptive system may be explicitly represented as objects within the system therefore becoming directly incorporated within the structural aspect . The relationships among objects may be arranged in a hierarchical structure a relational structure e.g. according to a relational database structure or according to a network structure.

The content aspect of the adaptive system is depicted in the block diagram of . The content aspect comprises the information contained in or referenced by the objects that are part of the structural aspect . The content aspect of the objects may include text graphics audio video and interactive forms of content such as applets tutorials courses demonstrations modules or sections of executable code or computer programs. The one or more users interact with the content aspect .

The content aspect may be updated based on the usage aspect as well as associated metrics. To achieve this the adaptive system may use or access information from other systems. Such systems may include but are not limited to other computer systems other networks such as the World Wide Web multiple computers within an organization other adaptive systems or other adaptive recombinant systems. In this manner the content aspect benefits from usage occurring in other environments.

The usage aspect of the adaptive system is depicted in the block diagram of although it should be understood that the usage aspect may also exist independently of adaptive system in some embodiments. The usage aspect denotes captured usage information further identified as usage behaviors and usage behavior pre processing . The usage aspect thus reflects the tracking storing categorization and clustering of the use and associated usage behaviors of the one or more users interacting with or being monitored by the adaptive system . Applying usage behavioral information including but not limited to the usage behavioral information described by Table 1 to generate relationships or affinities among objects may be termed behavioral indexing herein.

The captured usage information known also as system usage or system use may include any user behavior exhibited by the one or more users while using the system. The adaptive system may track and store user key strokes and mouse clicks for example as well as the time period in which these interactions occurred e.g. timestamps as captured usage information . From this captured usage information the adaptive system identifies usage behaviors of the one or more users e.g. a web page access or email transmission . Finally the usage aspect includes usage behavior pre processing in which usage behavior categories usage behavior clusters and usage behavioral patterns are formulated for subsequent processing of the usage behaviors by the adaptive system . Non limiting examples of the usage behaviors that may be processed by the adaptive system as well as usage behavior categories designated by the adaptive system are listed in Table 1 and described in more detail below.

The usage behavior categories usage behaviors clusters and usage behavior patterns may be interpreted with respect to a single user or to multiple users the multiple users may be described herein as a community an affinity group or a user segment. These terms are used interchangeably herein. A community is a collection of one or more users and may include what is commonly referred to as a community of interest. A sub community is also a collection of one or more users in which members of the sub community include a portion of the users in a previously defined community. Communities affinity groups and user segments are described in more detail below.

Usage behavior categories include types of usage behaviors such as accesses referrals to other users collaboration with other users and so on. These categories and more are included in Table 1 below. Usage behavior clusters are groupings of one or more usage behaviors either within a particular usage behavior category or across two or more usage categories. The usage behavior pre processing may also determine new clusterings of user behaviors in previously undefined usage behavior categories across categories or among new communities. Usage behavior patterns also known as usage behavioral patterns or behavioral patterns are also groupings of usage behaviors across usage behavior categories . Usage behavior patterns are generated from one or more filtered clusters of captured usage information .

The usage behavior patterns may also capture and organize captured usage information to retain temporal information associated with usage behaviors . Such temporal information may include the duration or timing of the usage behaviors such as those associated with reading or writing of written or graphical material oral communications including listening and talking and or monitored behaviors such as physiological responses physical location and environmental conditions local to the user . The usage behavioral patterns may include segmentations and categorizations of usage behaviors corresponding to a single user of the one or more users or according to multiple users e.g. communities or affinity groups . The communities or affinity groups may be previously established or may be generated during usage behavior pre processing based on inferred usage behavior affinities or clustering. Usage behaviors may also be derived from the use or explicit preferences associated with other adaptive or non adaptive systems.

As shown in the adaptive system generates adaptive recommendations using the adaptive recommendations function . The adaptive recommendations or suggestions enable users to more effectively use and or navigate the adaptive system .

The adaptive recommendations are presented as structural subsets of the structural aspect which may comprise an item of content multiple items of content a representation of one or more users and or a user activity or stream of activities. The recommended content or activities may include information generated automatically by a processor based system or device such as for example by a process control device. A recommendation may comprise a spatial or temporal sequence of objects. The adaptive recommendations may be in the context of a currently conducted activity of the system a current position while navigating the structural aspect a currently accessed object or information or a communication with another user or another system. The adaptive recommendations may also be in the context of a historical path of executed system activities accessed objects or information or communications during a specific user session or across user sessions. The adaptive recommendations may be without context of a current activity currently accessed object current session path or historical session paths. Adaptive recommendations may also be generated in response to direct user requests or queries including search requests. Such user requests may be in the context of a current system navigation access or activity or may be outside of any such context and the recommended content sourced from one or more systems. The adaptive recommendations may comprise advertising or sponsored content. The adaptive recommendations may be delivered through any computer implemented means including but not limited to delivery modes in which the recommendation recipient can read and or listen to the recommendation .

In some embodiments the structural aspect of the adaptive system comprises a specific type of fuzzy network a fuzzy content network. A fuzzy content network is depicted in . The fuzzy content network may include multiple content sub networks as illustrated by the content sub networks and and fuzzy content network includes content data or information packaged in objects . Details about how the object works internally may be hidden. In for example the object includes meta information and information . The object thus encapsulates information .

Another benefit to organizing information as objects is known as inheritance. The encapsulation of for example may form discrete object classes with particular characteristics ascribed to each object class. A newly defined object class may inherit some of the characteristics of a parent class. Both encapsulation and inheritance enable a rich set of relationships between objects that may be effectively managed as the number of individual objects and associated object classes grows.

In the content network the objects may be either topic objects or content objects as depicted in respectively. Topic objects are encapsulations that contain meta information and relationships to other objects not shown but do not contain an embedded pointer to reference associated information. The topic object thus essentially operates as a label to a class of information. The topic object therefore just refers to itself and the network of relationships it has with other objects . People may be represented as topic objects or content objects in accordance with some embodiments.

Content objects as shown in are encapsulations that optionally contain meta information and relationships to other objects not shown . Additionally content objects may include either an embedded pointer to information or the information itself hereinafter information .

The referenced information may include files text documents articles images audio video multi media software applications and electronic or magnetic media or signals. Where the content object supplies a pointer to information the pointer may be a memory address. Where the content network encapsulates information on the Internet the pointer may be a Uniform Resource Locator URL .

The meta information supplies a summary or abstract of the object . So for example the meta information for the topic object may include a high level description of the topic being managed. Examples of meta information include a title a sub title one or more descriptions of the topic provided at different levels of detail the publisher of the topic meta information the date the topic object was created and subjective attributes such as the quality and attributes based on user feedback associated with the referenced information. Meta information may also include a pointer to referenced information such as a uniform resource locator URL in one embodiment.

The meta information for the content object may include relevant keywords associated with the information a summary of the information and so on. The meta information may supply a first look at the objects . The meta information may include a title a sub title a description of the information the author of the information the publisher of the information the publisher of the meta information and the date the content object was created as examples. As with the topic object meta information for the content object may also include a pointer.

In the content sub network is expanded such that both content objects and topic objects are visible. The various objects of the content network are interrelated by degrees using relationships unidirectional and bidirectional arrows and relationship indicators values . Each object may be related to any other object and may be related by a relationship indicator as shown. Thus while information is encapsulated in the objects the information is also interrelated to other information by a degree manifested by the relationship indicators .

The relationship indicator is a type of affinity comprising a value associated with a relationship the value typically comprising a numerical indicator of the relationship between objects . Thus for example the relationship indicator may be normalized to between 0 and 1 inclusive where 0 indicates no relationship and 1 indicates a subset or maximum relationship. Or the relationship indicators may be expressed using subjective descriptors that depict the quality of the relationship. For example subjective descriptors high medium and low may indicate a relationship between two objects .

The relationship between objects may be bi directional as indicated by the double pointing arrows. Each double pointing arrow includes two relationship indicators one for each direction of the relationships between the objects .

As indicates the relationships between any two objects need not be symmetrical. That is topic object has a relationship of 0.3 with content object while content object has a relationship of 0.5 with topic object . Furthermore the relationships need not be bi directional they may be in one direction only. This could be designated by a directed arrow or by simply setting one relationship indicator of a bi directional arrow to 0 the null relationship value.

The content networks A B C may be related to one another using relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators . For example in content sub network is related to content sub network and content sub network using relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators . Likewise content sub network is related to content sub network and content sub network using relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators .

Individual content and topic objects within a selected content sub network may be related to individual content and topic objects in another content sub network . Further multiple sets of relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators may be defined between two objects .

For example a first set of relationships and associated relationship indicators may be used for a first purpose or be available to a first set of users while a second set of relationships and associated relationship indicators may be used for a second purpose or available to a second set of users. For example in topic object is bi directionally related to topic object not once but twice as indicated by the two double arrows. An indefinite number of relationships and associated relationship indicators may therefore exist between any two objects in the fuzzy content network . The multiple relationships may correspond to distinct relationship types. For example a relationship type might be the degree an object supports the thesis of a second object while another relationship type might be the degree an object disconfirms the thesis of a second object . The content network may thus be customized for various purposes and accessible to different user groups in distinct ways simultaneously.

The relationships among objects in the content network as well as the relationships between content networks and may be modeled after fuzzy set theory. Each object for example may be considered a fuzzy set with respect to all other objects which are also considered fuzzy sets. The relationships among objects are the degrees to which each object belongs to the fuzzy set represented by any other object . Although not essential every object in the content network may conceivably have a relationship with every other object .

The topic objects may encompass and may be labels for very broad fuzzy sets of the content network . The topic objects thus may be labels for the fuzzy set and the fuzzy set may include relationships to other topic objects as well as related content objects . Content objects in contrast typically refer to a narrower domain of information in the content network .

The adaptive system of may operate in association with a fuzzy content network environment such as the one depicted in . In an adaptive system D includes a structural aspect D that is a fuzzy content network. Thus adaptive recommendations generated by the adaptive system D are also structural subsets that may themselves comprise fuzzy content networks.

In some embodiments a computer implemented fuzzy network or fuzzy content network may be represented in the form of vectors or matrices in a computer implemented system and where the vectors or matrices may be further represented by data structures such as relational databases. For example the relationship indicators or affinities among topics may be represented as topic to topic affinity vectors TTAV . The relationship indicators or affinities among content objects may be represented as content to content affinity vectors CCAV . The relationship indicators or affinities among content object and topic objects may be represented as content to topic affinity vectors CTAV which is also sometimes referred to an object to topic affinity vector OTAV herein.

Further affinity vectors between a user and objects of a fuzzy network or fuzzy content network may be generated. For example a member i.e. user to topic affinity vector MTAV may be generated in accordance with some embodiments and an exemplary process for generating an MTAV is provided elsewhere herein . In some embodiments an affinity vector MMAV between a specific user and other users may be generated derivatively from MTAVs and or other affinity vectors and an exemplary process for generating an MMAV is provided elsewhere herein . In some embodiments a member topic expertise vector MTEV is generated which is defined as a vector of inferred member or user expertise level values wherein each value corresponds to an expertise level corresponding to a topic.

One or more of object relationship mappings represented by TTAVs CCAVs CTAVs or OTAVs MTAVs or MTEVs may be the result of the behavioral indexing of a structural aspect that is not necessarily fuzzy network based in conjunction with a usage aspect and an adaptive recommendations function .

In some embodiments indexes generated from information within objects may be applied to populate an MTAV and or MTEV and or to modify an existing MTAV and or MTEV. Computer implemented algorithms may be applied to index objects such that for each object a vector or vectors comprising one or more constituent elements such as words phrases or concepts is generated along with a numerical weight or value corresponding to each constituent element wherein each of the corresponding weights is indicative of the inferred importance or relevance of each of the associated constituent elements with respect to the associated indexed object . By way of a non limiting example such a vector or vectors may be generated by a search engine function during the process of indexing the contents of an object . This vector of constituent elements and associated weights or values hereinafter called an object contents vector or OCV may be generated using pattern detection and or statistical techniques such as Bayesian analytic approaches and or or other statistical pattern matching and or statistical learning techniques as are known by those skilled in the art. For example word or phrase frequencies within an object comprising a document will typically influence the OCV as may the position of words or phrases within an object . These object contents indexing techniques may further apply more general linguistic data such as word and phrase frequencies for a given language synonym tables and or other lexicon based information in generating OCVs.

In some embodiments a system may track a user s behaviors including but not limited to the behaviors described by Table 1 and map them to the OCVs of a collection of objects . Constituent elements of the OCVs of objects that are inferred from the tracked behaviors to be of particular interest to one or more users or to have some other inferred quality of interest are then identified. These inferences may be based on the relative number of occurrences of constituent elements among objects that are inferred to be interest to a user as well as in accordance with the weights or values associated with these constituent elements and their associated OCVs. For example everything else being equal constituent elements or synonyms of OCVs that occur frequently among the objects that are inferred to be of high interest to a user and that have relatively high relevance weightings in the OCVs are favored for identification.

These one or more identified constituent elements may then be transformed via for example application of appropriate lexicon based information and techniques into or directly serve without transformation as topics with associated weights in the user s MTAV and or MTEV wherein the associated weights are calculated in accordance with the inferred degree of affinity between the user and the objects from which the associated OCVs are sourced. This process can be iteratively executed to continue to expand or refine the MTAV as additional or alternative sets of behaviors are applied OCVs of the same additional or different sets of object enabling continuously improved capabilities for personalization.

In some embodiments a multi dimensional mathematical construct or space may be generated based on one or more of the affinity vectors. By way of a non limiting example topics may represent each dimension of a multi dimensional space. Calculations of distances between objects and or users in the multi dimensional space and clusters among objects and or users may be determined by applying mathematical algorithms to the multi dimensional space and its elements. These calculations may be used by the adaptive system in generating recommendations and or in clustering elements of the space.

In some embodiments one or more topics and or relationship indicators may be generated automatically by evaluating candidate clusters of content objects based on behavioral information and or the matching of information within the content objects wherein the matching is performed for example through probabilistic statistical and or neural network techniques.

In some embodiments systems that include organizing structures or taxonomies other than non fuzzy networks may be beneficially transformed or converted to a fuzzy network to enable a greater capacity for adaptation while retaining contextual correspondences to the originating systems. Such a transformation is called a structural transformation herein and wherein the structural transformation is based on the processing of usage behavioral information the structural transformation represents a form of behavioral indexing. The resulting fuzzy taxonomy and adaptive contextualization may be applied to enhance user navigational experiences. The transformation may be performed in initializing the fuzzy network only or the transformation may be performed on a periodic or continuing basis. In some embodiments the fuzzy network may exist in parallel with the originating structure or structures. In other embodiments the fuzzy network may replace the originating non fuzzy network structure. In some embodiments the fuzzy network structure to which the non fuzzy structure is transformed comprises a fuzzy content network . Examples of originating non fuzzy network system structures include flat files hierarchical structures relational structures virtual views tagging structures and network structures in which the relationships between objects or items are not by degree. Structures employed by social networking collaborative systems and micro blogging systems may be transformed to a fuzzy network including originating structures that comprise a stream of activities as well as structures in which people have symmetric relationships e.g. friends colleagues or acquaintances or asymmetric relationships e.g. followers or fans .

In some embodiments the transformation process described herein may also or alternatively be applied to transform a first fuzzy network to a second fuzzy network whereby the second fuzzy network includes additional or alternative relationships among objects. This may be the case for example as when additional behavioral information is used to generate relationships in the second fuzzy network that have not been applied or have been applied differently in the first fuzzy network.

The process of transforming a non fuzzy network structure to a fuzzy structure may include mappings between elements of the non fuzzy network structure and the fuzzy network structure as well as rules for establishing and adjusting elements of the fuzzy network structure. The elements of the fuzzy network structure that is transformed include objects and relationships among the objects. The mappings and rules are collectively called a transformational protocol herein. The computer implemented function or functions that are invoked to perform the transformational protocol may apply user behavioral information that includes but is not limited to one or more behaviors corresponding to the usage behavioral categories listed in Table 1 herein.

An exemplary structural transformation and associated transformational protocol is illustrated by which depicts a first originating system and a second originating system being transformed by means of a transformation function into an adaptive system D. It should be understood that while depicts two originating systems being transformed a single originating system or more than two originating systems may be transformed.

Originating system A comprises a folder structure hierarchy and one or more views . These types of organizing structures may be similar to information organizing structures that are available for example in a Microsoft SharePoint system. Such organizing structures may include virtual views and or hierarchical structures comprising views and or folders which may be aligned with super structures such as libraries and sub sites with each view or folder potentially containing one or more files of content . Views are contrasted with folders in that views allow a specific file to be shared or commonly included across multiple views whereas a specific file can typically be allocated only to a single folder .

As illustrated in originating system B another type of non fuzzy organizing structure that may be transformed in some embodiments is a subject tagging structure in which files of content or most generally objects are tagged with one or more words or phrases corresponding to subjects or topics. These subjects may be selected by a user from an existing list of subject tags or they may be entered directly by a user. In some embodiments the subject tags may correspond to a pre defined structure such as a hierarchy in which a first subject tag may represent a parent subject and a second subject may represent a child of the parent subject. In other cases the subject tags may not have an explicit hierarchical structure. In some originating systems every content item or object may be required to have at least one subject tag in other originating systems some objects may be associated with one or more tags but others may not. It should be understood that the distribution and combinations of originating structures across one or more originating systems may be different than those depicted in .

In some embodiments a transformation protocol is applied by the transformation function to transform structures of one or more originating systems comprising views folders or subject tags as well as combinations thereof. Each of these types of structures can contribute beneficially complementary information in generating a fuzzy network structure. Although the transformation function is depicted outside the adaptive system D in in some embodiments the transformation function resides inside the adaptive system D. The transformation function accesses structural content and in some cases behavioral information not explicitly shown in the originating systems of from the one or more or originating systems . The transformation function uses this information from the originating systems to generate a fuzzy network structural aspect D and may provide usage behavior information from the originating systems to the usage aspect .

In accordance with some embodiments non limiting example cases of structural transformations are now described. The first conversion case to be described is the process for transforming two or more views to a fuzzy content network . In the first step the originating views are mapped to topics of the fuzzy content network and originating files are mapped to content objects . This mapping may include transferring meta data associated with the originating views and files to the corresponding objects in the fuzzy content network . The transferred or referenced meta data may include but is not limited to creator and create date information owner author and publisher information and user ratings and feedback. Such behavioral based information may be transferred to the usage aspect of the adaptive system D. In the second step relationship indicators are created among the topics that are converted from views in the fuzzy content network .

In some embodiments a metric based on the intersection divided by the union of files contained in two views of the originating structure is used to generate an affinity between the two corresponding topics in the fuzzy network. Accordingly in some embodiments the percentage of common files is calculated as the number of common files divided by the sum of the unique files in the two views. For example if there are 4 files in View Y and 4 files in View X and 2 of the files are in both View X and View Y then the percentage of common files is 2 6 33 . In some embodiments the percentage of common files metric may be adjusted based on the comparison of information contained in the common and or uncommon files in the two views. Behavioral information including but not limited to the behaviors of Table 1 may be used by the transformation function to adjust the affinity between the two corresponding topics

An exemplary establishment of bi directional relationship indicators between topics corresponding two views Y and X is illustrated by the following pseudo code 

It should be understood that in this example and other examples herein of the setting or adjusting of affinities and relationship indicators that the relationships indicators may be determined by continuous functions rather than as particular discrete settings as illustrated by the if then rules in the examples. Furthermore if discrete settings or adjustments are used they may be finer or coarser grained than the examples described herein.

In some embodiments the relationship indicators between content objects corresponding to originating files and topics corresponding to originating views may be set to a specified affinity e.g. 0.95 if the originating file is contained within the originating view . In some embodiments this affinity may be adjusted based on a comparison or matching of information in the file compared to information compared to other files contained in the view. Behavioral information including but not limited to the behaviors of Table 1 may be used by the affinity generation function to adjust the affinity between the content object and the topic

In some embodiments content object to content object relationship indicators are based on frequencies with which two corresponding files or items of content are both included within views in the originating structure . For example following is a non limiting example of such a frequency based method to determine affinities between two content objects

Then in some embodiments the expected percentage actual percentage and ratio of actual to expected percentage of view coincidences of x and y are calculated as follows Expected Actual total number of views Actual Expected Coincidences Ratio Actual Expected 

The Actual Expected Coincidences Ratio AECR metric ranges from 0 to infinity. An AECR 1 is indicative of the two content items having a greater than random affinity and the higher the AECR the greater the inferred affinity. An exemplary setting of reciprocal relationship indicators between content object x and content object y by the transformation function is as follows 

In some embodiments variations of the AECR metric may be generated and applied to establish object to object relationship indicators. For example binomial type probabilities may be computed to determine expected co occurrences of objects within views under randomization assumptions for comparison against the actual distribution of co occurrences. Or penalty functions with regard the proportion of non co occurrences versus co occurrences of a pair of objects within a view may be taken into account and the AECR adjusted accordingly.

In some embodiments adjustments may be made to the content object object to content object relationship indicators by taking into account additional information about the originating files. For example if two files have the same creator or owner it may be suggestive of a stronger than average affinity between the two files everything being equal. So as a non limiting example a rule of the type if File Y and File X have the same creator and the relationship indicator between them is 

In some embodiments timing considerations may also influence the assigned relationship indicators . The closer the creation dates of two files the stronger may be their inferred affinity everything else being equal. So in some embodiments a rule of the type if the difference in create date between File Y and File X is greater than a certain amount of time and the relationship indicator between them is 0.2 then decrease the relationship indicator by 0.2 may be applied during the conversion process.

In some embodiments folder structures may be transformed to a fuzzy content network and meta data associated with the originating folders and files may be included in the transformation. In some embodiments the first step is to create relationship indicators among topics in the fuzzy content network such that the topics correspond to folders and or other superstructures such as sub sites if desired . In some embodiments the basic transformational protocol that is applied is based upon the topology of the structure. For example an exemplary topology based assumption is that topics converted from folders in the originating structure that are closer to one another within a hierarchy should be assigned stronger relationships in the fuzzy content network everything else being equal. The closest relationship within a hierarchy is typically the parent child relationship. Reciprocal relationships indicators between topics in the transformed structure D may not necessarily be symmetric. Following is exemplary pseudo code for parent child conversions by the transformation function of hierarchical structures according to some embodiments 

Next in some embodiments topics corresponding to sibling cousin folders may be assigned relationship indicators . Following is exemplary pseudo code in accordance with some embodiments 

Relationship indicators between other object relatives within the hierarchy such as uncles nephews second cousins third cousins and so on can be generated in a similar manner. In some embodiments timing considerations may be applied to adjust the relationship indicators that are determined from the topology of the originating system structure. For example a rule of the type such as If the difference in the create date between Folder Y and Folder X is greater than a certain amount of time and the relationship indicator is 0.2 then decrease the relationship indicator by 0.2 may be applied.

The next step in some embodiments is to assign the content object to topic relationship indicators starting with folder hierarchy parent child transformations as exemplified by the following pseudo code 

In some embodiments additional considerations such as timing may be applied to adjust these relationship indicators. For example a rule such as If the difference in the create date between File Y and Folder X is greater than a certain amount of time and the relationship indicator between the corresponding objects is 0.2 then decrease the relationship indicator by 0.2 may be applied.

Next in some embodiments the content object to content object relationship indicators may be established for sibling and cousin folders and similarly for more distant relatives as exemplified by the following pseudo code 

In some embodiments adjustment factors such as timing may be applied to these topological based relationship indicators . An exemplary rule is If the difference in the create date between File Y and File X is greater than a certain amount of time and the relationship indicators between them are 0.2 then decrease the relationship indicators by 0.2. 

In originating environments with both view and folder structures in some embodiments the previous exemplary conversion processes for views only and folders only environments may be applied with some additional adjustments to handle the cases of relationships between views and folders and for the refinement of other object to object relationships.

In some embodiments for topic to topic relationships the view to view relationship logic is extended to handle this mixed case as illustrated by the following exemplary pseudo code 

In some embodiments in generating content object to content object relationship indicators the view only case is extended to also include the case in which two files are contained in the same folder and also in one or more views . Following is exemplary pseudo code for this case 

In some embodiments additional considerations such as the creator of a pair of files or the difference in creation data of the pair of files may be applied to adjust these relationship indicators. For example a creator based rule such as If File Y and File X have the same creator and the relationship indicator between them is 0.2 then decrease the relationship indicator by 0.2. 

In some embodiments content object to content object and or topic to topic relationship indicators may be established or adjusted based on temporal clustering analysis. For example files that are accessed by a specific user or a group of users within a prescribed period of time may suggest a greater than average affinity among the files everything else being equal. Common clusters of files among multiple users are even more indicative of a greater than average affinity among the files. The clustering analysis may further beneficially take into account the overall frequency of for example accesses of the files. Where infrequently accessed files are found temporally clustered the affinities among the files may be inferred to be greater than average. The results of the access clustering analysis may provide the basis for the magnitude of relationship indicators among corresponding content objects . It should be understood that while the term accesses has been used in describing examples of this clustering analysis temporal clustering analyses of one or more users may be conducted with regard to any of the and combinations thereof behaviors and corresponding behavioral categories of Table 1.

Other methods and factors may be applied to assign or adjust the relationship indicators among topics and content objects that have been converted from systems that have hierarchical and or view structures. These methods include statistical comparison and or pattern matching semantic analysis and or other mathematical and or machine learning techniques applied to the information within the files. In addition or alternatively inferences used to assign or adjust relationship indicators may be made from available meta data that is associated with originating files folders and or views. Available meta data may include but is not limited to author owner publisher information reviews and commentaries taxonomies whether explicitly specified or implicitly deduced by a system and tags or other descriptive information.

As one example in some embodiments tags generated or selected by a user a reference behavior in accordance with Table 1 associated with content objects may be used to determine affinities among content objects and or topics . For example content objects with a higher than average or expected proportion of common tags may be considered to have a higher than average affinity everything else being equal. This calculation may be adjusted basis the overall frequency of the population of tags such that the commonality of less frequently used tags is given more weight in calculating affinities than more frequently used tags.

In some environments content tags may correspond to pre determined subjects or topical areas. These subjects may be organized in a taxonomy and the structure of the taxonomy may be hierarchical as depicted within originating system B of .

In accordance with some embodiments following is an exemplary transformational protocol applied by the transformation function for converting such taxonomies to a fuzzy network structure D. In this non limiting example it is assumed the taxonomy of subjects is hierarchical and each item of content is associated with one or more tags that correspond to one or more subjects.

First similar to the approach described in transforming views topic to topic affinities can be determined basis a metric derived from the intersection divided by union of content between a pair of subjects. For example this metric may be basis the proportion of common content between two subjects which according to some embodiments is defined as the number of common content items divided by the total number of unique content items included in the two subjects. So for example if Subject Y contains content items C C C and Subject X contains content items C C C C then the percentage of common content 40 .

In some embodiments this percentage can then be adjusted by a scaling factor that is proportional to the total number of subjects since if there are only a few subjects then having a high percentage of common content between a given subject pair is less revealing about the actual affinities between the pair of subjects than if there is a larger population of subjects.

An exemplary scaling formula that can be applied that takes into account the size of subject population is Subject Scaling Factor 1 exp constant number of subjects .

For example if the constant equals 0.05 this factor will range from 0 when there are no subjects to 1 as the number of subjects goes to infinity and will be very close to 1 when there are around 100 subjects.

An exemplary metric that can then be applied to set or adjust affinities between subjects is Adjusted Common Content Subject Scaling Factor common content.

A non limiting example of relationship indicator settings or adjustments using the Adjusted Common Content metric is as follows 

In some embodiments to generate content to content relationships from these types of originating subject taxonomy structures the first step is to map the relationships between content and subjects of the originating subject taxonomy as illustrated in the example of Table A.

Although a simple percentage of common subjects may be applied to establish or adjust affinities among content items better results will generally be achieved by generating a metric that has properties that include the following characteristics 

In some embodiments a method to generate such a metric includes a first step of determining the frequency and relative frequency of the subjects across all items of content that are addressed by the originating subject taxonomy. Using the example from Table A the frequency and relative frequency results are determined as illustrated in Table B.

In some embodiments the next step is generating a metric RFU RFC that is applied to determine the strength of affinity between two content items where 

The metric RFU RFC which can be called the Subject Frequency Ratio SFR ranges from 0 to infinity with higher levels of SFR being indicative of higher affinities between the two content items. A non limiting example of the setting of affinities between content items using SFR is as follows 

In some embodiments functions that generate content to topic relationships from these types of originating subject taxonomy structures may employ a variation of the technique that was described to generate the content to content affinities from these types of structures. For example the generation of a metric with the following characteristics may be desirable 

In some embodiments a metric RFO RFT having these characteristics is generated and is used in determining the strength of affinity between a content item Cx item and a target subject St . RFO and RFT are defined as 

The metric RFO RFT which can be called the Content Subject Frequency Ratio CSFR ranges from 0 to infinity with higher levels being indicative of a higher affinity between a content item and a particular subject. A non limiting example of using the CSFR to set the affinities between corresponding content objects and topic objects is as follows 

In some embodiments multiple originating systems and or structures associated with one or more computer implemented systems may be transformed into an integrated fuzzy network. This approach beneficially creates an underlying integrated contextualization of the multiple systems and originating structures which can enhance user navigation including providing for content and expertise discovery. Usage behavior and topological synergies between two originating systems can enable a better contextualization than with one originating system and associated originating structure alone.

In some embodiments a function that integrates recommendations sourced from multiple systems based on the contextualization of an integrated fuzzy network may be invoked by a user or administrator. In some embodiments the user or administrator may be able to select and de select the originating systems from which recommended content or people are sourced. This selection interface may be available through one of the originating systems multiple of the originating systems and or through a separate interface to the fuzzy network based contextualization of adaptive system D.

In some embodiments when a user has selected that he wants a recommendation of content sourced from a first originating system while interacting with or navigating within a second originating system s interface the integrated contextualization is preferentially required to understand the appropriate topical neighborhood within the first originating system to serve as a basis for a recommendation and or a contextual scope for the recommendation. In other words a simulation of the user navigating the first originating system is performed while the user is actually within the second originating system s environment and navigational context.

To perform this contextual simulation in accordance with some embodiments a relation between a user conducted activity in the second originating system such as contributing an item of content or posting an activity is made with respect to an object in the first system . In some embodiments subjects in the second system may be associated with content in the first system through the saving or referencing of an object in the first system while the user interacts with the second system . For example an attachment to or a link or pointer such as an URL or URI within a post in the second system may be saved to or reference an object in the first system .

In the following non limiting example of this integration it is assumed originating system A has a folder based structure and originating system B has a subject taxonomy structure. It should be understood however that different structures may be distributed among two or more originating systems than is assumed in this specific example. Table A1 represents an exemplary mapping of content and subjects in originating system B 

Then as a non limiting example it is assumed in this example that the one or more items of content originating from system is stored in folders of system . It follows that there may be one or more instances of content items associated with each folder. The folders can then be mapped to subjects as shown in the exemplary mapping of Table C.

The occurrences of subjects can be summed across folder instances for each folder as illustrated in Table D.

In some embodiments these types of mappings can be applied by a method to determine a simulated navigation context within system while the user is interacting with system . For example in the case considered here an appropriate context in system can be determined when one or more subjects are specified in system .

For example a metric the Frequency Weighted Subject Occurrences FWSO can be defined as the sum across all of the specified subjects of the number of occurrences of each subject 1 relative frequency of each subject for a given folder. For example from the data of tables B and D for the specified subjects of S and S the FWSO of folder F is FWSO 1 1 3 2 1 5 14 1 1 3 14 

If there exist no folders in which FWSO 0 for the specified subjects then there may not be sufficient context to generate in context recommendation from content items sourced from originating system A. Otherwise sufficient context is available for in context recommendations. A similar approach to calculating FWSOs but with respect to view based structures rather than folder based structures or mixed folder and view based structures and be applied in accordance with some embodiments.

Following are some exemplary methods for generating in context recommendations from system A given specified subjects of system B . In some embodiments in generating a system A expertise people recommendation based on a system B content contribution associated with a specified set of subjects the system A folder taken as the contextual basis is the folder with the maximum FWSO for the specified subjects. If there is a tie it can be broken for example by selecting among the tied folders the one with the user s highest MTAV value.

For knowledge discovery content recommendations it is preferred to select or otherwise indicate a specific content item in system A to be the contextual basis for the in context recommendation sourced from system A. In some embodiments this can be achieved by selecting the system A content item with the highest Subject Frequency Ratio SFR calculated with respect to the specified subjects. In other words the SFR is calculated basis the subjects of each content item of system A and the specified subjects. If there is a resulting tie among other possibilities the content item among the tied candidate content items within a folder with the highest FWSO can be selected. If there is still more than one candidate content item among other tie breaking possibilities the most popular can be selected.

In addition to delivering cross contextualization of multiple originating systems the mappings between two originating systems may enable the adjusting of affinities of the fuzzy network resulting from the transformation by the transformation function of a first originating system basis information accessed from a second originating system .

In some embodiments the data of Table D is applied to adjust affinities between topics that correspond to folders in the originating system . For example metrics of similarity may be applied for each pair of folders against subject data of the type illustrated in Table D. The folder similarity metric may be calculated using a cosine similarity formula correlation coefficient formula or any other suitable formula for comparing the similarity of two vectors. The following non limiting pseudo code example illustrates the use of a correlation coefficient to adjust the topic to topic affinities that correspond to originating folders

In some embodiments the SFR can be calculated for content items originating from originating system A basis subjects or subject tags applied in originating system B which can then be used to adjust the affinities of between content items accordingly. In some embodiments the SFR adjustments over ride previous content object to content object affinities per the following exemplary pseudo code 

In some embodiments content to topic affinities in a fuzzy network generated from structures within a first system are adjusted basis information originating in a second system . As one non limiting example a vector of CSFRs is generated by calculating for the target content item a CFSR with respect to each of the content item s associated subjects and the CFSR value is set to zero for all other subjects that are not associate with the content item . Then a similarity metric is generated between this vector of CSFRs of the target content and the vector of subject occurrences Table D for the target folder. The similarity metric may be calculated for example by using a cosine similarity formula correlation coefficient formula or any other suitable formula for comparing the similarity of two vectors. Exemplary pseudo code for adjusting the affinities between a target content item Cx and a folder Fy is as follows 

For integrated contextualizations of multiple originating structures candidate recommendations may be generated from multiple source system structures. In some embodiments a candidate recommendation score harmonization function enables direct comparisons of the scores associated with candidate recommended items from multiple source systems. The top scored candidate items are then selected for delivery to the recommendation recipient regardless of the system source of the candidate items.

In some embodiments the originating systems or structures to be transformed may not have structural constructs that enable a one to one correspondence with topics in the transformed structure. In such cases one or more topics and or relationship indicators may be generated automatically by evaluating candidate clusters of content objects based on behavioral information and or statistical pattern matching of information within the content objects . In some cases this clustering may be based on automatic inferences informed by hashtags or other organizing indicia embedded within the content objects

In some embodiments various system functions and interfaces e.g. SharePoint web parts may be applied that provide selective functionalities of adaptive system D. These functionalities in conjunction with the structural aspect D may be collectively called a learning layer in some embodiments. The computer implemented functions knowledge discovery and expertise discovery refer to specific learning layer functions that generate content recommendations and people recommendations respectively. In some embodiments the fuzzy content network may be hidden from the user in other embodiments it may be transparent to the users . Other functions may be included in the learning layer such as enabling visualizations of affinities among topics content and users functions to directly interact with the fuzzy content network administrative functions to facilitate installation and tuning of other learning layer functions and functions that serve to capture additional behavioral information that would not be otherwise captured in accordance with but not limited to the behaviors and behavioral categories of Table 1.

In some embodiments learning layer functions can be accessed by other systems through an application programming interface API comprising standardized programming protocols. The API may include protocols for both receiving information from the learning layer and or for delivering information to the learning layer.

In some embodiments the object at which the user is currently navigating may be related to another object C in the second originating system basis an explicit relationship or correspondence established by a user . For example the second object C may be an attachment object to the first object and the attachment object C may not necessarily be stored in the originating system being navigated. In some embodiments the contextual correspondence between the two objects C may be established through automated means such as through the comparison of the contents of objects for example through generation and comparison of OCVs rather than or in addition to explicit user establishment of the correspondence.

The contextually equivalent object D in the learning layer D to the navigated object in the first originating system may correspond indirectly to the navigated object by way of the related object C in the second originating system in accordance with some embodiments.

In some embodiments an administrator or user may select one or more originating systems to be the source of objects recommended by the learning layer D. So for example if the user chose to have recommendations of objects sourced only from the second system while navigating the first system then the contextually corresponding object C would be used as the contextual basis D in the learning layer D and recommended objects would be limited to only those originating in the second system.

In such selectable recommendation sourcing embodiments the candidate recommendation score harmonization function may be applied to enable direct comparisons of the scores associated with candidate recommended items from the multiple source systems selected by the user or an administrator. The top scored candidate objects are then selected for delivery to the recommendation recipient regardless of the system source of the candidate objects given that the system sources have been selected by the user or administrator.

In some embodiments standardized tags may be applied to the topics within or sourced from one or more originating systems so as to create a standardized member topic affinity vector MTAV for a specific user and that can be standardized across multiple users based on the tags. The adaptive system D generates a standardized MTAV derivatively from each originating MTAV from the tags that are mapped to topics of the originating MTAV. In some embodiments not every originating topic has a standardized tag applied in this case the function that generates the standardized MTAV may ignore the originating topic without a standardized tag. Since in some cases the number of different topics may exceed the number of applicable standardized tags some topics may have the same standardized tag. In these cases the standardized MTAV generation function will create a composite standardized MTAV value based on the multiple affinity values of the originating MTAVs. The standardized MTAV will be of a dimension equal to the number of standardized tags.

To summarize an exemplary process the folders views and or subjects of one or more originating systems have standardized tags applied. The folders views and or subjects of the one or more originating systems are transformed to topics and behavioral information from the one or more originating systems are used to generate originating system specific MTAVs. The standardized tags associated with the folders views and or subjects of the one or more originating systems are then used to create a standardized composite MTAV that is a vector of affinity values corresponding to each of the standardized tags.

The standardized MTAV can be beneficially used to harmonize the encoding of interests preferences and most generally learning from the one or more originating systems and or one or more adaptive systems D. By establishing a direct correspondence between originating MTAVs this approach of generating a standardized MTAV has the benefit of enabling portability of a user s interests from one system to another enabling the integration of the user s interests from multiple originating systems and enabling consistent comparisons of interest profiles across users. These standardized portable MTAVs can then be used to generate member to member affinity vectors MMAVs that are indicative of interest similarities among users across different originating systems even if the users are not all users of exactly the same originating systems.

Similar to the process described for MTAVs in some embodiments standardized tags can be applied in the generation of member topic expertise vectors MTEVs . Rather than interest portability across different originating systems expertise portability across different originating systems is enabled by standardized MTEVs.

In some embodiments the standardized tags are applied by humans in other embodiments the tags may be generated and or applied by automated means for example through the evaluation of the contents of the associated topics and related content.

A recommendation context function comprises an object context function that may include a representation of context by for example a CCAV that is generated by a behavioral indexing process and or the object context may be derived from an object contents vector OCV that may be generated by for example a search indexing process. Alternatively if the object context is the physical user herself her context may be represented by an MTAV or other type of vector that describes affinity levels between the user and other objects including other physical objects including other people.

If the object context function has access to a CCAV or alternatively a CTAV associated with a base object then the CCAV or CTAV can be applied to determine an appropriate contextual neighborhood for the in context recommendations function with regard to objects that have been behaviorally indexed based on an evaluation of the associated degrees of affinity.

If the object context function has access to an OCV associated with a base object then this base OCV can be applied to select candidate objects for recommendation from objects that have been had their contents indexed . In this case the base OCV is compared to OCVs of target objects that have been contents indexed . Evaluating the comparisons between the base OCV and the targeted OCVs preferentially takes into account the number of occurrences of common constituent elements or synonyms between the base OCV and each of the targeted OCVs as well as the associated the weights or values associated with the common constituent elements of the base OCV and each of the targeted OCVs. Affinities determined by the object context function and the contents indexed objects are generated basis these OCV based comparisons and these affinities collectively serve as a contextual neighborhood for the in context recommendations function

In cases in which the object context function includes both a CCAV or CTAV and OCV and both behaviorally indexed and contents indexed source objects are available an affinity harmonization process may be performed to generate an appropriate contextual neighborhood. This may result in objects in the contextual neighborhood that are solely derived from the CCA or CTA solely derived from the OCV comparisons or from both and the associated affinities between the base object and other objects in the contextual neighborhood may be derived from either the CCA or the OCV comparisons or may have an affinity value influenced by both the CCA and OCV comparisons.

In some embodiments the in context recommendation function then applies a personalization step through application of a personalization function with respect to the objects in the resulting contextual neighborhood. This personalization may be performed by comparing the user s MTAV and or MTEV to the CTAV of the objects in the contextual neighborhood. In some embodiments associated CTAVs are only available for objects associated with behaviorally indexed sources . In some embodiments CTAVs are also available for objects sourced from system sources that have not been behaviorally indexed but have been contents indexed . In this case the CTAVS may be derived from OCVs by automatically determining topics through a statistical analysis of the OCVs. As a simple non limiting example if a cluster of OCVs with common words or phrases with relatively high weights is identified then the words or phrases or synonyms thereof may be identified as one or more topics. The relative affinities of the objects to the one or more topics based on the each object s OCV can then be calculated. The result is an OCV derived CTAV that can be compared to the user s MTAV and or MTEV facilitated by appropriate glossary or lexicon based mappings as required so as to beneficially apply a personalization filter to the candidate objects in the contextual neighborhood.

In addition to or instead of the personalization step various object quality filtering methods may be performed by the in context recommendations function on the objects in the contextual neighborhood. These quality evaluations are described in more detail elsewhere herein and may be based on object attributes such as recency of publication or behavioral information such as user s ratings for example

Candidate objects for out of context recommendations may be sourced from behaviorally indexed objects . In this case the user s MTAV can be used to compare against the CTAV of the behaviorally indexed objects using mathematical techniques known to those skilled in the art that determine the mathematical distance between vectors and a subset of behaviorally indexed objects that have CTAVs with the shortest distance from the MTAV or basis the user s MTEV are identified. This personalized subset of the behaviorally indexed objects may then be filtered through object specific quality filtering to yield one or more objects that are recommended to the user .

Candidate objects for out of context recommendations may also or alternatively be sourced from contents indexed objects . In this case the user s MTAV or MTEV can be converted to an OCV format and this synthetic MTAV derived base OCV can be used to compare against the OCVs of the context indexed objects in a manner as has been previously described herein. A subset of the contents indexed objects which have OCVs that are closest in terms of mathematically defined distance to the MTAV derived OCV is selected. This personalized subset of the contents indexed objects may then if it has not already been performed be filtered through object specific quality filtering to yield one or more objects that are recommended to the user .

In cases in which candidate objects for out of context recommendations are sourced from both behaviorally indexed and contents indexed objects the resulting recommendations delivered to the user may include objects from one or both types of sources.

The relevant recommendations function then returns one or more recommendations to the recommendation receipt function via the learning layer API . The recommendations receipt function may then deliver the recommendations to the user .

For any of the cases described by controls may be provided for a recommendation recipient or administrator to specify whether recommended objects are sourced from only behaviorally indexed source objects only contents indexed source objects or both.

Memberships in the communities are not necessarily mutually exclusive as depicted by the overlaps of the sub community A usage patterns sub community B usage patterns and sub community C usage patterns as well as and the individual usage patterns in the usage framework . Recall that a community may include a single user or multiple users. Sub communities may likewise include one or more users. Thus the individual usage patterns in may also be described as representing the usage patterns of a community or a sub community. For the one or more computer based systems usage behavior patterns may be segmented among communities and individuals so as to effectively enable adaptive communications delivery for each sub community or individual.

The communities identified by the one or more computer based systems may be determined through self selection through explicit designation by other users or external administrators e.g. designation of certain users as experts or through automatic determination by the one or more computer based systems . The communities themselves may have relationships between each other of multiple types and values. In addition a community may be composed not of human users or solely of human users but instead may include one or more other computer based systems which may have reason to interact with the one or more computer based systems . Or such computer based systems may provide an input into the one or more computer based systems such as by being the output from a search engine. The interacting computer based system may be another instance of the one or more computer based systems .

The usage behaviors included in Table 1 may be categorized by the one or more computer based systems according to the usage framework of . For example categories of usage behavior may be captured and categorized according to the entire community usage patterns sub community usage patterns and individual usage patterns . The corresponding usage behavior information may be used to infer preferences and or intentions and interests at each of the user levels.

Multiple usage behavior categories shown in Table 1 may be used by the one or more computer based systems to make reliable inferences of the preferences and or intentions and or intentions of a user with regard to elements objects or items of content associated with the one or more computer based systems . There are likely to be different preference inferencing results for different users.

As shown in the one or more computer based systems delivers adaptive communications to the user . These adaptive communications may include adaptive recommendations and or associated explanations for the recommendations or may be other types of communications to the user including advertising. In some embodiments the adaptive communications comprise one or more phrases where phrases comprise one or more words. The adaptive communications may be delivered to the user in a written form an audio form or a combination of these forms.

By introducing different or additional behavioral characteristics such as the duration of access of or monitored or inferred attention toward an object a more adaptive communication is enabled. For example duration of access or attention will generally be much less correlated with navigational proximity than access sequences will be and therefore provide a better indicator of true user preferences and or intentions and or intentions. Therefore combining access sequences and access duration will generally provide better inferences and associated system structural updates than using either usage behavior alone. Effectively utilizing additional usage behaviors as described above will generally enable increasingly effective system structural updating. In addition the one or more computer based systems may employ user affinity groups to enable even more effective system structural updating than are available merely by applying either individual personal usage behaviors or entire community usage behaviors.

Furthermore relying on only one or a limited set of usage behavioral cues and signals may more easily enable potential spoofing or gaming of the one or more computer based systems . Spoofing or gaming the one or more computer based systems refers to conducting consciously insincere or otherwise intentional usage behaviors so as to influence the costs of advertisements of the one or more computer based systems . Utilizing broader sets of system usage behavioral cues and signals may lessen the effects of spoofing or gaming. One or more algorithms may be employed by the one or more computer based systems to detect such contrived usage behaviors and when detected such behaviors may be compensated for by the preference and interest inferencing algorithms of the one or more computer based systems .

In some embodiments the one or more computer based systems may provide users with a means to limit the tracking storing or application of their usage behaviors . A variety of limitation variables may be selected by the user . For example a user may be able to limit usage behavior tracking storing or application by usage behavior category described in Table 1. Alternatively or in addition the selected limitation may be specified to apply only to particular user communities or individual users . For example a user may restrict the application of the full set of her usage behaviors to preference or interest inferences by one or more computer based systems for application to only herself and make a subset of process behaviors available for application to users only within her workgroup but allow none of her process usage behaviors to be applied by the one or more computer based systems in making inferences of preferences and or intentions and or intentions or interests for other users.

As described above a user associated with one or more systems may be a member of one or more communities of interest or affinity groups with a potentially varying degree of affinity associated with the respective communities. These affinities may change over time as interests of the user and communities evolve over time. The affinities or relationships among users and communities may be categorized into specific types. An identified user may be considered a member of a special sub community containing only one member the member being the identified user. A user can therefore be thought of as just a specific case of the more general notion of user or user segments communities or affinity groups.

Sub community B is a community that has many relationships or affinities to other communities. These relationships may be of different types and differing degrees of relevance or affinity. For example a first relationship between sub community B and sub community D may be of one type and a second relationship may be of a second type. In the first relationship is depicted using a double pointing arrow while the second relationship is depicted using a unidirectional arrow. 

The relationships and may be directionally distinct and may have an indicator of relationship or affinity associated with each distinct direction of affinity or relationship. For example the first relationship has a numerical value or relationship value of 0.8. The relationship value thus describes the first relationship between sub community B and sub community D as having a value of 0.8.

The relationship value may be scaled as in e.g. between 0 and 1 or may be scaled according to another interval. The relationship values may also be bounded or unbounded or they may be symbolically represented e.g. high medium low .

The user which could be considered a user community including a single member may also have a number of relationships to other communities where these relationships are of different types directions and relevance. From the perspective of the user these relationship types may take many different forms. Some relationships may be automatically formed by the one or more computer based systems for example based on explicit or inferred interests geographic location or similar traffic usage patterns. Thus for example the entire community may include users in a particular city. Some relationships may be context relative. For example a community to which the user has a relationship could be associated with a certain process and another community could be related to another process. Thus sub community E may be the users associated with a product development business to which the user has a relationship sub community B may be the members of a cross business innovation process to which the user has a relationship sub community D may be experts in a specific domain of product development to which the user has a relationship . The generation of new communities which include the user may be based on the inferred interests of the user or other users within the entire community .

Membership of communities may overlap as indicated by sub communities A and C . The overlap may result when one community is wholly a subset of another community such as between the entire community and sub community B . More generally a community overlap will occur whenever two or more communities contain at least one user or user in common. Such community subsets may be formed automatically by the one or more systems based on preference interest or expertise inferencing from user behaviors . For example a subset of a community may be formed based on an inference of increased interest or demand of particular content or expertise of an associated community. The one or more computer based systems are also capable of inferring that a new community is appropriate. The one or more computer based systems will thus create the new community automatically.

For each user whether residing within say sub community A or residing outside the community such as the user the relationships such as arrows or affinities or relationship values such as numerical indicator and directions of arrows are unique. Accordingly some relationships and specific types of relationships between communities may be unique to each user. Other relationships affinities values and directions may have more general aspects or references that are shared among many users or among all users of the one or more computer based systems . A distinct and unique mapping of relationships between users such as is illustrated in could thus be produced for each user by the one or more computer based systems .

The one or more computer based systems may automatically generate communities or affinity groups based on user behaviors and associated preference inferences. In addition communities may be identified by users such as administrators of the process or sub process instance . Thus the one or more computer based systems utilizes automatically generated and manually generated communities.

The communities affinity groups or user segments aid the one or more computer based systems in matching interests optimally developing learning groups prototyping process designs before adaptation and many other uses. For example some users that use or interact with the one or more computer based systems may receive a preview of a new adaptation of a process for testing and fine tuning prior to other users receiving this change.

Users or communities may be explicitly represented as elements or objects within the one or more computer based systems . An object representing a user may include self profiling information that is explicitly provided by the user . This user descriptive information may include but are not limited to for example a photo or avatar relationships to other people subjects of interest and affiliations.

The usage behavior information and inferences function of the one or more computer based systems is depicted in the block diagram of . In embodiments where computer based systems is an adaptive system then usage behavior information and inferences function is equivalent to the usage aspect of . The usage behavior information and inferences function denotes captured usage information further identified as usage behaviors and usage behavior pre processing . The usage behavior information and inferences function thus reflects the tracking storing classification categorization and clustering of the use and associated usage behaviors of the one or more users or users interacting with the one or more computer based systems .

The captured usage information known also as system usage or system use includes any interaction by the one or more users or users with the system or monitored behavior by the one or more users . The one or more computer based systems may track and store user key strokes and mouse clicks or other device controller information for example as well as the time period in which these interactions occurred e.g. timestamps as captured usage information . From this captured usage information the one or more computer based systems identifies usage behaviors of the one or more users e.g. web page access or physical location changes of the user . Finally the usage behavior information and inferences function includes usage behavior pre processing in which usage behavior categories usage behavior clusters and usage behavioral patterns are formulated for subsequent processing of the usage behaviors by the one or more computer based systems . Some usage behaviors identified by the one or more computer based systems as well as usage behavior categories designated by the one or more computer based systems are listed in Table 1 and are described in more detail below.

The usage behavior categories usage behaviors clusters and usage behavior patterns may be interpreted with respect to a single user or to multiple users in which the multiple users may be described herein as a community an affinity group or a user segment. These terms are used interchangeably herein. A community is a collection of one or more users and may include what is commonly referred to as a community of interest. A sub community is also a collection of one or more users in which members of the sub community include a portion of the users in a previously defined community. Communities affinity groups and user segments are described in more detail below.

Usage behavior categories include types of usage behaviors such as accesses referrals to other users collaboration with other users and so on. These categories and more are included in Table 1. Usage behavior clusters are groupings of one or more usage behaviors either within a particular usage behavior category or across two or more usage categories. The usage behavior pre processing may also determine new clusterings of user behaviors in previously undefined usage behavior categories across categories or among new communities. Usage behavior patterns also known as usage behavioral patterns or behavioral patterns are also groupings of usage behaviors across usage behavior categories . Usage behavior patterns are generated from one or more filtered clusters of captured usage information .

The usage behavior patterns may also capture and organize captured usage information to retain temporal information associated with usage behaviors . Such temporal information may include the duration or timing of the usage behaviors such as those associated with reading or writing of written or graphical material oral communications including listening and talking or physical location of the user potentially including environmental aspects of the physical location s . The usage behavioral patterns may include segmentations and categorizations of usage behaviors corresponding to a single user of the one or more users or according to multiple users e.g. communities or affinity groups . The communities or affinity groups may be previously established or may be generated during usage behavior pre processing based on inferred usage behavior affinities or clustering.

In Table 1 a variety of different user behaviors are identified that may be assessed by the one or more computer based systems and categorized. The usage behaviors may be associated with the entire community of users one or more sub communities or with individual users of the one of more computer based applications .

A first category of process usage behaviors is known as system navigation and access behaviors. System navigation and access behaviors include usage behaviors such as accesses to and interactions with computer based applications and content such as documents Web pages images videos TV channels audio radio channels multi media interactive content interactive computer applications and games e commerce applications or any other type of information item or system object. These process usage behaviors may be conducted through use of a keyboard a mouse oral commands or using any other input device. Usage behaviors in the system navigation and access behaviors category may include but are not limited to the viewing scrolling through or reading of displayed information typing written information interacting with online objects orally or combinations of these forms of interactions with computer based applications. This category includes the explicit searching for information using for example a search engine. The search term may be in the form of a word or phrase to be matched against documents pictures web pages or any other form of on line content. Alternatively the search term may be posed as a question by the user.

System navigation and access behaviors may also include executing transactions including commercial transactions such as the buying or selling of merchandise services or financial instruments. System navigation and access behaviors may include not only individual accesses and interactions but the capture and categorization of sequences of information or system object accesses and interactions over time.

A second category of usage behaviors is known as subscription and self profiling behaviors. Subscriptions may be associated with specific topical areas or other elements of the one or more computer based systems or may be associated with any other subset of the one or more computer based systems . Following is another term that may be used for a subscription behavior i.e. following a topic is synonymous with subscribing to a topic. Subscriptions or following behaviors may also be with regard to other users the subscriber or follower receives activity streams of the subscribed to or followed user. A user s following behavior is distinguished from a linking behavior with regard to another user in that a following relationship is asymmetric while a linking e.g. friending relationship is typically symmetric and hence linking is considered in the collaborative behavior category herein . Subscriptions may thus indicate the intensity of interest with regard to elements of the one or more computer based systems . The delivery of information to fulfill subscriptions may occur online such as through activity streams electronic mail email on line newsletters XML or RSS feeds etc. or through physical delivery of media.

Self profiling refers to other direct persistent unless explicitly changed by the user indications explicitly designated by the one or more users regarding their preferences and or intentions and interests or other meaningful attributes. A user may explicitly identify interests or affiliations such as job function profession or organization and preferences and or intentions such as representative skill level e.g. novice business user advanced . Self profiling enables the one or more computer based systems to infer explicit preferences and or intentions of the user. For example a self profile may contain information on skill levels or relative proficiency in a subject area organizational affiliation or a position held in an organization. A user that is in the role or potential role of a supplier or customer may provide relevant context for effective adaptive e commerce applications through self profiling. For example a potential supplier may include information on products or services offered in his or her profile. Self profiling information may be used to infer preferences and or intentions and interests with regard to system use and associated topical areas and with regard to degree of affinity with other user community subsets. A user may identify preferred methods of information receipt or learning style such as visual or audio as well as relative interest levels in other communities.

A third category of usage behaviors is known as collaborative behaviors. Collaborative behaviors are interactions among the one or more users. Collaborative behaviors may thus provide information on areas of interest and intensity of interest. Interactions including online referrals of elements or subsets of the one or more computer based systems such as through email whether to other users or to non users are types of collaborative behaviors obtained by the one or more computer based systems .

Other examples of collaborative behaviors include but are not limited to online discussion forum activity contributions of content or other types of objects to the one or more computer based systems posting information that is then received by subscribers categorizing subscribers so as to selectively broadcast information to subscribers linking to another user or any other alterations of the elements objects or relationships among the elements and objects of one or more computer based systems . Collaborative behaviors may also include general user to user communications whether synchronous or asynchronous such as email instant messaging interactive audio communications and discussion forums as well as other user to user communications that can be tracked by the one or more computer based systems .

A fourth category of process usage behaviors is known as reference behaviors. Reference behaviors refer to the marking designating saving or tagging of specific elements or objects of the one or more computer based systems for reference recollection or retrieval at a subsequent time. An indicator such as like is a reference behavior when used as a tag for later retrieval of associated information. Tagging may include creating one or more symbolic expressions such as a word or words e.g. a hashtag associated with the corresponding elements or objects of the one or more computer based systems for the purpose of classifying the elements or objects. The saved or tagged elements or objects may be organized in a manner customizable by users. The referenced elements or objects as well as the manner in which they are organized by the one or more users may provide information on inferred interests of the one or more users and the associated intensity of the interests.

A fifth category of process usage behaviors is known as direct feedback behaviors. Direct feedback behaviors include ratings or other indications of perceived quality by individuals of specific elements or objects of the one or more computer based systems or the attributes associated with the corresponding elements or objects. The direct feedback behaviors may therefore reveal the explicit preferences and or intentions of the user. In the one or more computer based systems the recommendations may be rated by users . This enables a direct adaptive feedback loop based on explicit preferences and or intentions specified by the user. Direct feedback also includes user written comments and narratives associated with elements or objects of the computer based system .

A sixth category of process usage behaviors is known as physiological responses. These responses or behaviors are associated with the focus of attention of users and or the intensity of the intention or any other aspects of the physiological responses of one or more users . For example the direction of the visual gaze of one or more users may be determined. This behavior can inform inferences associated with preferences and or intentions or interests even when no physical interaction with the one or more computer based systems is occurring. Even more direct assessment of the level of attention may be conducted through access to the brain patterns or signals associated with the one or more users. Such patterns of brain functions during participation in a process can inform inferences on the preferences and or intentions or interests of users and the intensity of the preferences and or intentions or interests. The brain patterns assessed may include MRI images brain wave patterns relative oxygen use or relative blood flow by one or more regions of the brain.

Physiological responses may include any other type of physiological response of a user that may be relevant for making preference or interest inferences independently or collectively with the other usage behavior categories. Other physiological responses may include but are not limited to utterances vocal range intensity and tempo gestures movements or body position. Attention behaviors may also include other physiological responses such as breathing rate heart rate temperature blood pressure or galvanic response.

A seventh category of process usage behaviors is known as environmental conditions and physical location behaviors. Physical location behaviors identify physical location and mobility behaviors of users. The location of a user may be inferred from for example information associated with a Global Positioning System or any other position or location aware system or device or may be inferred directly from location information input by a user e.g. inputting a zip code or street address or through an indication of location on a computer implemented map or otherwise acquired by the computer based systems . The physical location of physical objects referenced by elements or objects of one or more computer based systems may be stored for future reference. Proximity of a user to a second user or to physical objects referenced by elements or objects of the computer based application may be inferred. The length of time or duration at which one or more users reside in a particular location may be used to infer intensity of interests associated with the particular location or associated with objects that have a relationship to the physical location. Derivative mobility inferences may be made from location and time data such as the direction of the user the speed between locations or the current speed the likely mode of transportation used and the like. These derivative mobility inferences may be made in conjunction with geographic contextual information or systems such as through interaction with digital maps or map based computer systems. Environmental conditions may include the time of day the weather temperature the configuration of elements or objects in the surrounding physical space lighting levels sound levels and any other condition of the environment around the one or more users .

In addition to the usage behavior categories depicted in Table 1 usage behaviors may be categorized over time and across user behavioral categories. Temporal patterns may be associated with each of the usage behavioral categories. Temporal patterns associated with each of the categories may be tracked and stored by the one or more computer based systems . The temporal patterns may include historical patterns including how recently an element object or item of content associated with one or more computer based systems . For example more recent behaviors may be inferred to indicate more intense current interest than less recent behaviors.

Another temporal pattern that may be tracked and contribute to derive preference inferences is the duration associated with the access or interaction with or inferred attention toward the elements objects or items of content of the one or more computer based systems or the user s physical proximity to physical objects referenced by system objects of the one or more computer based systems or the user s physical proximity to other users. For example longer durations may generally be inferred to indicate greater interest than short durations. In addition trends over time of the behavior patterns may be captured to enable more effective inference of interests and relevancy. Since delivered recommendations may include one or more elements objects or items of content of the one or more computer based systems the usage pattern types and preference inferencing may also apply to interactions of the one or more users with the delivered recommendations themselves including accesses of or interactions with explanatory information regarding the logic or rationale that the one more computer based systems used in deciding to deliver the recommendation to the user.

In some embodiments adaptive communications or recommendations may be generated for the one or more users through the application of affinity vectors.

For example in some embodiments Member Topic Affinity Vectors MTAVs may be generated to support effective recommendations wherein for a user or registered member of the one or more computer based systems a vector is established that indicates the relative affinity which may be normalized to the continuum the member has for one or more object sub networks the member has access to. For computer based systems comprising a fuzzy content network based structural aspect the member affinity values of the MTAV may be in respect to topic networks.

So in general for each registered member e.g. member M a hypothetical MTAV could be of a form as follows 

The MTAV will therefore reflect the relative interests of a user with regard to all N of the accessible topics. This type of vector can be applied in two major ways 

In some embodiments an expertise vector MTEV may be used as a basis for generating recommendations of people with appropriately inferred levels of expertise rather than or in addition to using an MTAV as in the exemplary examples herein. That is the values of an MTEV correspond to inferred levels of expertise rather than inferred levels of interests as in the case of an MTAV.

To generate a MTAV or MTEV any of the behaviors of Table 1 may be utilized. For example in some embodiments the following example behavioral information may be used in generating an MTAV 

This behavioral information is listed above in a generally reverse order of importance from the standpoint of inferring member interests that is access information gathered over a significant number of accesses or over a significant period of time will generally provide better information than subscription information and save information is typically more informative of interests than just accesses.

Personal topics that are not shared with other users may be included in MTAV calculations. Personal topics that have not been made publicly available cannot be subscribed to by all other members and so could in this regard be unfairly penalized versus public topics. Therefore for the member who created the personal topic and co owners of that personal topic in some embodiments the subscription vector to may be set to True i.e. 1. There may exist personal topics that are created by a member and that have never been seen or contributed to by any other member. This may not otherwise affect the recommendations since the objects within that personal topic may be accessible by other members and any other relationships these objects have to other topics will be counted toward accesses of these other topics.

In some embodiments the first step of the MTAV calculation is to use information 1 4 above to generate the following table or set of vectors for the member as depicted in the following hypothetical example 

The Subscriptions vector of Table 2 contains either a 1 if the member has subscribed to a topic or is the owner co owner of a personal topic or a 0 if the member has not subscribed to the topic. The Topic Accesses vector contains the number of accesses to that topic s explore page by the member to a topic over a period of time for example the preceding 12 months.

The Weighted Accesses vector of Table 1 contains the number of the member s Member 1 accesses over a specified period of time of each object multiplied by the relevancies to each topic summed across all accessed objects. So for example if Object 1 has been accessed 10 times in the last 12 months by Member 1 and it is related to Topic 1 by 0.8 and Object 2 has been accessed 4 times in the last 12 months by Member 1 and is related to Topic 1 at relevancy level 0.3 and these are the only objects accessed by Member 1 that are related to Topic 1 then Topic 1 would contain the value 10 0.8 4 0.3 9.2 .

The Weighted Saves vector of Table 1 works the same way as the Weighted Accesses vector except that it is based on Member 1 s object save data instead of access data.

In some embodiments topic object saves are counted in addition to content object saves. Since a member saving a topic typically is a better indicator of the member s interest in the topic than just saving an object related to the said topic it may be appropriate to give more credit for topic saves than just content object saves. For example when a user saves a topic object the following process may be applied 

If the Subscriptions vector indicator is not already set to 1 for this topic in Table 1 it is set to 1 . The advantage of this is that even if the topic has been saved before 12 months ago the user will still at least get subscription credit for the topic save even if they don t get credit for the next two calculations .

In exactly the same way as a saved content object a credit is applied in the Weighted Accesses vector of Table 2 based on the relevancies of other topics to the saved topic. A special bonus weighting in the Weighted Accesses vector of Table 2 may be applied with respect to the topic itself using the weighting of 10 which means a topic save is worth at least as much as 10 saves of content that are highly related to that topic.

The next step is to make appropriate adjustments to Table 1. For example it may be desirable to scale the Weighted Accesses and Weighted Saves vectors by the number of objects that is related to each topic. The result is the number of accesses or saves per object per topic. This may be a better indicator of intensity of interest because it is not biased against topics with few related objects. However per object accesses saves alone could give misleading results when there are very few accesses or saves. So as a compromise the formula that is applied to each topic e.g. Topic N may be a variation of the following in some embodiments Weighted Accesses for Topic N Objects related to Topic N Square Root Weighted Accesses for Topic N This formula emphasizes per object accesses but tempers this with a square root factor associated with the absolute level of accesses by the member. The result is a table Table 2A of the form 

In some embodiments the next step is to transform Table 2A into a MTAV. In some embodiments indexing factors such as the following may be applied 

These factors have the effect of ensuring normalized MTAV values ranges e.g. 0 1 or 0 100 and they enable more emphasis on behaviors that are likely to provide relatively better information on member interests. In some embodiments the calculations for each vector of Table 1A are transformed into corresponding Table 2 vectors as follows 

In some embodiments member to member affinities can be derived by comparing the MTAVs of a first member and a second member . Statistical operators such as correlation coefficients may be applied to derive a sense of the distance between members in n dimensional topic affinity space where there are N topics. Since different users may have access to different topics the statistical correlation for a pair of members is preferentially applied against MTAV subsets that contain only the topics that both members have access to. In this way a member to member affinity vector MMAV can be generated for each member or user and the most similar members the least similar members etc. can be identified for each member . In some embodiments a member to member expertise vector MMEV may be analogously generated by comparing the MTEVs of a pair of users and applying correlation methods.

With the MTAVs MMAVs and Most Similar Member information available a set of candidate objects to be recommended can be generated in accordance with some embodiments. These candidate recommendations may in a later processing step be ranked and the highest ranked to candidate recommendations will be delivered to the recommendation recipient . Recall that recommendations may be in context of navigating the system or out of context of navigating the system .

Following are more details on an exemplary set of steps related to generating out of context recommendations. At each step the candidate objects may be assessed against rejection criteria for example the recommendation recipient having already recently received the candidate object may be a cause for immediate rejection and against a maximum number of candidate objects to be considered.

A variation of the out of context recommendation process may be applied for in context recommendations where the process places more emphasis of the closeness of the objects to the object being viewed in generating candidate recommendation objects.

For both out of context and in context recommendations a ranking process may be applied to the set of candidate objects according to some embodiments. The following is an exemplary set of input information that may be used to calculate rankings.

A ranking is then developed based on applying a mathematical function to some or all or input items listed directly above and or other inputs not listed above. In some embodiments user or administrator adjustable weighting or tuning factors may be applied to the raw input values to tune the object ranking appropriately. These recommendation preference settings may be established directly by the user and remain persistent across sessions until updated by the user in some embodiments.

Some non limiting examples of weighting factors that can be applied dynamically by a user or administrator are as follows 

The values of the weighting factors are combined with the raw input information associated with an object to generate a rating score for each candidate object. The objects can then be ranked by their scores and the highest scoring set of X objects where X is a defined maximum number of recommended objects can be selected for deliver to a recommendation recipient . In some embodiments scoring thresholds may be set and used in addition to just relative ranking of the candidate objects. The scores of the one or more recommended objects may also be used by the computer based system to provide to the recommendation recipient a sense of confidence in the recommendation. Higher scores would warrant more confidence in the recommendation of an object than would lower scores.

In some embodiments other types of recommendation tuning factors may be applied by a user or administrator. For example the scope of a social network such as degrees of separation may be adjusted so as to influence the recommendations and or relationship types or categories of social relationships may be selected to tune recommendations . Recommendation recipients or administrators may also or alternatively be able to restrict objects representing other specified users from being recommended or restrict objects authored or otherwise having an affiliation with other specified users.

In some embodiments the scope of geography or distance from a current location including but not limited to the expected time to travel from the existing location to one or more other locations may be tuned or adjusted so as to influence recommendations . The expected time to travel may be a function of the actual or inferred mode of transportation of the recommendation recipient road conditions traffic conditions and or environmental conditions such as the weather. The specification of scope of geography distance and or time to travel may be via an automated monitoring or inference of the recommendation recipient s current location or may be via an explicit indication of location by the recommendation recipient through entering a location designation such as a zip code or by indicating a location on a graphical representation of geography for example by indication location on a computer implemented map display.

Other tuning factors that may be applied to influence recommendations include the ability for the recommendation recipient to select a recommendation recipient mood or similar type of state of mind self assessment that influences the generation of a recommendation. For example a recommendation recipient might indicate the current state of mind is busy and less frequent and more focused recommendations could be generated as a consequence.

For recommendations of people recommendation recipients can tune the recommendations they receive by the degree of similarity of interests for one or more topics according to some embodiments. Similarly recommendation recipients may tune recommendations of people by the degree of difference in their level of expertise for one or more topics versus other users. This can be beneficial for example when a recommendation recipient seeks to receive recommendations of other people who have greater levels of expertise than themselves for one or more topics but not too much greater levels of expertise.

In some embodiments another type of tuning that may be applied by a user or administrator relates to the degree to which the capacity for enhanced serendipity is incorporated within the recommendation generating function of the adaptive system .

In some embodiments a serendipity function comprises an interest anomaly function that identifies contrasting affinities between a first user s MTAV and a second user s MTAV. Situations in which the first user s MTAV and the second user s MTAV have contrasting values associated with one or more topical areas but wherein the two MTAVs otherwise have a higher than typical level similarity as determined a vector similarity function such as but not limited to cosine similarity or correlation coefficient functions present the opportunity for preferentially recommending objects with a relatively high affinity to the topical areas associated with the contrasting MTAV affinities. More specifically for two users that have a relatively high level of similarity based on a comparison of their entire MTAVs if the affinity values of the first user s MTAV corresponding to one or more topical areas is relatively high and the affinity values of the second user s MTAV corresponding to the one or more topical areas is relatively low then one or more objects with relatively high OTAV values associated with the one or more topical areas may be preferentially recommended to the second user.

In some embodiments the amount and or quality of usage behavioral information on which the respective MTAV affinity values of the two users is based may additionally influence the generated recommendation . Specifically in the above example if the affinity values of the second user s MTAV corresponding to the one or more topical areas are relatively low and there is relatively little behavioral information on which said affinity values are based then there is even greater motivation to recommend one or more objects with relatively high OTAV values associated with the one or more topical areas to the second user. This is because there is incrementally greater value in learning more about the user s interest than if the low affinities were based on inferences from a larger body of behavioral information as well as there being a less likelihood of providing a recommendation that is truly not of interest to the user.

In some embodiments then a general method of generating beneficially serendipitous recommendations combines the contrasting of topical affinities among users and the relative confidence levels in the topical contrasting affinities. This approach provides a direction for generating recommendations that are further from inferred interests that would otherwise be generated. Besides direction a serendipity function may also include a distance factor and a probability factor. That is according to some embodiments generating serendipity can be thought of as exploring other areas of a multi dimensional interest landscape where the best inference based on historical behavioral information is a local maximum on the landscape. The serendipity function can be thought of as performing a jump on the interest landscape where the jump is in a specified direction for a specified distance and performed with a specified frequency or probability. One or more of these serendipity distance direction and probability parameters may be tunable by a user or administrator in accordance with some embodiments.

In some embodiments the serendipity function may include applying a degree of randomization in addition to or instead of applying the interest anomaly function. This randomization function may be applied when selecting objects from a set of candidate objects to be recommended to a recommendation recipient rather than simply relying on deterministic scoring means. In such embodiments the serendipity tuning function can be used by a user or administrator to control the degree to which delivered recommendations deviate from the recommendations that would otherwise be delivered using purely deterministic means.

The serendipity distance may be generated in accordance with a mathematical function. In some embodiments the distance and or probability factors may be generated in accordance with a power law distribution as a non limiting example the distance and or probability factors may be in accordance with a Levy Walk function.

It should be understood that other recommendation tuning controls may be provided that are not explicitly described herein.

Recall that knowledge discovery and expertise discovery refer to learning layer functions that generate content recommendations and people recommendations respectively.

For expertise discovery there are at least two categories of people that may be of interest to other people within a user community 

Expertise discovery functions deliver recommendations within a navigational context of the recommendation recipient or without a navigational context. In some embodiments a person or persons may be recommended consistent with the navigational neighborhood which may be in accordance with a topical neighborhood that the recommendation recipient is currently navigating. The term navigating as used herein should be understood to most generally mean the movement of the user s attention from one object to another object while interacting with or being monitored by a computer implemented user interface wherein the user interface may be visual audio and or kinesthetic based . Entering a search term for example is an act of navigating as is browsing or scrolling through an activity stream or news feed through use of a mouse keyboard and or gesture detection sensor.

In some embodiments expertise may be determined through a combination of assessing the topical neighborhood in conjunction with behavioral information . The behavioral information that may be applied includes but is not limited to the behaviors and behavior categories in accordance with Table 1.

As a non limiting example an expertise score may be generated from the following information in some embodiments 

In some embodiments this information may be applied to generate expertise rankings as illustrated in the following non limiting example 

In some embodiments user controlled tuning or preference controls may be provided. For example an expertise tuning control may be applied that determines the scope of the navigational neighborhood of the network of content that will be used in calculating the total expertise scores. The tuning controls may range for example from a value V of 1 broadest scope to 5 narrowest scope .

In some embodiments the topical neighborhood of the currently navigated topic T may then defined as encompassing all content items with a relationship indicator R to topic T such that R V 1. So if V 5 then the topical neighborhood includes just the content that has a relationship of 4 to the topic T and so on. Expertise tuning may be effected through a function that enables expertise breadth to be selected from a range corresponding to alternative levels of V in some embodiments.

In some embodiments other tuning controls may be used to adjust expertise discovery recommendations with regard to depth of expertise in addition to or instead of breadth of expertise. For example for a given navigational neighborhood a user or administrator may be able to adjust the required thresholds of inferred expertise for a recommendation to be delivered to the recommendation recipient and or may be able to tune the desired difference in expertise levels between the recommendation recipient and recommended people. Tuning of recommendations may also be applied against a temporal dimension so as to for example account for and or visualize the accretion of new expertise over time and or for example to distinguish long term experts in a topical area from those with more recently acquired expertise.

In some embodiments the expertise discovery function may generate recommendations that are not directly based on navigational context. For example the expertise discovery function may infer levels of expertise associated with a plurality of topical neighborhoods and evaluate the levels of expertise for the topical neighborhoods by matching an MTAV or MTEV or other more explicit indicator of topical expertise demand associated with the recommendation recipient and a plurality of MTEVs of other users. Positive correlations between the expertise recommendation recipient s MTAV or topical expertise demand indicators and an MTEV or negative correlations between the expertise recommendation recipient s MTEV and another MTEV are factors that may influence the generation of expertise recommendations. In some embodiments the MMAV or an expertise matching equivalent such as an MMEV of the recommendation recipient may be applied by the expertise discovery function in evaluating other users to recommend.

In some embodiments recommendation recipients may select a level of expertise desired and the expertise discovery function evaluates expertise levels in specific topical neighborhoods for matches to the desired expertise level. The recommendation recipient may set the expertise discovery function to infer his level of expertise in a topical neighborhood and to evaluate others users for a similar level of expertise. The inference of expertise may be performed based at least in part by comparing the values of the recommendation recipient s MTEV with the associated topics in the specified topical neighborhood.

In some embodiments expertise may be inferred from the pattern matching of information within content. For example if a first user employs words phrases or terminology that has similarities to a second user who is inferred by the system to have a high level expertise then everything else being equal the system may infer the first user to have a higher than level of expertise. In some embodiments vocabularies that map to specific areas and or levels of expertise may be accessed or generated by the system and compared to content contributed by users in evaluating the level of expertise of the users.

Recall that the MTEV can be generated from behavioral information including but not limited to the behaviors and behavioral categories described in Table 1 similarly to the MTAV except expertise is inferred rather than interests and preferences. As just one example of the difference in inferring an expertise value associated with a topic rather than an interest value clicking or otherwise accessing an object may be indicative of a interest in the associated topic or topics but not very informative about expertise with regard to the associated topic or topics. On the other hand behaviors such as but not limited to creating objects writing reviews for objects receiving high ratings from other users with regard to created objects being subscribed to by other users who have an inferred relatively high level of expertise creation or ownership of topics and so on are more informative of expertise levels with regard to the associated topic or topics and are preferentially applied in generating MTEV values according to some embodiments. Similarly to the generation of MTAVs weights may be applied to each of multiple types of behavioral factors in generating composite MTEV values in accordance with their expected relative strength of correlation with actual expertise levels.

In some embodiments a difference between the calculation method of an MTAV versus that of an MTEV is that MTAV values are indexed across topics that is the MTAV values represent relative interest levels of a user among topics whereas MTEV values are indexed across users that is the MTEV values represent relative levels of expertise among users .

In some embodiments MTEV values may be calibrated using a benchmarking process enabling an inference of an absolute level of expertise instead of or in addition to an inference of a relative level of expertise among users. For example a test result or other type of expertise calibration information may be applied that establishes a benchmark expertise level for a user across one or more topics. Expertise calibration means include but are not limited to educational proxies for expertise levels such as certifications education programs degrees attained experience levels in a field or performing an activity and or current or past professions. For example a recent graduate degree in a specific branch of mathematics would be indicative of a high level of expertise in that branch of mathematics and likely a fairly high level of expertise in mathematical topics in general. The expertise calibration information may be available to the recommendation function through a user s self profiling behavior or may be accessed through other means.

The inferred MTEV values for the benchmarked user can then be used as a basis for indexing the inferred MTEV values of other users . This approach can be beneficial because an inferred expertise level that is calibrated against a benchmark level can enable the generation of more effective recommendations particularly with regard to the generation of recommendations of content and or topics. Whereas for recommendations of expertise e.g. recommendations of other users a purely relative expertise levels may be sufficient for generating useful recommendations the process of generating recommendations of content or topics can often benefit from having a greater sense of absolute levels of expertise. This is particularly the case when the recommendation function has access to information that is suggestive of the levels of expertise for which potentially recommended content or topics are appropriate. Information that is suggestive of the levels of expertise for which an object will be most appropriate may be acquired by the recommendation function through access to an explicit indication such as for example through and expertise level indication within meta information associated with an object or the recommendation function may assess the expertise levels for which an object would be most appropriate through inferences from the content or information within the object.

In some embodiments the recommendation function combines one or more MTAVs with one or more MTEVs in generating a recommendation . For example first the MTAV of a recommendation recipient may be used by the recommendation function to determine the one or more topics of highest interest to the recommendation recipient. The recommendation function may then compare the recommendation recipient s MTEV to the MTEVs of other users to identify one or more of the topics of highest interest for which the recommendation recipient has a lower level of expertise or more generally a complementary level of expertise compared to one or more other users. The one or more other users whose MTEVs satisfy this condition are then candidates for recommending to the recommendation recipient. Another example of combining MTAV and MTEV information in generating a recommendation is first identifying the one or more topics of highest interest to the recommendation recipient and then using the recommendation recipient s MTEV to recommend content or topics that are consistent with the MTEV values associated with the highest interest topics. Where the recommendation function is able to assess the levels of expertise for which an item of content or topic are appropriate those levels of expertise can be compared against the corresponding MTEV values and serve as at least one factor in the recommendation function users in deciding whether to recommend the item of content to the recommendation recipient.

Inferences of levels of expertise can be informed by collaborative behaviors with regard to other users who are inferred to have given levels of expertise. In some embodiments users are automatically clustered or segmented into levels of inferred expertise. Often levels of expertise cluster that is people with similar levels of expertise preferentially collaborate a tendency which can be beneficially used by the expertise inferencing function. A recursive method may be applied that establishes an initial expertise clustering or segmentation which in conjunction with collaborative and other behaviors enables inferences of expertise of these and other users not already clustered which then in turn enables adjustments to the expertise clusters and so on.

Inferences of expertise that are embodied within an MTEV may be informed by the contents of objects associated with a user in accordance with some embodiments. For example the use and or frequency of use of certain words or phrases may serve as a cue for level of expertise. More technical or domains specific language as informed by for example a word or phrase frequency table would be indicative of level of expertise in a field. Other expertise cues include punctuation question marks everything else being equal are more likely to be indicative of less expertise.

In some embodiments when a recommendation of expertise in topical neighborhoods or for one or more specific topics is required the selected topics are compared to user MTEVs to determine the best expertise match to the selected topics. For example a specific project may require expertise in certain topical areas. These selected topical areas are then compared to MTEVs to determine the users with be most appropriate level of expertise for the project.

In some embodiments the selected topics for which expertise is desired may be weighted and the weighted vector of selected topics is compared to the corresponding topical expertise values in user MTEVs positive correlations between the weighted vector of selected topics and the MTEVs of other users are preferentially identified. Mathematical functions are applied to determine the best expertise fit in the weighted selected topic case or the un weighted selected topic case.

In some embodiments the behaviors of users within one or more expertise segments or clusters are assessed over a period of time after an event associated with one or more topical areas. The event embodied as an object could for example correspond to a condition identified by another user or be identified and communicated by a device. The post event behaviors assessed for expertise cohorts may then form the basis for recommended content people and or process steps to be delivered to users when the same or similar event occurs in the future. These event specific recommendations may be tempered by an assessment of the recommendation recipient s MMEV such that if relatively high levels of expertise are inferred relative to the event or related topics then best practice process step recommendations derived from the post event behaviors associated with the highest expertise cohort may be recommended. If relatively lower levels of expertise are inferred relative to the event or related topics then process step recommendations derived with the highest expertise cohort may be supplemented with for example additional educational or verification steps.

In addition to delivering a recommendation of an object the computer based application may deliver a corresponding explanation of why the object was recommended. This can be very valuable to the recommendation recipient because it may give the recipient a better sense of whether to bother to read or listen to the recommended content or in the case of a recommendation of another user whether to for example contact them prior to committing significant amount of time. For recommendations that comprise advertising content the explanation may enhance the persuasiveness of the ad.

The explanations may be delivered through any computer implemented means including but not limited to delivery modes in which the recommendation recipient can read and or listen to the recommendation.

In some embodiments variations of the ranking factors previously described may be applied in triggering explanatory phrases. For example the following table illustrates how the ranking information can be applied to determine both positive and negative factors that can be incorporated within the recommendation explanations. Note that the Ranking Value Range is the indexed attribute values before multiplying by special scaling factors Ranking Category Weighting Factors such as the What s Hot factor etc.

An exemplary process that can be applied to generate explanations based on positive and negative thresholds listed in 2E is as follows 

Step 1 First Positive Ranking Category subtract the 1Positive Threshold column from the Transformed Range column and find the maximum number of the resulting vector may be negative . The associated Ranking Category will be highlighted in the recommendation explanation.

Step 2 Second Positive Ranking Category subtract the 2Positive Threshold column from the Transformed Range column and find the maximum number of the resulting vector. If the maximum number is non negative and it is not the ranking category already selected then include this second ranking category in the recommendation explanation.

Step 3 First Negative Ranking Category subtract the Negative Threshold column from the Transformed Range column and find the minimum number of the resulting vector. If the minimum number is non positive this ranking category will be included in the recommendation explanation as a caveat otherwise there will be no caveats.

Although two positive and one negative thresholds are illustrated in this example an unlimited number of positive and negative thresholds may be applied as required for best results.

In some embodiments explanations are assembled from component phrases and delivered based on a syntax template or function. Following is an example syntax that guides the assembly of an in context recommendation explanation. In the syntactical structure below phrases within are optional depending on the associated logic and calculations and means concatenating the text strings. Other detailed syntactical logic such as handling capitalization is not shown in this simple illustrative example.

The following section provides some examples of phrase tables or arrays that may be used as a basis for selecting appropriate phrases for a recommendation explanation syntax. Note that in the following tables when there are multiple phrase choices they are selected probabilistically. NULL means that a blank phrase will be applied. indicates that this text string is a variable that can take different values.

The above phrase array examples are simplified examples to illustrate the approach. In practice multiple syntax templates accessing different phrase arrays with each phrase array many different phrases and phrase variations are required to give the feel of human like explanations. These example phrase arrays are oriented toward recommendations based on recommendation recipient interests as encoded in MTAVs for recommendations related to the expertise of other users as encoded for example in MTEVs explanation syntactical rules and phrase arrays tailored for that type of recommendation are applied. In some embodiments explanatory syntactical rules and phrases are applied that are consistent with explanations of recommendations that are generated in accordance with both an MTAV and MTEV.

As mentioned above a sense of confidence of the recommendation to the recommendation recipient can also be communicated within the recommendation explanation. The score level may contribute to the confidence level but some other general factors may be applied including the amount of usage history available for the recommendation recipient on which to base preference inferences and or the inferred similarity of the user with one or more other users for which there is a basis for more confident inferences of interests or preferences. The communication of a sense of confidence in the recommendation can be applied to recommendations with regard to expertise as well as interest based recommendations. The degree of serendipity incorporated by the serendipity function may be communicated to the user and may influence the communication and related syntax and or phrases applied in the communication as well as affect the communication of the degree of confidence in a recommendation.

In some embodiments a recommendation explanation may reference a tuning factor and its setting. For example if a user has set a recency tuning factor so as to slant the recommendations toward recommending objects that have been recently published the explanation may contain words or phrases to the effect that acknowledge that a recommended object is in accordance with that setting. Or for example if a person is recommended in accordance with an expertise scope level set by the recommendation recipient the explanation might reference that setting as a justification for its recommendation or alternatively the explanation might acknowledge a tuning setting but indicate why other factors over rode the setting in generating the explantation . For example an exemplary recommendation explanation in this case is Although Jim Smith s expertise does not appear to be the deepest in subject x I infer that he has significant breadth of expertise in related subjects and you have directed me to emphasize breadth of expertise. 

Recommendation explanations are one type of behavioral based communications that the one or more computer based applications may deliver to users . Other types of adaptive communications may be delivered to a user without necessarily being in conjunction with the recommendation of an object or item of content. For example a general update of the activities of other users and or other trends or activities related to people or content may be communicated.

Adaptive communications may also include contextual information in accordance with some embodiments. For example contextual information may be provided to assist a user in navigating the structural aspect D of an adaptive system D. Contextual information may additionally or alternatively include information related to the structure of originating systems that have been transformed into a fuzzy network based structural aspect D.

One example of contextual information that may be communicated to the user is the scope of the navigational neighborhood associated with the structural aspect D of an adaptive system D and or the structure of one or more originating systems .

Another example of contextual information within an adaptive communication relates to the cross contextualization between a transformed structure D and the structure of an originating system . For example the adaptive communication may include an indication to the user that is navigating within a specific position within the structural aspect D of an adaptive system D the equivalent navigational position within one or more originating systems . The specific navigational position in the adaptive system D on which cross contextualization is based can be a topic or a specific item of content for example.

The adaptive communications may include references to hierarchical structures for example it may be communicated to the user that a topic is the parent of or sibling to another topic. Or for a fuzzy network based structure the strength of the relationships among topics and content may be communicated.

In some embodiments adaptive communications may include explanations of recommended objects in which the explanations include references to words phrases concepts and or themes that are included within or derived from the contents of OCVs that are associated with the objects . For example the explanation may indicate to the recommendation recipient that a recommended object is inferred to emphasize themes that are aligned with topics that are inferred to be of high interest to the recommendation recipient or which are appropriate for the recommendation recipient s inferred level of expertise on one or more topics.

Adaptive communications may also comprise one or more phrases that communicate an awareness of behavioral changes in the user over time and inferences thereof. These behavioral changes may be derived at least in part from an evaluation of changes in the user s MTAV and or MTEV values over time. In some cases these behavioral patterns may be quite subtle and may otherwise go unnoticed by the user if not pointed out by the computer based system . Furthermore the one or more computer based systems may infer changes in interests or preferences or expertise of the user based on changes in the user s behaviors over time. The communications of these inferences may therefore provide the user with useful insights into changes in his interest preferences tastes and over time. This same approach can also be applied by the one or more computer based systems to deliver insights into the inferred changes in interests preferences tastes and or expertise associated with any user to another user . These insights packaged in an engaging communications can simulate what is sometimes referred to as a theory of mind in psychology.

The adaptive communications in general may apply a syntactical structure and associated probabilistic phrase arrays to generate the adaptive communications in a manner similar to the approach described above to generate explanations for recommendations. The phrase tendencies of the adaptive communications over a number of generated communications can be said to constitute a personality associated with the one or more computer based applications . The next section describes how in some embodiments of the personality can evolve and adapt over time based at least in part on the behaviors of the communication recipients .

In accordance with the syntactical structure that is determined for the communication one or more phrases are probabilistically selected based on frequency distributions associated with an ensemble of phrases to generate a communication to the user.

User behaviors which may include those described by Table 1 herein are then evaluated after receipt of the user communication. Based at least in part on these evaluations the frequency distributions of one or more phrases that may be selected for future user communications are then updated . For example if the user communication is an explanation associated with an adaptive recommendation and it is determined that the recommendation recipient reads the corresponding recommended item of content then the relative frequency of selection of the one or more phrases comprising the explanation of the adaptive recommendation might be preferentially increased versus other phrases that were not included in the user communication. Alternatively if the communication elicited one or more behaviors from the communication recipient that were indicative of indifference or a less than positive reaction then the relative frequency of selection of the one or more phrases comprising the communication might be preferentially decreased versus other phrases that were not included in the user communication.

In an illustrative data structure supporting the adaptive personality process according to some embodiments is shown. The data structure may include a designator for a specific phrase array . A phrase array may correspond to a specific unit of the syntax of an overall user communication. Each phrase array may contain one or more phrases indicated by a specific phrase ID . Associated with each phrase is a selection frequency distribution indicator . In the illustrative data structure this selection frequency distribution of phrases in a phrase array is based on the relative magnitude of the value of the frequency distribution indicator. In other embodiments other ways to provide selection frequency distributions may be applied. For example phrases may be selected per a uniform distribution across phrase instances in a phrase array and duplication of phrase instances may be used to as a means to adjust selection frequencies.

Returning to in some embodiments phrase attributes that are associated with specific phrases may be used as a basis for self aware phrase selection. Two example phrase attributes whose values are associated with specific phrases are shown. An unlimited number of attributes could be used as to provide as nuanced a level of self awareness as desired.

When changes in phrase frequency distributions are evaluated the corresponding attributes are also evaluated. These attributes map to attributes that are associated with self aware phrases in self aware phrase data structure . For example if phrases that have the attribute value humorous have been increasing in frequency then self aware phrases that reference humorous may be appropriate to include in generating a communication of self awareness to a user . As is the case of any other communication the behaviors of the recipient of the communication may be evaluated and the self aware phrase frequency distributions of the self aware phrases may be updated accordingly. This recursive evaluation and updating of phrase frequency distributions can be applied without limit.

A request for a communication to a user is made. The request may be a direct request from a user or the request may be made by another function of the computer based system . In some embodiments the request for a communication to the user may be initiated by a function that generates an adaptive recommendation. A communication to the user is then generated . This generation is performed by first determining the appropriate syntactical rules or structure for the communication. In some embodiments the syntax rules are of an If some condition Then apply a specific phrase array structure. Once the appropriate syntax is established and associated phrase arrays are determined specific phrases are probabilistically retrieved from the phrase array function based on selection frequency distributions associated with the corresponding phrase arrays. The communication is then assembled and delivered to a user .

User behaviors of the communication recipient are then monitored . Based on inferences from these behaviors the phrase array frequency distributions of the phrase array function are updated appropriately.

Servers and are shown perhaps residing at different physical locations and potentially belonging to different organizations or individuals. A standard PC workstation is connected to the server in a contemporary fashion potentially through the Internet. It should be understood that the workstation can represent any processor based device mobile or fixed including a set top box. In this instance the one or more computer based applications in part or as a whole may reside on the server but may be accessed by the workstation . A terminal or display only device and a workstation setup are also shown. The PC workstation or servers may embody or be connected to a portable processor based device not shown such as a mobile telephony device which may be a mobile phone or a personal digital assistant PDA . The mobile telephony device or PDA may in turn be connected to another wireless device such as a telephone or a GPS receiver. As just one non limiting example the mobile device may be a gesture sensitive smart phone wherein gestures or other physiological responses are monitored either through actual physical contact between the device and a user or without physical contact by means of for example a touch screen and or through a camera or other sensor apparatus. The sensor apparatus may include devices for monitoring brain patterns and or other physiological processes and conditions. The sensor apparatus may operate within a human body in accordance with some embodiments. The mobile device may include hardware and or software that enable it to be location aware and may embody a camera and or sensors that enable the monitoring of environmental conditions such as weather temperature lighting levels moisture levels sound levels and so on.

Computing system represents a PC or other computing system which connects through a gateway or other host in order to access the server on which the one or more computer based applications in part or as a whole reside. An appliance includes software hardwired into a physical device or may utilize software running on another system that does not itself host the one or more computer based applications such as in the case a gaming console or personal video recorder. The appliance is able to access a computing system that hosts an instance of one of the relevant systems such as the server and is able to interact with the instance of the system.

The processor based systems on which the one or more computer based applications operate may include hardware and or software such as cameras that enable monitoring of physiological responses or conditions such as gestures body movement gaze heartbeat brain waves temperature blood composition and so on. The processor based systems may include sensors that enable sensing of environmental conditions such as weather conditions lighting levels physical objects in the vicinity and so on.

While the present invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate numerous modifications and variations therefrom. It is intended that the appended claims cover all such modifications and variations as fall within the scope of this present invention.

