---

title: Frozen precipitation treatment analysis system
abstract: A frozen precipitation treatment analysis system may include, in one embodiment, an electronic mobile device and a Global Positioning System (GPS). The mobile device may have software that uses the GPS and inputted information to produce a work flow plan for treating frozen precipitation at a site. In another embodiment, a frozen precipitation treatment analysis system may include an electronic mobile device and a virtual map of a site requiring frozen precipitation treatment analysis. The mobile device may have software that uses the virtual map and inputted information to determine the area of the site and/or other factors related to the frozen precipitation treatment analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330367&OS=09330367&RS=09330367
owner: Swenson Spreader, LLC
number: 09330367
owner_city: Lindenwood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150515
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 037 938 filed Sep. 26 2013 entitled SOFTWARE APPLICATION THAT ALLOWS A USER TO UTILIZE A MOBILE DEVICE TO CONTROL FROZEN PRECIPITATION TREATMENT SYSTEMS which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 706 151 filed Sep. 27 2012 entitled SOFTWARE APPLICATION THAT ALLOWS A USER TO UTILIZE A MOBILE DEVICE TO CONTROL SNOW AND ICE CONTROL EQUIPMENT the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention pertains to the art of frozen precipitation treatment and more specifically to methods and apparatuses of doing frozen precipitation treatment analysis at sites using an electronic mobile device.

Frozen precipitation such as snow and ice accumulate on roadways tending to make the roadways slippery. It is thus desirable to remove or prevent accumulation of the frozen precipitation. Various means are used to accomplish this examples of which include but are not limited to plows granular spreaders pre wet applications and anti ice applications. The ice or snow control equipment used to remove or prevent such accumulation is currently most often controlled by remote wired or wireless controllers.

According to one embodiment of this invention a frozen precipitation treatment analysis system may be used at one or more associated sites and comprises an electronic mobile device that comprises software related to frozen precipitation treatment input controls that are manipulatable by an associated user to input into the electronic mobile device information related to frozen precipitation treatment at the one or more associated sites and at least one of A 1 a Global Positioning System GPS and 2 wherein the software combines the GPS and inputted information from the associated user concerning a plurality of the associated sites to produce a work flow plan indicated on the electronic mobile device that suggests an order in which the plurality of associated sites could be worked to treat frozen precipitation and B 1 one or more virtual maps of the one or more associated sites and 2 wherein the software combines the one or more virtual maps and the inputted information from the associated user to do at least one of a determine the area of the one or more associated sites b estimate the cost required to treat frozen precipitation at the one or more associated sites c estimate the time required to treat frozen precipitation at the one or more associated sites and d estimate the frozen precipitation treatment mechanisms required to treat frozen precipitation at the one or more associated sites.

According to another embodiment of this invention a frozen precipitation treatment analysis system may be used at one or more associated sites comprises an electronic mobile device that comprises software related to frozen precipitation treatment input controls that are manipulatable by an associated user to input into the electronic mobile device information related to frozen precipitation treatment at the one or more associated sites one or more virtual maps of the one or more associated sites and wherein the software combines the one or more virtual maps and the inputted information from the associated user to a determine the area of the one or more associated sites b estimate the cost required to treat frozen precipitation at the one or more associated sites and c estimate the time required to treat frozen precipitation at the one or more associated sites.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the invention only and not for purposes of limiting the same and wherein like reference numerals are understood to refer to like components shows a frozen precipitation treatment system that may be used to treat a ground surface and that may include an electronic mobile device according so some embodiments of this invention. The ground surface can be any that requires treatment for frozen precipitation such as roadways parking lots and sidewalks though other ground surfaces may also work with this invention. By frozen precipitation it is meant snow ice sleet hail rain and other fluids that freeze or may freeze and the like. By frozen precipitation treatment system it is meant any device or combination of devices that are used to treat frozen precipitation. By treat it is meant to remove frozen precipitation and or to prevent its accumulation. In the frozen precipitation treatment system includes a vehicle in the form of a truck. In other embodiments other vehicles may be used such as but not limited to a car an all terrain vehicle ATV and a tractor. This invention may also have applications without the use of a vehicle.

Still referring to when used the vehicle may support one or more frozen precipitation treatment assemblies that are operable to remove or prevent the accumulation of frozen precipitation on the ground surface . In one embodiment shown a frozen precipitation treatment assembly may be a snow plow . In another embodiment also shown a frozen precipitation treatment assembly may be a spreader . In yet other embodiments the frozen precipitation treatment assembly may be an under body scraper a plow wing a dump body pre wet equipment or an anti icer. This invention will work with any frozen precipitation treatment assembly chosen with the sound judgment of a person of skill in the art.

With reference now to snow plow may be a frozen precipitation treatment assembly used with this invention. The snow plow may include a frozen precipitation treatment mechanism in the form of a blade that is operable to remove the accumulation of snow or ice from a ground surface in a manner well known to those of skill in the art. The snow plow may also include an electronic controller that operates the blade and a receiver that receives electric control signals and communicates them to the electronic controller to operate the blade . The receiver may be positioned within a housing separate from the electronic controller or may as shown be positioned within the same housing as the electronic controller . The snow plow may also have an attachment mechanism to mount or attach the snow plow to a vehicle in any known manner such as to vehicle shown in . The snow plow may have any number of components well known to those of skill in the art. The snow plow may for example have a hydraulic mechanism that is used to adjust the position of the blade such as with hydraulic cylinders . While the blade shown can be adjusted to pivot about a vertical axis and can be raised and lowered between non use and used positions it should be understood that an adjustment of such a blade including blade wings will work well with this invention. The snow plow may having a lighting system used to light the ground surface that is treated as is well known to those of skill in the art.

The components used with a snow plow such as but not limited to snow plow in and snow plow in and an electronic mobile device shown schematically in according to this invention are not limited to those described above. Thus the following US Patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety U.S. Pat. No. 8 453 358 titled DUAL COMPRESSION SPRING RAM U.S. Pat. No. 7 918 042 titled THREE POSITION WING FOR SNOWPLOW U.S. Pat. No. 7 661 211 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RAISING A SNOW PLOW U.S. Pat. No. 7 631 442 titled MODULAR HYDRAULIC POWER MECHANISM U.S. Pat. No. 7 591 087 titled FLOW DIVIDER FOR SNOWPLOW WINGS U.S. Pat. No. 6 273 729 titled LIGHT HARNESS CONNECTOR U.S. Pat. No. 6 256 909 titled ONE PLUG SYSTEM FOR A SNOWPLOW U.S. Pat. No. 6 163 985 titled SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING A SNOWPLOW AND OTHER VEHICLE ACCESSORIES U.S. Pat. No. 5 361 519 titled CONTROL PAD FOR A SNOWPLOW U.S. Pat. No. 4 353 177 titled CONTROL FOR SNOWPLOW BLADE U.S. Pat. No. 3 706 144 titled CONTROL MEANS FOR A SNOW PLOW U.S. Pat. No. 3 604 454 titled HYDRAULIC AND ELECTRIC CONTROL DEVICE and U.S. Pat. No. 3 432 946 titled LIFTING AND PRESSURE UNIT FOR SNOWPLOWS AND THE LIKE.

With reference now to spreader may be a frozen precipitation treatment assembly used with this invention. The spreader may include a frozen precipitation treatment mechanism in the form of a spinner plate that is rotatable by a motor to spread or apply a substance such as salt or sand onto a ground surface to melt snow and ice from the ground surface as is well known. The spreader may also include an electronic controller shown schematically that operates the motor and a receiver that receives electric control signals and communicates them to the electronic controller to operate rotate the spinner plate . The receiver may be positioned within a housing separate from the electronic controller or may as shown be positioned within the same housing as the electronic controller . The spreader may also have a hopper that holds the substance that is spread and an attachment mechanism to mount the spreader to a vehicle in any known manner such as to vehicle shown in .

The components used with a spreader such as but not limited to spreader shown in and spreader shown in and an electronic mobile device shown schematically in according to this invention are not limited to those described above. Thus the following US Patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety U.S. Pat. No. 8 523 086 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR STOPPING A SPREADER U.S. Pat. No. 8 505 838 titled ELECTRIC INTERLOCK FOR SPREADER U.S. Pat. No. 8 505 837 titled TAILGATE SPREADER HOPPER FILL STATUS SENSOR and U.S. Pat. No. 6 978 952 titled SAND SALT SPREADER.

A frozen precipitation treatment assembly is shown schematically in . The frozen precipitation treatment assembly ies used with this invention may be any suitable frozen precipitation treatment assembly as discussed above. The frozen precipitation treatment assembly may include a frozen precipitation treatment mechanism such as a snow plow blade or spreader spinner plate that is operable to remove or prevent the accumulation of frozen precipitation on a ground surface. The frozen precipitation treatment assembly may also include an electronic controller that operates the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism and a receiver that receives electric control signals and communicates them to the electronic controller to operate the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism . In some embodiments the frozen precipitation treatment assembly may include at least one component that has a measurable characteristic a sensor that senses the measurable characteristic and an electronic measure signal generator that generates and sends an electric measure signal to the electronic mobile device based on the measurable characteristic sensed by the sensor . The electronic mobile device may also indicate to the user the measurable characteristic based on the electric measure signal and in this way perform diagnostic functions.

With continuing reference to the particular component and sensor can be any chosen with the sound judgment of a person of skill in the art. The component may be for example a hydraulic mechanism such as hydraulic mechanism described above and shown in which is used to operate a snow plow. The characteristic that is measured may be the pressure of the hydraulic fluid and the sensor may be a pressure sensor. In another embodiment the component may be a motor such as motor described above and shown in which is used to operate a spreader spinner plate. The characteristic that is measured may be the current draw of the motor and the sensor may be an amp meter. In yet another embodiment the component may be a lighting system such as lighting system described above and shown in which is used to illuminate a ground surface. The characteristic that is measured may be the current draw of the lights and the sensor may be an amp meter. Communication means may be used so that the various components can communicate with each other. The communication means can be any chosen with the sound judgment of a person of skill in the art such as but not limited to wiring wireless communications piping physical contact etc.

With reference now to the electronic mobile device of this invention may be of any type chosen by a person of skill in the art. An electronic mobile device as is well known by those of skill in the art is a relatively small handheld computing device. Some non limiting examples of an electronic mobile device include a cellular telephone an iPad an iPhone an Android device a Kindle a Nook a Bluetooth device a Wi Fi device a laptop and a touchpad. The electronic mobile device may be positioned in any location suitable for the user to communicate via communication means . It may for example be positioned within the vehicle or in another vehicle or in any location close enough to operate the corresponding frozen precipitation treatment assembly . The electronic mobile device may include an operating system and or software applications that controls the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism input controls that are manipulatable by a user to use the software and an electronic control signal generator that generates and sends the electric control signals to the receiver based on the associated user s manipulation of the input controls. The input controls may be of any type chosen with the sound judgment of a person of skill in the art. The input controls may include a display screen and or a miniature keyboard . In one embodiment the input controls may comprise at least one voice activated control that enables the user to input data with his her voice. In another embodiment the input controls may include a tactile feedback device device that provides tactile feedback to the user as the user manipulates the input controls . In another embodiment at least a portion of the input controls may be displayed on or within the vehicle other than on or within the electronic mobile device . This display may be for example on the vehicle s windshield. The electronic mobile device is operated by the user to control one or more components of the frozen precipitation treatment assembly .

With reference now to in another embodiment the electronic mobile device may include a Global Positioning System GPS that as known to those of skill in the art provides location and time information. The electronic mobile device may also include software that uses the GPS in a manner related to treating frozen precipitation. In one embodiment the electronic mobile device may include software that tracks information related to the operation of the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism and software that combines the GPS and the information related to the operation of the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism to analyze operation characteristics of the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism . In one specific embodiment the software may track the amount of time the snow plow blade see is on the ground and the software may combine the time the snow plow blade is on the ground with the GPS to determine how much of the ground surface was plowed. In another specific embodiment the software may track the amount of time the spreader spinner plate see is rotated and the software may combine the time the spreader spinner plate is rotated with the GPS to determine how much of the ground surface was coated with salt. In yet another specific embodiment the software may track the amount of salt in the spreader hopper see and the software may combine the time the amount of salt with the GPS to determine how much salt was spread over a given area of ground surface.

Still referring to in another embodiment the electronic mobile device may include software that combines the GPS and inputted information from the user concerning work site locations to produce a work flow plan. The user may input the addresses of five separate work sites for example into the electronic mobile device and the software may combine the inputted data with the GPS to suggest an order in which the work sites could most conveniently be worked. This order may then be indicated on the electronic mobile device . In yet another embodiment the electronic mobile device may include software that uses information from the GPS to determine the ground speed of the vehicle software that controls the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism see based on the ground speed of the vehicle and an electronic control signal generator that generates and sends the electric control signals to the receiver based on the software that controls the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism . In one specific embodiment the software may control the spreader see to release more or less salt based on the speed of the vehicle carrying the spreader .

With reference now to in another embodiment the electronic mobile device may be used in a frozen precipitation treatment analysis system for use at a site where a ground surface is to be treated for frozen precipitation. In one embodiment the electronic mobile device may include a virtual map of the site input controls that are manipulatable by a user to input into the electronic mobile device information related to frozen precipitation treatment at the site and software that combines the virtual map and the inputted information to produce an estimate of at least one resource required to treat frozen precipitation at the site. Inputted information may include areas that cannot be treated such as light poles garden areas or grassy areas. In one embodiment the software determines the area of the site. In another embodiment the software estimates the cost required to treat frozen precipitation at the site. In yet another embodiment the software estimates the time required to treat frozen precipitation at the site. In still another embodiment the software estimates the frozen precipitation treatment mechanism s required to treat frozen precipitation at the site.

Numerous embodiments have been described hereinabove. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the above methods and apparatuses may incorporate changes and modifications without departing from the general scope of this invention. It is intended to include all such modifications and alterations in so far as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

