---

title: Conflict detection for self-aligned multiple patterning compliance
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and systems for performing design layout are provided. An initial design layout is associated with an electrical component, such as a standard cell. A conflict graph is generated based upon the initial design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes, representing polygons within the initial design layout, connected by one or more edges. A same-process edge specifies that two nodes are to be generated by the same pattern process, while a different-process edge specified that two nodes are to be generated by different pattern processes, such as a mandrel pattern process and a passive fill pattern process. The conflict graph is evaluated to identify a conflict, such as a self-aligned multiple pattering (SAMP) conflict, associated with the initial design layout. The conflict is visually displayed so that the initial design layout can be modified to resolve the conflict.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449140&OS=09449140&RS=09449140
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09449140
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20151214
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. Pat. No. 8 782 575 titled CONFLICT DETECTION FOR SELF ALIGNED MULTIPLE PATTERNING COMPLIANCE which issued on Jul. 15 2014. This application claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 8 782 575 by way of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 326 553 titled CONFLICT DETECTION FOR SELF ALIGNED MULTIPLE PATTERNING COMPLIANCE and filed on Jul. 9 2014. U.S. Pat. No. 8 782 575 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 326 553 are incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 326 553 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 213 790.

Electronic design tools allow designers to layout simulate and analyze electrical components such as standard cells and integrated circuits. In an example a designer may create a design layout for a standard cell. Once the design layout is complete complex post processing is used to make the design layout self aligned multiple patterning SAMP compliant. For example the design layout is adjusted using mandrel pattern and passive fill pattern. A trim mask is used to either retain a portion of the design layout covered by the trim mask to create a final layout or to remove a portion of the design layout covered by the trim mask to create the final layout.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and systems for performing design layout are provided herein. In some embodiments the design layout corresponds to an electrical component such as a standard cell configured to provide logic based functionality or storage functionality. The electrical component can be designed using at least one of a mandrel pattern or a passive fill pattern. Because the design layout can conflict with physical space constraints associated with using mandrel pattern or passive fill pattern conflicts of the design layout can be identified and resolved for verification of the design layout as self aligned multiple patterning SAMP compliant as provided herein.

In some embodiments of detecting a conflict an initial design layout associated with an electrical component is received. A conflict graph is generated from the initial design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more edges. A node represents a polygon corresponding to a portion of the electrical component within the initial design layout. An edge corresponds to either a same process edge type or a different process edge type. The same process edge type specifies that two polygons represented by two nodes connected by a same process edge are to be generated by the same patterning process. For example a same process edge connects a first node and a second node that are both to be generated by a first pattern process such as either a mandrel pattern process or a passive fill pattern process. The different process edge type specifies that two polygons represented by two nodes connected by a different process edge are to be generated by different patterning processes. For example a different process edge connects a first node that is to be generated by the first pattern process such as the mandrel pattern process and a second node that is to be generated by a second pattern process such as the passive fill pattern process.

Responsive to the conflict graph comprising at least one same process edge a first cluster one node and a second cluster one node connected by a first same process edge are clustered into a first multi node cluster for inclusion within a cluster graph. In an example a cluster one node is a node that can be included within the first multi node cluster based upon the cluster one node being connected to another cluster one node by a same process edge. For example a third cluster one node that is connected by a same process edge to at least one of the first cluster one node or the second cluster one node is clustered into the first multi node cluster for inclusion within the cluster graph. In an example one or more multi node clusters are generated for inclusion within the cluster graph. For respective unclustered nodes an unclustered node is included within the cluster graph as a single node cluster. In this way the cluster graph comprising one or more node clusters is generated. For respective loops within the cluster graph a conflict associated with the initial design layout is identified based upon a loop comprising an odd number of node clusters. As a simple example the conflict can correspond to a first node connected to a second node by both a same process edge and a different process edge. A similarity rule that the first node and the second node are to be generated by the same pattern process as specified by the same process edge and a difference rule that the first node and the second node are to be formed by different pattern processes as specified by the different process edge cannot both be satisfied. In an example the conflict is displayed within a visualization of the initial design layout. In another example a spacing constraint recommendation used to adjust spacing between one or more polygons within the initial design layout in order to resolve the conflict is displayed. In this way the initial design layout is modified and a design layout that can be verified as self aligned multiple patterning SAMP compliant is generated.

In some embodiments of detecting a conflict an initial design layout associated with an electrical component is received. An initial representation of the initial design layout is generated. The initial representation comprises one or more nodes representing polygons within the initial design layout that correspond to portions of the electrical component connected by one or more edges such as a same process edge or a different process edge. Responsive to the initial representation comprising at least one same process edge one or more same process edges are merged into the initial design layout to generate a merged design layout. A conflict graph is generated based upon the merged design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more different process edges. For respective loops within the conflict graph a conflict associated with the initial design layout is identified based upon a loop comprising an odd number of nodes. In this way the conflict is visually illustrated so that appropriate action can be taken to resolve the conflict so that an SAMP compliant design layout can be generated.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects can be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In an example a second spacing threshold range corresponds to a second spacing between the first polygon and the second polygon . For example the second spacing is relatively larger than the first spacing corresponding to the first spacing threshold range . The first polygon is represented by a first mandrel pattern surrounded by a first spacer material . The second polygon is represented by a passive fill pattern formed between the first spacer material of the first mandrel pattern and a second spacer material of a second mandrel pattern such as a dummy mandrel pattern used merely to form the passive fill pattern . In this way the first polygon and the second polygon can be formed at the second spacing based upon a different process pattern rule specifying that the first polygon and the second polygon are to be formed from different pattern processes such as mandrel pattern for the first polygon and the passive fill pattern for the second polygon .

In an example a third spacing threshold range corresponds to a third spacing between the first polygon and the second polygon . For example the third spacing is relatively larger than the second spacing corresponding to the second spacing threshold range . In an example the first polygon and the second polygon cannot be physically manufactured using mandrel pattern or passive fill pattern based upon the third spacing. For example a first mandrel pattern is formed as the first polygon . Spacer material is formed around the first mandrel pattern . Neither a second mandrel pattern nor a passive fill pattern such as a passive fill pattern can be physically formed as the second polygon at the third spacing from the first polygon .

In an example a fourth spacing threshold range corresponds to a fourth spacing between the first polygon and the second polygon . For example the fourth spacing is relatively larger than the third spacing corresponding to the third spacing threshold range . Based upon the fourth spacing the first polygon and the second polygon can be formed based upon a same process pattern rule specifying that the first polygon and the second polygon are to be formed from the same pattern process. In an example the first polygon is represented by a first mandrel pattern surrounded by a first spacer material and the second polygon is represented by a second mandrel pattern surrounded by a second spacer material . In another example the first polygon is represented by a first passive fill pattern formed relative to a third spacer material surrounding a third mandrel pattern such as a dummy mandrel pattern and the second polygon is represented by a second passive fill pattern formed relative to the third spacer material surrounding the third mandrel pattern .

In an example a fifth spacing threshold range corresponds to a fifth spacing between the first polygon and the second polygon . For example the fifth spacing is relatively larger than the fourth spacing corresponding to the fourth spacing threshold range . Based upon the fifth spacing the first polygon and the second polygon can be formed based upon the same process pattern rule or the different process pattern rule. In an example of the same process pattern rule the first polygon is represented by a first passive fill pattern formed relative to a first spacer material surrounding a first mandrel pattern such as a dummy mandrel pattern and the second polygon is represented by a second fill pattern formed relative to the first spacer material surrounding the first mandrel pattern . In another example of the same process pattern rule the first polygon is represented by a second mandrel pattern surrounded by a second spacer material and the second polygon is represented by a third mandrel pattern surrounded by a third spacer material . In an example of the different process pattern rule the first polygon is represented by a fourth mandrel pattern surrounded by a fourth spacer material and the second polygon is represented by a third passive fill pattern formed between a fifth spacer material surrounding a fifth mandrel pattern such as a dummy mandrel pattern and a sixth spacer material surrounding a fifth mandrel pattern such as a dummy mandrel pattern. In this way one or more polygons within a design layout of an electrical component can be generated based upon such process pattern design rules which can mitigate self aligned multiple patterning SAMP conflicts.

An exemplary method of performing design layout according to some embodiments is illustrated in and exemplary design layouts evaluated by such a methodology are illustrated in . At an initial design layout associated with an electrical component such as a standard cell is received. The initial design layout comprises one or more polygons that are to be formed to create the electrical component. It is appreciated that four different examples such as an example an example an example and an example are described in conjunction with exemplary method for illustrative purposes to show initial design layouts having either conflicts or no conflicts. In the example of a first initial design layout comprises a first polygon a second polygon and a third polygon . In the example of a second initial design layout comprises a first polygon a second polygon and a third polygon . In the example of a third initial design layout comprises a first polygon a second polygon a third polygon and a fourth polygon . In the example a fourth initial design layout comprises a first polygon a second polygon and a third polygon . As provided herein conflict detection and correction is facilitated so that a design layout that is self aligned multiple patterning SAMP compliant can be generated from the initial design layout.

At a conflict graph is generated from the initial design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more edges. A node represents a polygon within the initial design layout. An edge specifies whether two nodes connected by the edge are to be formed from the same pattern process or formed by different pattern processes. In an example a same process edge connecting a first node and a second node specifies that the first node and the second node are to both be generated by a first pattern process such as a mandrel pattern process. In an example a different process edge connecting a third node and a fourth node specifies that the third node is to be formed by the first pattern process such as the mandrel pattern process and that the fourth node is to be formed by a second pattern process such as a passive fill pattern process.

In example of a first conflict graph is generated from the first initial design layout. The first conflict graph comprises a first node representing the first polygon a second node representing the second polygon and a third node representing the third polygon . A first different process edge connects the first node and the second node based upon spacing between the first node and the second node corresponding to a spacing threshold range specifying that the first node and the second node are to be formed by different pattern processes. A second different process edge connects the second node and the third node based upon spacing between the second node and the third node corresponding to a spacing threshold range specifying that the second node and the third node are to be formed by the different pattern processes. A first same process edge connects the first node and the third node based upon spacing between the first node and the third node corresponding to a spacing threshold range specifying that the first node and the third node are to be formed by the same pattern process. A second same process edge connects the first node and the third node based upon spacing between the first node and the third node corresponding to a spacing threshold range specifying that the first node and the third node are to be formed by the same pattern process. In this way the first conflict graph is generated from the first initial design layout in example .

In example of a second conflict graph is generated from the second initial design layout. The second conflict graph comprises a first node representing the first polygon a second node representing the second polygon and a third node representing the third polygon . The second conflict graph comprises one or more edges that specify whether polygon pairings such as two polygons represented by two nodes connected by an edge are to be formed by the same or different pattern processes based upon spacing between such polygons. A first different process edge connects the first node and the second node . A second different process edge connects the second node and the third node . A third different process edge connects the first node and the third node . A first same process edge connects the first node and the third node . In this way the second conflict graph is generated from the second initial design layout in example .

In example of a third conflict graph is generated from the third initial design layout. The third conflict graph comprises a first node representing the first polygon a second node representing the second polygon a third node representing the third polygon and a fourth node representing the fourth polygon . The third conflict graph comprises one or more edges that specify whether polygon pairings such as two polygons represented by two nodes connected by an edge are to be formed by the same or different pattern processes based upon spacing between such polygons. A first different process edge connects the first node and the second node . A first same process edge connects the second node and the third node . A second same process edge connects the third node and the fourth node . A third same process edge connects the fourth node and the first node . In this way the third conflict graph is generated from the third initial design layout in example .

In example of a fourth conflict graph is generated from the fourth initial design layout. The fourth conflict graph comprises a first node representing the first polygon a second node representing the second polygon and a third node representing the third polygon . The fourth conflict graph comprises one or more edges that specify whether polygon pairings such as two polygons represented by two nodes connected by an edge are to be formed by the same or different pattern processes based upon spacing between such polygons. A first different process edge connects the second node and the third node . A second different process edge connects the third node and the first node . A third different process edge connects the first node and the second node . In this way the fourth conflict graph is generated from the fourth initial design layout in example .

At responsive to a conflict graph comprising at least one same process edge a first cluster one node and a second cluster one node connected by a first same process edge are clustered into a first multi node cluster for inclusion within a cluster graph. In an example a cluster one node is a node that is connected to one or more other cluster one nodes by same process edges such that the cluster one nodes are identified for inclusion within the first multi node cluster. A multi node cluster can comprise two or more nodes such as a third cluster one node connected to at least one of the first cluster one node or the second cluster one node by a same process edge. In another example a cluster two node is a node that is connected to one or more other cluster two nodes but not a cluster one node by same process edges such that the cluster two nodes are identified for inclusion within a second multi node cluster. In this way one or more multi node clusters are generated based upon nodes interconnected by same process edges. At for respective unclustered nodes an unclustered node is included as a single node cluster within the cluster graph. A single node cluster comprises a single node. At for respective loops within the clustered graph a conflict associated with the initial design layout is identified based upon a loop comprising an odd number of node clusters.

In example of a first cluster graph is generated based upon one or more clusters identified from the first conflict graph . For example the first node and the third node are clustered into a first multi node cluster based upon the first node and the third node being connected by at least one same process edge such as the first same process edge or the second same process edge . The second node is clustered into a first single node cluster . In this way the first conflict graph comprises a single loop corresponding to the first multi node cluster connected to the first single node cluster by the first different process edge and the second different process edge . Because the single loop comprises an even number of node clusters the first multi node cluster and the first single node cluster no conflicts are detected for the first initial design layout.

In example of a second cluster graph is generated based upon one or more clusters identified from the second conflict graph . For example the first node and the third node are clustered into a first multi node cluster based upon the first node and the third node being connected by the first same process edge . The second node is clustered into a first single node cluster . In this way the second cluster graph comprises a first loop and a second loop. The first loop corresponds to the first multi node cluster connected to itself by the third different process edge and the second loop corresponds to the first multi node cluster connected to the first single node cluster by the first different process edge and the second different process edge . Because the first loop comprises an odd number of node clusters the first multi node cluster a conflict is detected for the second initial design layout. In an example the conflict is displayed within a visualization of the second initial design layout. In an example a spacing constraint recommendation for the conflict is provided. In an example the spacing constraint recommendation provides a suggested spacing between one or more polygons which can result in removal of an edge or modification of an edge type. For example the spacing constraint recommendation specifies an increase in spacing between the first polygon and a lower portion of the third polygon . The increase spacing can result in the third different process edge changing to a same process edge type because the increased spacing can correspond to a spacing threshold range specifying a same process edge type. In an example of displaying the conflict one or more mandrel pattern layers for the second initial design layout are displayed. A mandrel pattern comprises at least one of a mandrel or dummy mandrel surrounded at least in part by spacer. One or more trim pattern layers are displayed. In this way a designer of the second initial design layout can visualize the conflict and modify the second initial design layout accordingly. In an example responsive to a modification of the second initial design layout to resolve the conflict a design layout which can be verified as self aligned multiple patterning SAMP compliant can be generated based at least in part upon the modified second initial design layout.

In example of a third cluster graph is generated based upon one or more clusters identified from the third conflict graph . For example a first node a second node a third node and a fourth node are clustered into a first multi node cluster based upon such nodes being connected by same process edges such as the first same process edge the second same process edge and the third same process edge . In this way the third cluster graph comprises a single loop corresponding to the first multi node cluster being connected to itself by the first different process edge . Because the single loop comprises an odd number of node clusters the first multi node cluster a conflict is detected for the third initial design layout. The conflict can be illustrated within a visualization of the third initial design layout and a spacing constraint recommendation can be provided for the conflict. Responsive to a modification of the third initial design layout to resolve the conflict a design layout which can be verified as self aligned multiple patterning compliant can be generated based at least in part upon the modified third initial design layout.

In example of a fourth cluster graph is generated based upon one or more clusters identified from the fourth conflict graph . For example a first node is clustered into a first single node cluster . A second node is clustered into a second single node cluster . A third node is clustered into a third single node cluster . In this way the fourth cluster graph comprises a single loop corresponding to the first single node cluster being connected to the second single node cluster by the third different process edge the second single node cluster being connected to the third single node cluster by the first different process edge and the third single node cluster being connected to the first single node cluster by the second different process edge . Because the single loop comprises an odd number of node clusters the first single node cluster the second single node cluster and the third single node cluster a conflict is detected for the fourth initial design layout. The conflict can be illustrated within a visualization of the fourth initial design layout and a spacing constraint recommendation can be provided for the conflict. Responsive to a modification of the fourth initial design layout to resolve the conflict a design layout which can be verified as self aligned multiple patterning compliant can be generated based at least in part upon the modified fourth initial design layout.

An exemplary method of performing design layout according to some embodiments is illustrated in . At an initial design layout associated with an electrical component is received. At an initial representation of the initial design layout is generated. The initial representation comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more edges. A node represents a polygon in the initial design layout. An edge connecting two nodes specifies whether the two nodes are to be formed by the same pattern process or by different pattern processes based upon spacing between polygons represented by the two nodes corresponding to a particular spacing threshold range. In an example a same process edge connects a first node that is to be generated by a first pattern process such as a mandrel pattern process and a second node that is to be formed by the first pattern process. In another example a different process edge connects a third node that is to be generated by the first pattern process such as the mandrel pattern process and a fourth node that is to be formed by a second pattern process such as a passive fill pattern process.

At responsive to the initial representation comprising at least one same process edge one or more same process edges are merged into the initial design layout to generate a merged design layout. At a conflict graph is generated based upon the merged design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more different process edges. In an example the conflict graph does not comprise a same process edge because the one or more same process edges were merged into the initial design layout. At for respective loops within the conflict graph a conflict associated with the initial design layout is identified based upon the loop comprising an odd number of nodes. In this way the conflict is identified and presented. Responsive to modification of the initial design layout to resolve the conflict a design layout is generated based upon the modified initial design layout. The design layout can be verified baring no other conflicts as self alignment multiple pattern SAMP compliant before at least one of generation of one or more mandrel pattern layers or generation of one or more trim pattern layers. Once verified one or more mandrel pattern layers for the design layout are generated. A mandrel pattern layer comprises mandrel surrounded at least in part by spacer. One or more trim pattern layers are generated for the design layout such that a portion of the design layout covered by a trim pattern layer is either removed or retained based upon a trimming technique used such as a negative or a positive trim technique.

The conflict detection component is configured to identify a conflict within the initial design layout such as a self aligned multiple pattern SAMP conflict using the conflict graph or the cluster graph. For example for respective loops within the conflict graph a conflict associated with the initial design layout is detected based upon the loop comprising an odd number of nodes. The conflict detection component is configured to provide at least one of the conflict or a spacing constraint recommendation that can be used to resolve the conflict. The conflict resolution component is configured to receive a modification to the initial design layout resulting in a modified initial design layout. The conflict resolution component is configured to generate a design layout such as an SAMP compliant design layout based upon the modified initial design layout. The conflict resolution component is configured to generate at least one of one or more mandrel pattern layers for the design layout or one or more trim pattern layouts for the design layout. In this way one or more polygons within the design layout are formed by at least one of mandrel pattern or passive fill pattern.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for performing design layout is provided. The method comprises receiving an initial design layout associated with an electrical component. A conflict graph is generated from the initial design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more edges. A node represents a polygon within the initial design layout. An edge comprises at least one of a same process edge or a different process edge. In an example a same process edge connecting a first node and a second node specifies that the first node and the second node are to be generated by a first pattern process such as a mandrel pattern process. In another example a different process edge connecting a third node and a fourth node specifies that the third node is to be generated by the first pattern process and that the fourth node is to be generated by a second pattern process such as a fill pattern process. In some embodiments responsive to the conflict graph comprising at least one same process edge a first cluster one node and a second cluster one node connected by a first same process edge are clustered into a first multi node cluster for inclusion within a cluster graph. For respective unclustered nodes an unclustered node is included as a single node cluster within the cluster graph. For respective loops within the cluster graph a conflict associated with the initial design layout is identified based upon a loop comprising an odd number of node clusters.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for performing design layout is provided. The method comprises receiving an initial design layout associated with an electrical component. An initial representation of the initial design layout is generated from the initial design layout. The initial representation graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more edges. A node represents a polygon within the initial design layout. An edge comprises at least one of a same process edge or a different process edge. In an example a same process edge connecting a first node and a second node specifies that the first node and the second node are to be generated by a first pattern process such as a mandrel pattern process. In another example a different process edge connecting a third node and a fourth node specifies that the third node is to be generated by the first pattern process and that the fourth node is to be generated by a second pattern process such as a fill pattern process. In some embodiments responsive to the initial representation comprising at least one same process edge merging one or more same process edges into the initial design layout to generate a merged design layout. A conflict graph is generated based upon the merged design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more different process edges. For respective loops within the conflict graph a conflict associated with the initial design layout is identified based upon a loop comprising an odd number of nodes.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for performing design layout is provided. The system comprises a graph component and a conflict detection component. The graph component is configured to receive an initial design layout associated with an electrical component. The graph component is configured to generate a conflict graph from the initial design layout. The conflict graph comprises one or more nodes connected by one or more edges. A node represents a polygon within the initial design layout. An edge between a first node and a second node comprises an edge type such as a same process edge type or a different process edge type identified based upon a space between a first polygon represented by the first node and a second polygon represented by the second node corresponding to a spacing threshold range assigned to the edge type. The conflict detection component is configured to identify a conflict associated with the initial design layout based upon a loop within the conflict graph comprising an odd number of nodes.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device may also include communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

