---

title: Management of privacy policies
abstract: Master privacy policies for different users are stored to a cloud-based central server. When a user interacts with a third-party service (such as FACEBOOK® or AMAZON®), the third party service may require acceptance of privacy policies before services are rendered. Here the cloud-based central server may automatically configure a privacy policy of the third-party service to the user's master privacy policy. The cloud-based central server thus relives the user of managing many different privacy policies required by many different third party service providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591029&OS=09591029&RS=09591029
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09591029
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150823
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 171 421 filed Feb. 3 2014 and since issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 143 531 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 306 669 filed Nov. 29 2011 and since issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 646 030 with both applications incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates generally to managing privacy and more particularly to a method and apparatus for providing a policy based privacy control in a communications network.

An ever increasing number of Internet services e.g. Facebook Google Twitter Amazon.com Apple and the like require more and more user identifiable information. How to protect this information becomes increasingly critical for both the users and the service providers. Each one of the service providers may have their own privacy policies and the users are required to manage each one of these policies separately. For example the users may be required to constantly update and change the privacy policies for each one of the service providers. As the number of service providers continues to grow managing each of the privacy policies separately becomes a very difficult task for all parties involved.

In one embodiment the present disclosure provides a method non transitory computer readable medium and apparatus for providing a master privacy policy in a communications network. In one embodiment the method receives a privacy control parameter to configure a master privacy policy stores the master privacy policy in the communications network and applies the master privacy policy to configure a third party service provider privacy policy for a third party service provider based upon the master privacy policy.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

The present disclosure broadly discloses a method non transitory computer readable medium and apparatus for providing a policy based privacy control in a communications network. Privacy control for each one of the numerous Internet service providers is important to protect information of an end user.

In one embodiment a more efficient method of providing a policy based privacy control in a communications network is provided. For example a centralized subscriber privacy vault SPV may be deployed to automatically manage privacy policies for any number of third party services used by an end user. For example the SPV may automatically configure each one of the third party service provider policies and automatically proliferate any changes made to a master privacy policy stored in the SPV.

In one embodiment the network may comprise one or more endpoint devices and associated with one or more end users and respectively one or more access networks and of the same operator or different operators e.g. a wired access network or a wireless access network a core network and one or more third party service providers and e.g. employing one or more application servers . In one embodiment the endpoint devices and may be any type of device capable of communicating over the communications network . For example the endpoint devices and may be a cellular telephone a smart phone a tablet computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a netbook and the like. Although six endpoint devices and two end users and and two third party service providers and are illustrated it should be noted that any number of endpoint devices end users or third party service providers may be deployed without limitation.

Although illustrates certain endpoints associated with the end users and it should be noted that there may not be a one to one correlation between the end users and and the endpoint devices and . In other words some endpoint devices may be used by both the end users and . Said yet another way a single endpoint device is not necessarily dedicated to only a single end user i.e. the single endpoint device can be used by multiple users.

In one embodiment the access networks and may be any type of access network such as a cellular network a wireless network a Wi Fi network a Publicly Switched Telephone Network PSTN an IP network and the like. The access networks and may be operated by the same operator or by different operators. The access networks and and the core network may include additional network elements that are not disclosed. For example the access networks and and the core network may also include border elements gateways routers switches call control elements various application servers and the like.

In one embodiment the core network may include an SPV . In one embodiment the SPV provides a centralized privacy policy control via the core network . For example the SPV may store a master privacy policy for each subscriber also referred to herein as users of the core network . For example the end user may have a master privacy policy stored at the SPV and the end user may have a master privacy policy stored at the SPV . In one embodiment each master privacy policy associated with each end user and may be associated with a unique pointer e.g. a unique universal resource locator URL address. Thus the user may direct requests for privacy policy configurations to a particular URL address such that the privacy policy may be configured in accordance with the master privacy policy.

In one embodiment the master privacy policy is configured based upon one or more privacy control parameters provided by the end user and . For example an end user may be provided with a user interface e.g. a web page that allows the user to input his or her preferences for the privacy control parameters. In one embodiment the user interface may be protected with a personal login and password. In other words an authentication mechanism may be deployed to authenticate the end user before the end user may access the SPV .

In one embodiment the privacy control parameter may simply be an overall level of privacy desired by a user e.g. high medium or low. In another embodiment the privacy control parameter may be a sharing parameter. For example the user may specify which groups of people should have access to which types of information. To illustrate the user may specify that family members may have access to all information of the user that friends may have access to general information of the user that work colleagues may have access to only work related information of the user and the like.

It should be noted that the above privacy control parameters are provided only as examples and should not be considered limiting. Other types of privacy control parameters not listed above may be considered to be within the embodiments of the present disclosure.

As noted above using the privacy control parameters received from the end users and a master privacy policy can be configured for the end users and . As a result the SPV provides a centralized repository and control mechanism for configuring any third party service provider privacy policy automatically. Thus the end user does not need to manage each third party service provider privacy policy separately but rather only needs to manage a single privacy policy e.g. the master privacy policy stored in the SPV in the communications network .

To illustrate when an end user accesses a service offered by the third party service provider the end user may be required to configure a third party service provider privacy policy. For example the third party service provider may be Facebook . Rather than manually configuring the third party service provider privacy policy the end user may simply direct the third party service provider to refer to the master privacy policy stored in the SPV . For example the end user may provide a URL to the third party service provider that points to his or her respective master privacy policy stored in the SPV . As a result the third party service provider privacy policy may be automatically configured by mapping the master privacy policy to the third party service provider privacy policy.

Subsequently the end user accesses another service offered by the third party service provider . The end user will be required to again configure another third party service provider privacy policy. For example the third party service provider may be an Apple iTunes store. Again rather than manually configuring another third party service provider privacy policy the end user may again direct the third party service provider to refer to the master privacy policy stored in the SPV . As a result the third party service provider privacy policy may be automatically configured by mapping the master privacy policy to the third party service provider privacy policy.

In one embodiment if a mapping cannot be found between the master privacy policy and the third party service provider privacy policy the SPV may send a notification to the end user via one of the endpoint devices or to request a clarification. For example the SPV may send an email text message or interactive voice call to the endpoint to request the end user to clarify how the end user would like to configure a particular privacy control parameter of the third party service provider privacy policy if a mapping cannot be found using the master privacy policy.

In one embodiment if any changes to the master privacy policy are made the SPV may automatically proliferate the changes to all of the third party service providers e.g. the third party service providers and that are accessed by the end user . Consequently the end user does not have to manually go to each third party service provider and separately to change each respective third party service provider privacy policy. Thus a significant amount of time and effort can be saved by the end user by changing only the master privacy policy and having the SPV automatically proliferates the changes.

The change may be due to a user changing his or her preference for one or more of the privacy control parameters of the master privacy policy or the change may be due to a change in government regulations regarding privacy issues. In one embodiment the SPV may track each of the third party service providers that have been accessed by the endpoint device and have had a third party service provider privacy policy configured by the SPV . This allows the SPV to know which third party service provider privacy policies need to be updated with the change to the master privacy policy.

In one embodiment the endpoint device and of the end users and respectively may enforce the implementation of the master privacy policy. For example once the master privacy policy is configured and stored at the SPV the endpoint device may receive a copy. The endpoint device may refer to the copy of the master privacy policy when a transaction is detected with a third party service provider e.g. the third party service providers and to ensure that the third party service provider is acting properly. Notably the third party service provider privacy policy should act properly since it was configured in accordance with the master privacy policy.

In one embodiment if the endpoint device detects that the master privacy policy is being violated by a transaction the endpoint device may block the transaction. In addition the endpoint device may notify the end user and the SPV . As a result the SPV may attempt to re configure the third party service provider privacy policy automatically or the user may attempt to change a particular privacy control parameter of the third party service provider privacy policy that violated the master privacy policy.

In one embodiment the privacy policy mapping function may execute a method for policy mapping as illustrated in and discussed below. In one embodiment the template creation function may execute a method for generating a template as illustrated in and discussed below. In one embodiment the user authentication function may execute an authentication procedure as noted above. In one embodiment the policy engine may be responsible for executing the master privacy policy. In one embodiment the privacy policy repository may store all of the master privacy policies for each one of the end users.

In one embodiment the authentication function may be used to authenticate an end user that has provided authentication credentials. In one embodiment the copy of the master privacy policy and the list of third party service provider profiles may be loaded after the end user has been authenticated by the authentication function . In other words the copy of the master privacy policy and the list of third party service provider profiles may not actually exist until after an end user is successfully authenticated. In one embodiment the list of third party service provider profiles includes at least one profile for each of the services of a third party service provider that an end user is subscribed to.

The method begins at step and proceeds to step . At step the method receives or obtains initial inputs from current privacy laws privacy regulations and general user preferences.

At step the method generates an initial policy template for a master privacy policy based upon the initial inputs that were received. The initial policy template may provide a guideline to an end user as to which parameters need to be configured or can be personalized.

At step the method receives one or more specific privacy control parameters from an end user. For example when an end user initially subscribes to or activates a service for the centralized privacy policy control via the communications network the end user must provide an initial privacy policy control parameter to initially configure a master privacy policy. In one embodiment there may be more than one privacy policy control parameter.

In one embodiment the privacy control parameter may be an overall level of privacy desired by an end user e.g. a high level of privacy a medium level of privacy or a low level of privacy. In another embodiment the privacy control parameter may be a sharing parameter. For example the end user may specify which groups of people should have access to which types of information. To illustrate the end user may specify that family members may have access to all information of the end user that friends may have access to general information of the end user that work colleagues may have access to only work related information of the end user and the like.

It should be noted that the above privacy control parameters are provided only as examples and should not be considered limiting. Other types of privacy control parameters not listed above may be considered to be within the embodiments of the present disclosure.

At step the method configures the master privacy policy based upon the one or more specific privacy control parameters received from the end user.

At step the method stores the master privacy policy for the end user. In one embodiment the master privacy policy may be stored at the SPV . The method ends at step .

The method begins at step and proceeds to step . At step the method receives a request to configure a third party service provider privacy policy. In one embodiment the request may be received from the third party service provider or the end user. In one embodiment the request may be generated from a new subscription or request for a service initiated by the end user or due to a change to the master privacy policy.

At step the method applies the master privacy policy to configure a third party service provider privacy policy.

At step the method determines if all parameters of the third party service provider privacy policy are configurable based upon the master privacy policy. In other words the method determines whether each one of the parameters in the third party service provider privacy policy can be correlated to a parameter in the master privacy policy. For example if the master privacy policy is configured using a general privacy control parameter such as high privacy the high privacy may be mapped to the third party service provider privacy policy to prevent any personal information from being shared. As a result all of the parameters of the third party service provider privacy policy may be configured in accordance with what a high privacy setting would be.

In one embodiment the SPV may execute algorithms that can determine how the third party service provider privacy policy should be configured based upon the master privacy policy. In other words even though there may not be a one to one correlation of each one of the privacy control parameters between the master privacy policy and the third party service provider privacy policy the SPV is configured to extrapolate how an end user would want to configure a particular privacy control parameter of the third party service provider privacy policy based upon the master privacy policy.

At step if some of the parameters of the third party service provider privacy policy cannot be configured based upon the master privacy policy the method proceeds to step where the method asks the end user for clarification. For example the SPV may send an email a text message an interactive phone call or the like to an endpoint device of the end user to ask for clarification. The end user may then input how he or she would like a particular privacy control parameter to be configured if no mapping can be found. The method then proceeds to step .

Referring back to step if all of the parameters of the third party service provider privacy policy can be configured based upon the master privacy policy the method proceeds to step . At step the method configures the third party service provider privacy policy in accordance with the master privacy policy.

At step the method determines if additional third party service provider privacy policies need to be configured. For example if the end user is subscribed to ten different third party service providers then all ten privacy policies associated with each one of the ten different third party service providers would need to be configured. Thus the method advantageously may take different privacy policies from different third party service providers and map them to a common one based upon the master privacy policy stored at the SPV .

If additional third party service provider privacy policies need to be configured the method returns to step . If no additional third party service provider privacy policies need to be configured the method proceeds to step . The method ends at step .

The method begins at step and proceeds to step . At step the method detects a change to the master privacy policy. The change may be made for a variety of reasons. For example the user may simply decide to change a privacy control parameter e.g. from a high privacy level to a medium privacy level or the change may be required due to a government change in regulations regarding privacy.

At step the method updates the master privacy policy. The method then proceeds to step where the method configures all third party service provider privacy policies associated with an end user of the master privacy policy in accordance with the change. For example the change is proliferated to all of the third party service providers automatically without requiring the end user to manually go to each third party service provider and repeat the change multiple times.

The method begins at step and proceeds to step . At step the method receives by a third party service provider a request from an end user to subscribe to a service of the third party service provider. For example the end user may be initiating a new service from a third party service provider that the end user is already subscribing to.

At step the method receives by a third party service provider a location of the master privacy policy associated with the end user. For example the end user may provide a URL to the master privacy policy stored at the SPV . Thus the third party service provider may initiate a request for the master privacy policy from the SPV and obtain a copy of the master privacy policy to configure the third party service provider privacy policy. For example the third party service provider may receive a user identification ID and or an access code from the end user. In turn the third party service provider will contact the SPV using the user identification ID and or an access code to obtain a copy of the master privacy policy stored at the SPV that is associated with the end user. The use of the user identification ID and or an access code will indicate to the SPV that the end user has authorized a particular third party service provider to gain access to the end user s master privacy policy.

At step the method configures the third party service provider privacy policy in accordance with the master privacy policy. In one embodiment the configuring may be performed by a mapping process as illustrated in and discussed above. The method ends at step .

The method begins at step and proceeds to step . At step the method detects that an end user has initiated a new service to a third party service provider. For example the SPV may be informed by the end user directly or may receive a request from the third party service provider to provide a copy of the master privacy policy.

At step the method sends a copy of the master privacy policy to the third party service provider. Thus the third party service provider may receive a copy of the master privacy policy to configure the third party service provider privacy policy.

At step the method configures the third party service provider privacy policy in accordance with the master privacy policy. In one embodiment the configuring may be performed by a mapping process as illustrated in and discussed above. The method ends at step .

The method begins at step and proceeds to step . At step the method detects a transaction with a third party service provider. For example a transaction may be any event associated with a service offered by the third party service provider. For example the transaction may be a transmission of user information by the third party service provider a purchase transaction between the end user and the third party service provider and the like.

At step the method compares the transaction to a local copy of the master privacy policy. For example once the master privacy policy is configured and stored initially or due to a change a copy of the master privacy policy may be sent and stored at an endpoint device of the end user.

The endpoint device may then compare the transaction to the local copy of the master privacy policy to determine if the transaction is within the guidelines of the master privacy policy. In other words the endpoint device may make sure that no parameters of the master privacy policy are being violated by the transaction.

At step the method determines if the transaction is allowed. For example if no parameters of the master privacy policy are being violated then the transaction may be allowed and the method proceeds to step . At step the transaction is allowed and the method proceeds to step where the method ends.

Referring back to step if one or more parameters of the master privacy policy are being violated then the transaction may be denied and the method proceeds to step . At step the transaction is denied and the method proceeds to step where the method ends.

It should be noted that although not explicitly specified one or more steps of the methods described above may include a storing displaying and or outputting step as required for a particular application. In other words any data records fields and or intermediate results discussed in the methods can be stored displayed and or outputted to another device as required for a particular application. Furthermore steps or blocks in that recite a determining operation or involve a decision do not necessarily require that both branches of the determining operation be practiced. In other words one of the branches of the determining operation can be deemed as an optional step.

It should be noted that the present disclosure can be implemented in software and or in a combination of software and hardware e.g. using application specific integrated circuits ASIC a general purpose computer or any other hardware equivalents e.g. computer readable instructions pertaining to the method s discussed above can be used to configure a hardware processor to perform the steps of the above disclosed methods. In one embodiment the present module or process providing a policy based privacy service control in a communications network can be loaded into memory and executed by processor to implement the functions as discussed above. As such the present method providing a policy based privacy service control in a communications network including associated data structures of the present disclosure can be stored on a non transitory physical and tangible computer readable storage medium e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like. For example the processor can be programmed or configured with instructions e.g. computer readable instructions to perform the steps of methods .

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

