---

title: Methods for resistive switching of memristors
abstract: The present invention is directed generally to resistive random-access memory (RRAM or ReRAM) devices and systems, as well as methods of employing a thermal resistive model to understand and determine switching of such devices. In particular example, the method includes generating a power-resistance measurement for the memristor device and applying an isothermal model to the power-resistance measurement in order to determine one or more parameters of the device (e.g., filament state).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336870&OS=09336870&RS=09336870
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09336870
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150203
---
This application is a continuation in part of prior U.S. application Ser. No. 14 462 472 filed Aug. 18 2014 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 866 690 filed Aug. 16 2013 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

A computer program listing appendix including an ASCII formatted file accompanies this application. The appendix includes a file named SD13146 Appendix.txt created on Dec. 23 2014 size of 21.9 kilobytes which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention is directed generally to resistive random access memory RRAM or ReRAM devices and systems as well as methods of employing a thermal resistive model to understand and determine switching of such devices.

Memristors also known as ReRAMs have been proposed among the leading candidates for high density storage of information. Understanding the physical mechanisms that govern memristive switching has become a field of intense research. In particular such physical mechanisms are difficult to measure experimentally. For instance transmission electron microscopy studies are the de facto characterization technique but typically only provide a single post mortem filament state snapshot. Furthermore despite its fundamental importance filament temperature evolution is all but unknown experimentally. Accordingly additional methods to understand resistive states and filament states are desired.

The present invention relates to methods for operating one or more resistive memory devices or memristors . A memristor is composed of an insulator and is configured to support a conductive filament within this insulator. Typically a memristor possesses an ON state and an OFF state and each state can be described by at least one state variable e.g. a low resistance state corresponding to the ON state and a high resistance state corresponding to the OFF state . In particular these states as well as switching characteristics between states can be measured by a current voltage I V or a power resistance P R measurement of the memristive device.

The device state e.g. an ON state OFF state ON switching state and or OFF switching state and or the filament state e.g. filament conductivity or filament radius are difficult if not impossible to determine experimentally. Thus models are useful in order to understand one or more parameters of the memory device. Accordingly the present methods relate to such models. In one exemplary method the models can be employed to fit I V or P R loops and to determine one or more fitting values corresponding to a device state e.g. thereby reading a memory state of the device . In other embodiments such a model would be very desirable because it would enable the recorded state of a processed or partially processed memristor to be fully characterized from a few simple measurements and thus would simplify the grading of manufactured memristors as well as their corrective post processing.

Accordingly in a first aspect the invention features a method for operating a resistive memory device. In some embodiment the method includes providing a resistive memory device configured to provide a first filament disposed within the device where the device is coupled to a monitoring apparatus generating a P R and or an I V measurement for the device by employing the monitoring apparatus and applying an isothermal model to the P R and or I V measurement in order to determine one or more parameters of the device e.g. one or more parameters of the first filament such as any parameter or state variable described herein .

In some embodiments the P R measurement is a P R loop. In other embodiments the P R measurement includes a converted I V measurement e.g. a converted I V loop . In yet other embodiments the I V measurement includes an I V loop.

In some embodiments the generating step includes performing a sweep or series of applied power Pto the device and monitoring a resistance R of the device during the sweep or series. In other embodiments the generating step includes performing a sweep or series of applied voltage V e.g. a series of discrete voltage pulses V or applied current Ito the device and monitoring a resistance R or a current I of the device during the sweep or series. In yet other embodiments the generating step further includes converting the measured I and or R values into the P R measurement.

Accordingly in a second aspect the invention features a method for characterizing a resistive memory device. In some embodiments the method includes obtaining a P R and or an I V measurement for the device where the device is configured to provide a first filament disposed within the device and applying an isothermal model to the measurement e.g. the P R and or I V measurement in order to determine one or more parameters of the device.

In any embodiment herein the isothermal model includes a steady state heat flow model of the filament. In further embodiments the steady state heat flow model includes a radial heat flow component characterized by heat flow away from the filament and radially into the insulator surrounding the filament and a vertical heat flow component characterized by heat flow away from the filament and through the reactive electrode. In other embodiments the steady state heat flow model includes any equation described herein e.g. one or more of Eqs. 1 24 such as Eq. 1 2a 2b 7 8 10 11 12 13 14a 14b 15a 15b 16 17 21a 21c 22 23 and or 24 .

In any embodiment herein the applying step includes providing the isothermal model for ON switching which is expressed as any equation described herein e.g. one or more of Eqs. 1 24 such as Eq. 1 2a 2b 7 8 9a 9b 10 13 14a 14b 15a 15b 16 17 21a 21c 22 and or 23 and determining a fitting value e.g. the fitting value for each of T k and or as applied to an ON switching curve of the P R measurement or loop. In other embodiments the applying step further includes generating a simulated ON switching curve based on Eq. 1 2a 13 and or 14a and based on one or more fitting values e.g. a fitting value for each of T k and or . In yet other embodiments Tis of from about 1300 K to about 1800 K kis of from about 50 W MKto about 300 W MK and is of from about 6 10 mto about 9 10 m.

In any embodiment herein the applying step includes providing the isothermal model for OFF switching which is expressed as any equation described herein e.g. one or more of Eqs. 1 24 such as Eq. 1 2a 2b 7 8 9a 9b 10 13 14a 14b 15a 15b 16 17 21a 21c 22 and or 23 and determining a fitting value e.g. the fitting value for each of T k and or r as applied to an OFF switching curve of the P R measurement or loop.

In any embodiment herein the applying step further includes generating a simulated OFF switching curve based on Eq. 1 2b 13 and or 14b and based on one or more fitting values e.g. a fitting value for each of T k and or r . In yet other embodiments Tis of from about 1300 K to about 1800 K kis of from about 50 W MKto about 300 W MK and ris of from 5 nm to about 20 nm.

In any embodiment herein the applying step results in reading an ON state and or an OFF state of the first filament.

In any embodiment herein the generating step includes reading the state of the nfilament. In some embodiments the reading step includes performing a sweep of applied power Pto the nfilament of the device and monitoring a resistance of the device during the sweep where a change in resistance is indicated as the resistance setpoint R. In any embodiment herein Pcorresponds to P and Rcorresponds to R.

In any embodiment herein the applying step includes employing a set of concentric shells where each shell has a conductivity . In further embodiments the applying step includes providing a set of concentric shells where each shell has a conductivity and where the set represents the forming filament within the memristive device and calculating the conductivity of each shell using any useful equation e.g. Eq. 11 or 24 herein where variable C is allowed to vary . In yet further embodiments the applying step further includes incrementing the number of saturated shells in the set until ON switching is satisfied e.g. as provided by Eq. 14a herein . In yet other embodiments the applying step further includes decrementing the concentration of one or more shells in the set with the highest concentration until OFF switching is satisfied e.g. as provided by Eq. 14b herein .

In any embodiment herein the one or more parameters includes a filament composition e.g. a conductivity of the filament in the ON state a filament radius r e.g. a radius of the filament during ON switching and or OFF switching a surrounding thermal resistance k e.g. resistance of the reactive electrode a saturation conductivity of the ON state electrode thermal conductivity k a device temperature e.g. a critical activating temperature T a filament temperature a power threshold a simulated ON switching curve and or a simulated OFF switching curve.

In any embodiment herein the device includes a reactive electrode and an insulator configured to provide a first filament disposed within the insulator. In further embodiments the device includes a reactive electrode an inert electrode and an insulator where the inert and reactive electrodes are disposed on opposing sides of the insulator. In yet other embodiments one or more electrodes comprise silicon e.g. doped silicon .

In any embodiment herein the device is a resistive memory device. In some embodiments the resistive memory device has a reactive electrode and a conductive filament. The state variables of the filament can be set by any useful manner such as by applying an electric power in a first sweep with positive polarity on the reactive electrode until a first desired stopping point Pis reached and then with negative polarity on the reactive electrode applying an electric power in a second sweep until a first desired set point Pis reached. In other embodiments Pestablishes a first filament radius ras one state variable Pestablished a first conductivity as a second state variable and or each of Pand P together establishes a first power resistance angle as a third state variable where denotes a slope of P R. In some embodiments Pof the first sweep determines which R P storage coordinates will be accessible in the second sweep.

In embodiment herein the filament is characterized by a combination of state variables e.g. or for the nfilament or device and corresponding storage coordinates e.g. R P or R P P R for the nfilament or device . In one embodiment the combination of state variables corresponds to a R P storage coordinate where Rdenotes a resistance of the first filament or device and Pdenotes an applied power needed to begin changing the resistance of the first filament or device. In another embodiment a combination of state variables corresponds to a R P P R storage coordinate where Rdenotes a resistance of the second filament or device Pdenotes an applied power needed to begin changing the resistance of the second filament or device and P Rdenotes a slope of a change in applied power over a change in resistance. In other embodiments a combination of state variables or corresponds to a set of distinct R P coordinates i.e. a set of r p for each data curve a slope P R and or a fit f R P . In any embodiment herein R Rand or P P. In other embodiments R Ror P P.

In any embodiment herein the device is a memory including a plurality of m resistive memory devices e.g. where m is an integer more than one . In some embodiments each said device contains a respective stored data value embodied in a set of two or more state variables where the state variables include a combination of state variables for each nfilament e.g. where n is an integer more than one in each mdevice rdenotes a filament radius for the nfilament and denotes a conductivity for the nfilament. In other embodiments each corresponds to a R P storage coordinate where Rdenotes a resistance of the mdevice having the nfilament and Pdenotes an applied power needed to begin changing the resistance of the ndevice. In yet other embodiments the state variables include a combination of for each nfilament in each mdevice and denotes a power resistance angle for the nfilament where each corresponds to a R P P R storage coordinate and P Rdenotes a slope of a change in applied power over a change in resistance for the nfilament.

In any embodiment herein the method is employed to operate read write and or characterize a system including at least one resistive memory device having a reactive electrode a monitoring device configured to measure and to indicate the electrical resistance of the device and a controllable power source configured in response to the inputting of data for storage to perform any method described herein.

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to methods that employ a steady state isothermal model to understand switching behavior and states of filaments within memristors. In particular the model is time independent thereby providing a simplified model that need not require intensive computing power. By employing the methods herein the memristor state e.g. a memory storage state such as an ON or OFF state can be read in a simple manner. A memristor state can be characterized by any parameter described herein such as a filament composition a filament radius r a surrounding thermal resistance k a saturation conductivity of the ON state electrode thermal conductivity k a critical activating temperature T a filament temperature a power threshold a simulated ON switching curve and or a simulated OFF switching curve.

The present invention relates to methods to operate e.g. use characterize or process a memristor. Memristors include one or more nanoscale conduction channels or filaments disposed within an insulator and disposed between two electrodes e.g. between an active electrode and an inert electrode . The filament is conductive and thus when fully formed between the electrodes provides a low resistance state or an ON state . In general memristors do not have a conductive filament in the as fabricated state. Usually one or more electroforming steps are performed by exposing the memristor to an initial DC voltage stress which induces dielectric breakdown across the insulator and forms a conductive path through the insulator.

Memristors display unique electrical properties. For instance i iii shows schematics of an exemplary memristor having a filament disposed within an insulator and between two electrodes. This filament is shown schematically i iii as well as in corresponding current voltage I V measurements e.g. an I V loop in iv vi and power resistance P R measurements e.g. a P R loop in vii ix . Redrawing the I V hysteresis loop in terms of P R coordinates provides a more convenient basis than radius and conductivity. Starting from the high resistance state positive polarity on the reactive top electrode causes a filament to increase conductivity i iv vii until saturation. Further increasing power with positive polarity causes the radius to increase ii v viii and reversing polarity causes conductivity to decrease iii vi ix . In this way filament state and device state can be set by controlling the applied power and polarity and then deduced from correlated I V and P R measurements.

Electrical data e.g. I V and P R measurements can be directly converted between current voltage and power resistance coordinates via the following equations Eq. 9a and Eq. 9b where P is power I is current V is voltage and R is resistance. The physical process occurring within the device during switching is described in Mickel P R et al. 2014 26 4486 90 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

By progressing through the I V hysteresis loop iv vi the filament displays different geometry e.g. filament radius r and composition e.g. conductivity see i iii . Thus by progressing through the I V loop filament formation can be tuned and controlled. When filament geometry and composition e.g. radius rand conductivity are used as state variables employed to store information then filament formation is called the writing or SET step. In addition when the state variables provide measurable storage coordinates e.g. a coordinate include one or more of resistance R current I voltage V or power P then determining these storage coordinates or parameters is called the READ step.

As seen in radius rand conductivity are two separate state variables that can be represented by a P R measurement R P . By varying the positive power and negative power sequentially various rand combinations can be set for the filament. For a first configuration applying power with a positive polarity on the reactive electrode sets the filament radius r. In one embodiment this power is applied by using current sourced ON switching. For instance increasing positive current inert electrode grounded is applied thereby decreasing resistance and injecting oxygen vacancies from the reactive electrode until the concentration saturates. After saturation further increases in positive current results in increasing the radius of the saturated region. When current is applied to a first desired stopping point P the filament radius ris set left .

To set conductivity power with an opposite polarity is applied on the reactive electrode. In one embodiment this power is applied by using voltage sourced OFF switching. For instance increasing negative voltage is applied thereby increasing resistance and drawing oxygen vacancies back into the reactive electrode. Further increases in negative current result in decreasing conductivity. When voltage is applied to a first desired stopping point P the filament conductivity is set left . By progressing through the P R loop and stopping at desired stopping points e.g. Pand P the desired configuration for the filament is set center where the configuration of the first filament includes a combination of .

In some embodiments current sourced ON switching is used to set the filament radius P IR with R decreasing whereas voltage sourced OFF switching is used to control the filament conductivity P V R with R increasing . In some non limiting instances power limited sourcing can be used for precision control as negative feedback decreases the applied power and self limits thermal activation guaranteeing precise freezing of resistive switching at the desired state variable values.

The filament can be read or characterized by generating a P R measurement for the device. In one instance a P R measurement includes a R P storage coordinate see right . In one embodiment the storage coordinate is measured by performing a sweep of applied power Pto the device and monitoring a resistance R of the device during the sweep wherein a change in resistance is indicated as the resistance setpoint R. In yet other embodiments the storage coordinate is measured by performing a series of applied power Pto the device and monitoring a resistance R of the device during the series. Other methods of determining P R measurements are described herein. The methods herein employ an isothermal model to determine the underlying state variables e.g. parameters such as any herein reflected in the measurable P R measurement or storage coordinate.

Switching of the memristor to ON and OFF states provides a conductive filament. As shown in the different states and switching can be represented on a P R coordinate system or an I V coordinate system. Memristor switching can be modeled as a thermally activated system. shows hysteresis curves having two different I V end points points B and C where the resistive switching was current limited for ON switching and voltage limited for OFF switching. Ideally memristors should display the canonical figure 8 switching curve as shown in the inset of . This canonical curve is rarely observed. Rather as seen in switching data usually display sharp end points suggesting a more dynamic process for filament switching.

The resistive switching curve and its dependence on each state variable is described by the following equation 

The models and its equations can be implemented in any useful manner. In one instance the method includes applying an isothermal model with a numerical model e.g. any herein such as in Examples 5 and 6 herein as well as in Lohn A J et al. Modeling of filamentary resistive memory by concentric cylinders with variable conductivity 2014 105 183511 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

The present method includes generating a power resistance P R measurement for the memristor device employing any useful monitoring apparatus e.g. a sourcemeter . P R measurements can be determined in any useful manner. In one example stored information is read by performing a sweep of applied power Pto the memristor device and monitoring a resistance R of the device during the sweep. In particular when a change in resistance indicated as the resistance setpoint R is observed the power Pproviding that Rgives the storage coordinate P and Ris R. In this example the P Rstorage coordinate is a power resistance measurement for the nfilament see e.g. . As described herein in some embodiments each storage coordinate Rand Pcorresponds to a unique combination of state variables e.g. r or any described herein.

In yet another embodiment a P R measurement can include a P R loop e.g. as seen in vii ix . Such a loop can be generated by performing a sweep or series of applied power Pto the device and monitoring a resistance R of the device during the sweep or series. In some instances a change in resistance is indicated as the resistance setpoint R. In yet other instances Pcorresponds to P and Rcorresponds to R. In some embodiments the sweep can include a continuous change of applied power P applied voltage V or applied current I. In other embodiments the series can include a plurality of pulses of applied power P voltage V or current I. The sweeps or series can be current limited voltage limited and or power controlled.

In other embodiments the P R measurement can be converted e.g. by employing Eq. 9a 9b from one or more resistance R current I or voltage V measurements. For instance a sweep or series of applied voltage Vor applied current Ican be performed to the device and a resistance R or a current I of the device can be monitored during the sweep or series.

The state of the device is controlled by the presence of the conductive filament which is created upon switching the device. In turn state variables describe one or more characteristics of the filament and each bit of information includes a combination of one or more state variables. Storage coordinates are measurable values and the value of the storage coordinates corresponds to particular state variables or particular combinations of state variables.

The device can be characterized by one or more measurable values such as a P R measurement e.g. a P R storage coordinate such as an R P for an nfilament or a P R loop an I V measurement e.g. an I V loop a resistance R a current I a voltage V or a power Pdetermined for each nfilament e.g. upon applying a pump voltage current or power as a sweep or a series of discrete pulses . In particular embodiments each storage coordinate e.g. a R P coordinate reflects two or more physical characteristics of a conductive filament within a memristor device.

Any useful state variable s or combinations of such variables may be employed. Exemplary state variables include a filament composition such as a filament conductivity for an nfilament a radial conductivity for an nfilament at a radial position e.g. where is any value between 0 i.e. at the center of the filament and r i.e. at the edge of the filament or a saturation conductivity of the ON state a geometry of the filament e.g. a filament radius rfor an nfilament a graded distribution of radii for filament having a concentric set of q filaments each having a radius of r a cylindrical filament having a radius r or a cone shaped filament having a base radius r a dynamic feature e.g. a power resistance angle for an nfilament a surrounding thermal resistance k e.g. electrode thermal conductivity k a critical activating temperature T a power threshold a simulated ON switching curve and or a simulated OFF switching curve.

Each state can be represented by one storage coordinate or a combination of a plurality of different storage coordinates such as an R P coordinate or a set of distinct R P coordinates i.e. a set of r p for each data curve. One or more of these storage coordinates may be employed to characterize a single bit of information.

Any useful memristors and arrays thereof may be employed. For instance the memristor can include a top electrode a bottom electrode and an insulator disposed between the top and bottom electrodes. In one embodiment the memristor includes a reactive electrode an inert electrode and an insulator disposed between the top and bottom electrodes . In another embodiment the memristor includes a reactive tantalum electrode an inert platinum electrode and a tantalum oxide insulator disposed between the top and bottom electrodes . The memristor can further include a third electrode disposed on top of the reactive electrode. Any useful architecture may be employed.

The methods herein can be employed for memristors formed from a broad range of materials. Exemplary memristors include bipolar switching memristors including those described in Yang J J et al. Memristive devices for computing 2013 January 8 13 24 Balatti S et al. 2013 25 1474 8 Burr G W 2008 July 52 4.5 449 64 Chang T et al. 2011 5 9 7669 76 U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 395 926 and 8 450 711 as well as U.S. Pub. Nos. 2011 0169136 and 2014 0027705 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety

Any useful insulator capable of transporting vacancies cations and or anions may be employed. Exemplary insulators include transition metal oxide TMO films containing mobile oxygen ions metal cations and or oxygen vacancies such as TiO TaO WO HfO ZrO SrTiO MoO NiO AlO AlNO and NbO. Other materials are described in Yang J J et al. 2013 January 8 13 24 and Wong H S P et al. Metal oxide RRAM 2012 June 100 6 1951 70 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Other insulators include MO where M is a transition metal e.g. a metal present in the resistive switching element and each of a and b is independently an integer of from 1 to 5. In other embodiments M is a transition metal e.g. any in groups IV X such as Ti Zr Hf V Nb Ta Mo W Tc Re Co Rh Ir Ni Pd or Pt . In yet other embodiments the insulator includes MO where M is a transition metal e.g. any in groups IV X such as Ti Zr Hf V Nb Ta Mo W Tc Re Co Rh Ir Ni Pd or Pt .

Electrodes can be formed from any useful material. In particular a conductive element serves as an electrode and is typically made from electrically conductive metals e.g. tungsten W tungsten nitride WN gold Au silver Ag copper Cu chromium Cr platinum Pt iridium Ir nickel Ni silicon Si silicon carbide SiC molybdenum Mo cobalt Co ruthenium Ru titanium Ti titanium nitride TiN titanium aluminum nitride TiAlN aluminum Al hafnium Hf strontium Sr tantalum Ta and tantalum nitride TaN as well as doped forms alloy forms amorphous forms crystalline forms and laminated forms thereof . Exemplary electrode pairs include an active electrode formed from an electrochemically active or oxygen reactive material e.g. Ta and an inert electrode formed from an electrochemically inert material e.g. Pt . Other non limiting electrochemically active or oxygen reactive materials include Ag Cu Ni Ta Hf Ti Sr or alloys and combined forms thereof such as CuTe SrRuO or TiN and electrochemically inert materials include W Pt Au Mo Co Cr Ru Ir doped Si poly Si TiW TiN or TaN.

The components of the device can be formed by any useful process. Exemplary processes include reactive sputtering sputtering chemical vapor deposition CVD pulse laser deposition PLD atomic layer deposition ALD gas cluster ion beam e.g. as described in U.S. Pub. No. 2012 0104347 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety photolithography lift off etching electron beam lithography spin coating dip coating spraying roller coating electroplating etc. As those skilled in the art will appreciate various alternative deposition methods may be useful in this regard which collectively include sputtering CVD atomic layer deposition ALD and evaporation. Additional processes and materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 129 133 Lohn A J et al. Optimizing TaOmemristor performance and consistency within the reactive sputtering forbidden region 2013 103 063502 Lohn A J et al. A CMOS compatible forming free TaOReRAM 2013 58 5 59 65 and Lohn A J et al. Stages of switching in tantalum oxide memristor 26 29 May 2013 in Monterey Calif. 4 pp. each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Memristors can be provided in any useful format and include any other useful components in any useful architecture e.g. serial and or parallel schemes . For instance an array e.g. a cross bar array can include a plurality of memristor devices where each device is electrically connected to a source and or a sourcemeter by a line. In one embodiment the array includes a plurality of devices connected electrically by one or more lines. In another embodiment the array includes a plurality of m devices and a plurality of m components each connected electrically by a word line a source line and a bit line. Exemplary components include a transistor e.g. a MOSFET an amplifier a decoder a capacitor a comparator a modulator a switch a diode or any other useful electrical component. Any useful number of components and lines may be present. For instance the array can include x y m devices including x bit lines y word lines and y source lines where each of x and y is an integer more than 1.

Filamentary memristive systems tune their resistance state through the modification of nanoscale conduction channels see e.g. Yang J J et al. Memristive devices for computing 2013 January 8 13 24 Waser R et al. Redox based resistive switching memories nanoionic mechanisms prospects and challenges 2009 21 25 26 2632 63 and Waser R et al. Nanoionics based resistive switching memories 2007 6 11 833 40 . Such memristive systems or memristors are leading candidates for the future of digital memory storage and are believed to enable entirely new approaches to circuitry and computation see e.g. Burr G W Overview of candidate device technologies for storage class memory 2008 July 52 4.5 449 64 Pickett M D et al. A scalable neuristor built with Mott memristors 2013 February 12 114 7 and Jo S H et al. Nanoscale memristor device as synapse in neuromorphic systems 2010 10 1297 301 .

Accordingly to realize this technological potential understanding the physical mechanisms that govern memristive switching has become a field of intense research see e.g. Waser R et al. 2009 21 25 26 2632 63 Strukov D B et al. The missing memristor found 2008 May 453 80 3 Mickel P R et al. A physical model of switching dynamics in tantalum oxide memristive devices 2013 102 223502 Lee M J et al. A fast high endurance and scalable non volatile memory device made from asymmetric TaO TaObilayer structures 2011 August 10 625 30 and Larentis S et al. Resistive switching by voltage driven ion migration in bipolar RRAM Part II Modeling 2012 September 59 9 2468 75 . However due to the limited contrast between the filament and its environment and because these phenomena occur at virtually inaccessible lengths scales characterizations have required formidable experimental effort thereby limiting physical understanding see e.g. Miao F et al. Continuous electrical tuning of the chemical composition of TaO based memristors 2012 6 3 2312 8 Miao F et al. Anatomy of a nanoscale conduction channel reveals the mechanism of a high performance memristor 2011 December 23 47 5633 40 and Kwon D H et al. Atomic structure of conducting nanofilaments in TiOresistive switching memory 2010 5 2 148 53 .

Transmission electron microscopy studies are the de facto characterization technique see e.g. Waser R et al. 2007 6 11 833 40 Lee M J et al. 2011 August 10 625 30 Miao F et al. 2011 December 23 47 5633 40 and Kwon D H et al. 2010 5 2 148 53 yet they typically provide only a single post mortem filament state snapshot. Furthermore despite its fundamental importance filament temperature evolution is all but unknown experimentally see e.g. Mickel P R et al. 2013 102 223502 Larentis S et al. 2012 September 59 9 2468 75 Strukov D B et al. Thermophoresis diffusion as a plausible mechanism for unipolar resistive switching in metal oxide metal memristors 2012 107 509 18 Strukov D B et al. Exponential ionic drift fast switching and low volatility of thin film memristors 2009 94 515 9 and Larentis S et al. Filament diffusion model for simulating reset and retention processes in RRAM 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 .

Here we demonstrate that filamentary resistive switching is an isothermal process and we present and experimentally validate a set of constitutive equations that provides the steady state solution for filamentary resistive switching. We show that the application of these equations to a single hysteresis loop provides a continuous and quantitatively accurate description of the evolution of the filament radius composition heat flow and temperature across the entire resistive switching range. Furthermore we show that this steady state solution applies to a large range of filamentary metal oxide RRAM switching materials and over almost all experimentally relevant time scales.

Canonical memristive systems as predicted by Chua Chua L O Memristor The missing circuit element 1971 September 18 5 507 19 and Chua L O et al. Memristive devices and systems 1976 February 64 2 209 23 modify their resistance state according to the history of applied voltage flux resulting in smoothly varying pinched current voltage I V hysteresis loops see inset of . However memristors based on nanoscale conducting filaments seldom display this canonical curvature. Thermal activation is widely believed to be central to resistive switching Strukov D B et al. 2009 94 515 9 and Larentis S et al. 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 and the onset of switching may be interpreted as the activation of drift diffusion by Joule heating. Decreasing voltage would thereby lower temperature below T freezing the resistance state and explaining the experimentally observed sharp I V end points circled points in which are absent in classical memristor theory inset .

Even more intriguing is that these sharp I V end points exist at all points throughout resistive switching. shows hysteresis curves measured on TaOmemristors where the resistive switching was current limited for ON switching and voltage limited for OFF switching fabrication details have been previously reported in Lohn A J et al. A CMOS compatible forming free TaOReRAM 2013 58 5 59 65 and Lohn A J et al. Optimizing TaOmemristor performance and consistency within the reactive sputtering forbidden region 2013 103 063502 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . The different I V end points apply significantly different Joule heat doses however each switching curve exhibits equally sharp transitions strongly implying that T Tat each switching point and that the resistive switching is an isothermal process. This suggests the presence of an unidentified negative feedback mechanism that balances the system near the thermal activation threshold.

To investigate this negative feedback process we developed a simplified heat flow model of a filamentary resistive switching device. In steady state Joule heat Q is generated uniformly in a cylindrical filament and flows out both vertically Q through the electrodes and radially Q through its surroundings see . Comparing the total Joule heat generation to the vertical heat flow allows determination of the radial filament surface temperature T see Example 2 herein for derivation 

Recent experimental evidence has suggested that resistive switching is mediated by filament radius modulations see e.g. Yang J J et al. 2013 January 8 13 24 Waser R et al. 2009 21 25 26 2632 63 Larentis S et al 2012 September 59 9 2468 75 . Considering this the negative sign in Eq. 1 reveals the temperature limiting mechanism for ON switching lowering resistance temperature decreases with increasing filament radius. This occurs due to the fact that core temperatures increase with radius and Q T. Thus Qincreases with a radius faster than heat generation and Q and as a result T therefore decreases freezing ion motion at a radius determined by the applied power.

OFF switching increasing resistance produces similarly sharp non Chuan I V end points see circled points in again suggesting that feedback balances the system at the edge of activation resulting in isothermal switching. Considering Eq. 1 this experimental observation ruled out filament radius changes as an OFF switching mechanism. Decreasing rincreases temperature resulting in positive feedback that would amplify rather than self limit filament temperature. It is highly unlikely that parameters such as the electrode or oxide thickness change substantially and reversibly during switching therefore Eq. 1 suggests that decreases in conductivity provide the self regulation of temperature for OFF switching. Importantly this suggests that bipolar operation is primarily driven by changes in two independent state variables radius r and conductivity .

To validate these hypotheses we must demonstrate that the filament surface temperature Tdecreases with increasing radius and decreasing conductivity resulting in a constant switching temperature. This is a daunting task as few if any experimental methods can measure the temperature of a nanoscale filament and TEM imaging typically provides only a snapshot of filament geometry and composition. However assuming isothermal switching and setting T T assuming all switching occurs with a constant isothermal radial surface temperature equal to the critical activating temperature Eq. 1 may be rewritten as a set of constitutive equations defining the system s response to power dissipation see Example 2 herein for derivation 

Only a single hysteresis loop is shown in however the model has successfully described a diverse set of fabricated devices with varying device structures oxide thicknesses 5 15 nm electrode materials Ta Pt TiN growth chambers and targets and areas 100 m to 350 nm . The physical fitting parameters had quite reasonable ranges over our set of test devices 8.5 nm

Here rand represent the maximum radius and conductivity throughout switching. However rand are free to vary during ON and OFF switching respectively. Therefore combining Eqs. 2a 2b with the known cylindrical resistance R d r provides a continuous description of the evolution of each of these parameters throughout the entire switching range i.e. Eq. 2a implicitly describes multi level resistance state setting by choosing a SET or RESET power any analog resistance value may be programmed . Importantly it should be emphasized that continuous characterizations of these parameters were previously prohibitively difficult r Miao F et al. 2012 6 3 2312 8 and Miao F et al. 2011 December 23 47 5633 40 if not experimentally impossible T k Strukov D B et al. 2012 107 509 18 and Larentis S et al. 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 .

In fact successful in situ characterization of filament geometry and composition during switching has only very recently been accomplished Park G S et al. In situ observation of filamentary conducting channels in an asymmetric TaO TaObilayer structure 2013 September 4 2382 and Chen J Y et al. Dynamic evolution of conducting nanofilament in resistive switching memories 2013 July 13 3671 7 . In contrast Eq. 2a provides a complete filament characterization using a single hysteresis curve.

Additionally it should be noted that the thermal conductivity reported for the electrodes is in fact an effective term that may take into account the thermal resistance of the entire vertical surrounding and could include effects from inter layer dielectrics substrates and vias. However as the total thermal resistance is in fact the most important factor we view this as a strength rather than a limitation of the model.

Surprisingly assuming the presence of bipolar motion due to drift and specifying when it is thermally allowed are all that is necessary to describe the state evolution and circumvents specifying additional complex microscopic mechanisms. However a qualitative physical depiction is still beneficial and provides such a depiction for multiple switching regimes.

During ON switching vacancies first flow in the hot center of a previously electroformed region and pile up due to the low solubility of O in an inert electrode . This process continues until a core filament reaches a uniform oxygen vacancy saturation concentration.

Next the vacancies flow toward the outer edges of the filament where the concentration is sub saturation . This process continues until the temperature falls below activation or the power required for continued switching diverges as the radius increases causing R R P per Eq. 2a .

During OFF switching vacancy saturation no longer limits ion motion and the filament is quasi uniformly depleted as vacancies leave vertically without replacement from the inert electrode . The effective conductivity decreases until the temperature falls below activation or all vacancies have left and R R. The depletion is described as quasi uniform because vacancies will leave the center of the filament where Tis reached first possibly leading to filament ruptures as predicted by Larentis et al. 2012 September 59 9 2468 75. A discussion of when filament ruptures occur during OFF switching is provided in Example 3 herein.

Prior to rupture current is subsequently diverted from these regions self limiting their thermal activation and leading to depletion in neighboring regions Eq. 2b applies most accurately once this process has stabilized . Finally because OFF states are experimentally less resistive than virgin devices it is highly likely that some permanent oxygen vacancy locations remain .

Also shown in is a fit to the constitutive equation presented here Eq. 2a . The constitutive equation reproduced the empirical trend at high resistance and shows improved agreement at lower resistance. The departure from the empirical fit at low resistance resulted from the breakdown of the constant voltage approximation in that range. Since Eq. 2a analytically determined the set voltage this departure was accurately predicted and could be physically understood. Reproduction of the empirical relation and the agreement with multiple switching materials suggested a universal applicability of Eqs. 2a 2b to a wide range of filamentary resistive switches.

The constitutive equations derived herein assume a time independent temperature during switching and therefore only describe resistive switching that occurs slower than thermal steady state. compares 10 ns switching data digitized from Strachan J P et al. Measuring the switching dynamics and energy efficiency of tantalum oxide memristors 2011 22 50 505402 with fits to Eq. 2a demonstrating strong quantitative agreement and suggesting thermal steady state is achieved at sub nanosecond time scales.

In conclusion we derived and experimentally verified a set of constitutive equations that govern steady state filamentary memristive switching. These equations identified and explained the self limiting thermal physics which controls both ON and OFF isothermal switching. We demonstrated that applying these equations to a single hysteresis loop allows any researcher with a voltage current sourcemeter to characterize the internal structure and evolution of the conducting filament throughout the entire switching process with a continuous description of its composition radius surrounding thermal resistance and temperature. Additionally the analytical nature of the solution provides a compact and efficient method to explore device performance dependencies on design parameters. And finally these steady state constitutive equations were shown to apply to a large range of filamentary resistive switching materials and over almost all technologically experimentally relevant time scales.

To gain further insight into the governing thermal physics and explore this phenomenon we developed a first principles heat flow model. In steady state Joule heat is generated uniformly in a cylindrical conducting filament and flows out both vertically through the electrodes and radially through the surrounding oxide Q IV Q Q see .

In steady state Joule heat is generated uniformly in a cylindrical conducting filament and flows out both vertically through the electrodes and radially through the surrounding oxide Q IV Q Qr. Integrating vertical heat determines Q but requires knowledge of the temperature profile within the filament. Solving the heat equation in cylindrical coordinates as a function of radius r Incropera FP Fundamentals of Heat and Mass Transfer 6th ed. 2002 John Wiley Sons and with uniform heat generation gives the following 

Approximating the local circumflex over z thermal conductance as dG kdA d where dis the electrode thickness kis the thermal conductivity of the electrode dA is a differential area of the filament and Tis room temperature we calculate the total circumflex over z heat flow as follows 

With Qand Qknown Qcan be used to determine the radial surface temperature via a radial thermal resistance T T QR. Defining r as the radius where T T Rmay be calculated as R ln r r 2 dk where dand kare the thickness and thermal conductivity of the oxide respectively.

This simplification has important physical significance. In calculating Rwe have ignored vertical heat flow in the surrounding oxide and determining the value of ris difficult. However this simplification makes the functional form of Rand choice of rirrelevant as they fall out of the equation completely.

By solving Eq. 7 for Vand dividing by the resistance of the cylindrical filament R d r Eq. 7 relates the power dissipated in the cylindrical filament to its electrical resistance IV V R 

For ON switching the filament has constant conductivity and a varying radius therefore using the device resistance to represent the filament radius r d R we find as follows 

For OFF switching the filament has constant radius and a varying conductivity therefore using the device resistance to represent the filament conductivity a d rR we find as follows 

Filament ruptures have been observed in TEM experiments as well as predicted by finite element simulations. In contrast the model presented herein predicts a quasi uniform depletion of oxygen vacancies in the conducting filament as opposed to the localized depletion associated with ruptures. In fact the model presented here is consistent with ruptures and predicts them to occur however we believe this phenomenon takes place at much later stages of OFF RESET switching. Below we present a simple thermal electrical experiment that we believe clearly demonstrates this viewpoint in our data. The validity of this viewpoint can be tested by considering the difference in power required to switch the same filament configuration ON or OFF. shows schematics of the filament during ON state heating SET switching top schematic OFF state switching RESET switching center schematic and non rupture OFF heating bottom schematic .

It is widely believed that the conducting filament changes radius during ON SET switching. The important physical point to note is that in order for the radius to increase during the ON SET switching the entire filament must be thermally activated or equivalently it s surface temperature must reach T top schematic .

If it is true that OFF switching is dominated by ruptures then switching occurs only at the center of the filament where heating first occurs. The volume which has reached Tat the onset of resistive switching i.e. electrical resistance change would be approximately the volume shown in the center schematic in .

It is clear that the rupture driven OFF RESET switching scenario would require substantially less power as the filament is in an identical configuration but is only required to heat a fraction of the volume. However considering we see that the resistance state does not begin to change in OFF RESET switching until a power very close to that of the ON SET switching power. This means that the heating dose required to initiate resistive switching is the same as was required to heat the edge of the filament during ON switching and that vacancies in large volume of the filament are active during switching see bottom schematic .

Because the resistance state does not change until this power level is reached and because it is likely that a large portion of the filament can reach the activating temperature we may conclude that switching is likely not limited to the localized volume at the center of the filament as required by rupture driven OFF switching. However it is still true that at late stages of switching ruptures may occur.

To demonstrate the robustness of the model we have fit Eq. 2a to multiple different devices with varying properties and structures. shows the results of these fits and Table 1 shows the fitting parameters resulting from each fit.

The device fit in is the device discussed in Example 1 i.e. a Pt TaO Ta Pt device . The device in is a neighboring device on of the same wafer demonstrating that similar devices have similar switching properties and fitting parameters. The device in is a device with an inverted stack Pt Ta TaO Pt . Finally the device in is a CMOS compatible TiN TaO Ta device complete with metallic vias and an ILD layer which is fully CMOS compatible. As can be seen the resistive model accurately described the switching behavior of devices formed from different materials and different structures.

We demonstrate a method for simulating memristors resistive random access memories where the filament is modeled as a set of nanoscale or sub nanoscale concentric cylinders each having its own conductivity. This approach allows for the inclusion of multiple state variables which we have experimentally observed to control electrical behavior such as thresholding and learning rate. The simulations accurately reproduce the I V hysteresis loop as well as these more complex experimental behaviors resulting from more intricate switching histories. The models can be used in both static and dynamic simulations and are based upon physical design parameters such that optimized values from simulations can be easily linked to device design.

Memristors or resistive random access memories RRAM change their resistance in a non volatile manner in response to applied electrical signal see e.g. Yang J J et al. Memristive devices for computing 2013 January 8 13 24 and Mickel P R et al. Memristive switching Physical mechanisms and applications 2014 April 28 10 1430003 . They are promising as non volatile memories due to excellent speed size power consumption and endurance see e.g. Torrezan A C et al. Sub nanosecond switching of a tantalum oxide memristor 2011 22 48 485203 Lohn A J et al. Analytical estimations for thermal crosstalk retention and scaling limits in filamentary resistive memory 2014 115 234507 Strachan J P et al. 2011 22 50 505402 and Lee M J et al. 2011 August 10 625 30 but their electrical behavior is novel in passive circuit elements and is therefore unfamiliar to most circuit designers.

Despite their relative youth these devices have already prompted significant interest and promise in applications such as threshold logic and neuromorphic computing see e.g. Rajendran J et al. An energy efficient memristive threshold logic circuit 2012 April 61 4 474 87 Gao L et al. Programmable CMOS memristor threshold logic 2013 January 12 2 115 9 Pershin Y V et al. Experimental demonstration of associative memory with memristive neural networks 2010 23 881 6 Jo S H et al. 2010 10 1297 301 and Lohn A J et al. Memristors as synapses in artificial neural networks Biomimicry beyond weight change in 2014 61 135 50 .

In order to make progress in developing these circuits and to create new circuits that utilize the novel properties of these devices good computational simulators are needed. Although many memristive or RRAM simulators exist see e.g. Kvatinsky S et al. TEAM ThrEshold adaptive memristor model 2013 January 60 1 211 21 Li H et al. A SPICE model of resistive random access memory for large scale memory array simulation 2014 February 35 2 211 3 Biolek Z et al. SPICE model of memristor with nonlinear dopant drift 2009 June 18 2 210 4 and Abdalla H et al. SPICE modeling of memristors held on 15 18 May 2011 in Rio de Janeiro pp. 1832 5 a satisfactory solution has not been presented. Many of these simulators are based on the idealized memristor equations see e.g. Chua L O 1971 September 18 5 507 19 and therefore do not capture important features of real devices such as thresholding and bounded resistance ranges see e.g. Nardi F et al. Resistive switching by voltage driven ion migration in bipolar RRAM Part I Experimental study 2012 September 59 9 2461 7 and Lohn A J et al. 2013 103 173503 . We are not presently aware of any model outside of full finite element simulation Larentis S et al. 2012 September 59 9 2468 75 capable of incorporating multiple state variables which have been shown experimentally to significantly alter device behavior Lohn A J et al. Degenerate resistive switching and ultrahigh density storage in resistive memory arXiv 1406.4033 cond mat.mtrl sci accessible from arxiv.org abs 1406.4033 .

Additionally convergence can be a problem for some of the simulators making the simulation of large scale circuits such as crossbar arrays impossible. Finally an ideal simulator would be based on physical parameters so that optimal properties identified in the simulation can be communicated directly to the fabrication team to accelerate real device circuit and system development. Here we present a computationally compact simulator based on physical design parameters. The simulator is capable of reproducing the complex switching characteristics that arise from complex switching histories.

A recent analytical model was developed that provides the steady state solution for memristive switching as a function of applied power see e.g. Examples 1 and 2 herein as well as Mickel P R et al. 2014 26 4486 9 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . The model also identified additional state variables that can be used to control electrical characteristics such as the switching threshold. This steady state approach has been validated for even the fastest data recorded to date so a time varying output can be accurately calculated from a time varying input signal by finding the steady state solution at every step in time. This approach greatly simplifies the simulation by eliminating the need to specify a time dependence for the memristor response and by eliminating the associated integration required to calculate the memristance.

In one example the simulator or model included a set of concentric rings referred to as shells as shown in . Each shell had its own resistance and the total device resistance was calculated as the parallel sum of the individual shell resistances. Each shell had a variable quantity that was meant to represent the concentration of oxygen vacancies. The conductivity of each shell was calculated from the concentration variable C and the applied voltage V as a weighted sum of an Ohmic term and a Poole Frenkel term which provides a nonlinear conduction mechanism 

In real devices the concentration of oxygen vacancies cannot exceed some saturation value which results in a corresponding saturation conductivity Larentis S et al. 2012 September 59 9 2468 75 that can be measured electrically via a hysteresis loop see e.g. Example 1 herein and Mickel P R et al. 2014 26 4486 90 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

In our simulations we normalized the conductivity of the Ohmic term to the saturation conductivity. The Poole Frenkel term was fit to the completely switched OFF state with the concentration variable set to the minimum concentration value thereby identifying the coefficients a and b as follows Eq. 12 . Then the conductivity of each shell was calculated from Eq. 11 in which the concentration variable C is allowed to vary.

Allowing the conductivity of each shell to change by modulating its concentration value led to resistance changes in the device. Deciding which shells were allowed to change and by how much was the primary objective of the simulation. The analytical model described herein provided the limiting expressions for both ON and OFF switching. At powers less than those specified in Eq. 13 the temperature inside the device was too low to allow for ionic motion and no switching occurred 

Eq. 13 can be written in a simplified form for ON and OFF switching as shown in Eqs. 14a and 14b respectively 

During ON switching vacancies enter the filament in the center where temperature and therefore ionic mobility is highest until the central region saturates see e.g. . Continued injection of vacancies forces the saturated region to expand since it is not possible for them to be incorporated in the already saturated region. In the simulation ON switching progressed by increasing the number of saturated shells starting from the center until Eq. 14a was satisfied. If the power supplied was less than the right hand side of Eq. 14a then insufficient power was being supplied to achieve thermal activation and allowed ions to move.

During OFF switching if sufficient power was supplied then the region of highest concentration became thermally activated and the concentration of vacancies within that entire region decreased until the power was no longer sufficient for continued switching. The condition for OFF switching power is given in Eq. 14b.

To summarize for ON switching the number of saturated shells was incremented until Eq. 14a was satisfied. For OFF switching the concentration of the group of shells with the highest concentration was decremented until the Eq. 14b was satisfied.

For comparison to experiment we used CMOS compatible TaOx based RRAM devices Lohn A J et al. 2013 58 5 59 65 and Lohn A J et al. 2013 103 063502 . Values for k and Twere identified from fitting to the ON switching data as described herein and as shown in the inset of . The Poole Frenkel a and b parameters were fit from the OFF state e.g. using Eq. 12 . All other parameters were known from the fabrication process. All parameters were included in the simulation code provided in Example 6 along with the code used to extract them from the I V data.

As seen in the simulation was able to reproduce the I V hysteresis loop with reasonable accuracy in terms of the resistance values for ON and OFF states the threshold values for ON and OFF switching and the range of resistance states throughout switching. The data are also shown in P R coordinates which are the more natural frame for Eqs. 13 and 14a 14b.

Three regions in stood out as being inexact. The first is the nonlinear conductivity of the OFF state. As described earlier the Poole Frenkel mechanism may not be the most appropriate physics and we have ignored substantial self heating. However this approach is simple and sufficiently accurate for most applications.

Second the negative sloping region at the start of ON switching was not captured exactly. That region corresponds to increases in concentration prior to reaching the saturation concentration of the core region Lohn A J et al. Mechanism of electrical shorting failure mode in resistive switching 2014 116 034506 which is not included in this simulation. That behavior can be included by allowing a group of core shells to increase concentration gradually instead of proceeding immediately to saturation. Such additional steps can add computational time and it is difficult to estimate the number of shells that constitute the core.

Third the discrepancy during OFF switching was due to an approximation made during simulation the simulation decrements conductivity uniformly but in a real device the conductivity will decrease from the center shells first. In addition their concentration will stay slightly lower than the rest of the decreasing filament. This concept is illustrated in the inset of where the radial conductivity profile is depicted for a simulated device solid line and depressed device dotted line as might be expected in reality. We refer to this difference as the uniformly decreasing concentration assumption UDCA . Although this approximation leads to inexact OFF switching behavior it is sufficiently accurate for most cases.

Interestingly in both the simulation and experiment there was noise during switching. During OFF switching the noise was controlled by the step size in the concentration variable. In contrast during ON switching it was controlled by the size of the shell radius. In there were 50 concentration steps which may be larger than in a real device leading to small noise in the simulation. The shell radius was set to 1 angstrom approximately atomic scale and the noise was comparable to experiment suggesting that the ON switching noise may be related to the atomic nature of radius expansion.

Demonstrating simple behavior e.g. where the device is cycled between consistent endpoints as in is a mandatory requirement of simulation. Another main benefit of this shell based approach was the ability to rapidly simulate more complex histories and behaviors. An example of this complex behavior is shown in where partial OFF and ON switching is used to create new features in the current voltage relation. The conductivity profile of the filament following each half cycle is also provided as insets throughout the progression to show how the device configuration evolves. In this example a device with a particularly poor UDCA was chosen to illustrate the limitations of our approach.

In a simple hysteresis loop is shown where thresholding and resistance values are accurately replicated. However the exaggerated upward curl during OFF switching was not reproduced accurately because of the poor UDCA.

In a complicated history was developed by only partially OFF switching the device. Due to the difference in OFF switching behavior caused by the poor UDCA the simulator required slightly higher voltage to replicate the experiment but stills showed very similar behavior in at least a qualitative sense. Partial OFF switching also led to decreased nonlinearity seen in both experiment and simulation.

As shown in this complex history led to a change in threshold for ON switching and a clear bump in the OFF switching experiment. Both of these behaviors were captured well by the simulator in .

These complex switching characteristics arose because there was more than one state variable in both the real devices and the simulator. The radius of the filament was allowed to change but so did the conductivity of any region within that radius. The conductivity of each shell was a state variable and so very intricate behavior was created in real devices and represented with shell based simulation. These types of effects could be used to store large amounts of information in multi dimensional information spaces or to control thresholds or learning rates in neural systems.

The specific conductivity profiles for this series of configurations are shown as insets in but much more complicated profiles can be created to provide more interesting electrical behavior. In the case of the bump in OFF switching in the two level conductivity profile in the top inset of was the important characteristic. During OFF switching the inner section started switching first until its concentration decreased to the level of the outer section. At that point more power was required before switching can continue so the device was temporarily stabilized leading to the bump in the I V loop.

Often the goal of a device simulation is not to generate the current voltage relation but to study the output waveform for a given input waveform see e.g. Duan L et al. Periodicity and dissipativity for memristor based mixed time varying delayed neural networks via differential inclusions 2014 September 57 12 22 and Radwan A G et al. HP memristor mathematical model for periodic signals and DC held on 1 4 Aug. 2010 in Seattle Wash. pp. 861 4 . This is a difficult task for many simulators but was implemented with the steady state simulation described herein. An example is shown in where a sinusoid with increasing amplitude was used as the input signal to generate an experimental curve and a simulation . The experimental current was measured using a 100 series resistor. This experiment was conducted at very slow timescales 10 seconds period to illustrate the steady state nature of both the simulation and the experiment. As mentioned herein the equations used in this model have been validated for the fastest data recorded to date 1 ns so higher speed simulations are also possible though they may require increasing the value of the activation temperature slightly.

In summary a modeling approach was developed for simulating memristor or RRAM electrical behavior based on modulation of the oxygen concentration within a conducting filament composed of many concentric shells. This approach accurately reproduced simple electrical behavior such as the current voltage hysteresis loop and basic time varying responses but it was also able to reproduce much more complicated behavior. By allowing the conductivity of each shell to vary separately complex device histories and conductivity profiles were generated which led to intricate characteristics that were observed in corresponding experiments. Also since any change or optimization in the simulation was accomplished by changing physical design parameters e.g. such as thickness or thermal conductivity optimized parameters from simulation could be communicated directly to designers to help create a wide range of device properties electrical characteristics and even systems level designs.

The models herein can be implemented in any useful manner such as by employing a numerical simulator. As the equations rely on a steady state model time dependent simulations are not needed. Instead the simulator can rely on a set that spatially defines the evolving filament e.g. as a set of concentric cylinders or shells having different variables such as filament conductivity for a particular radius r where 0 r r where ris the maximum filament radius . Then based on this set saturation conductivity can be determined for each shell e.g. employing Eq. 11 herein ON switching can be progressed by increasing the number of saturated shells e.g. employing Eq. 14a OFF switching can be progressed by decreasing the concentration of shells with the highest concentration e.g. by employing Eq. 14b and the OFF state can be simulated by normalizing the conductivity of the Ohmic term to the saturation conductivity e.g. by employing Eq. 12 . An exemplary simulation Python code is accompanied with this application as a computer program listing appendix which is available in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Here we discuss the thermal effects on scaling retention and error rate in resistive memories from a theoretical perspective using an analytical approach. Starting from the heat equation we derived the temperature profile surrounding a resistive memory device and calculated its effect on neighboring devices. Then we determined the engineering tradeoffs that are expected with continued scaling such as retention and power use per device. Based on our calculations we expect scaling to continue well below ten nanometers but that the effect of heating from neighboring devices may need to be considered for some applications even at current manufacturing capabilities. In the following we address possible designs to alleviate some of these effects while further increasing device density.

Shrinking device dimensions have created powerful computers with immense storage capacity. This pace of progress has been the cornerstone of much technological and commercial development but has become increasingly difficult to continue. Particularly in memory new non transistor devices are being given substantial attention as a means to prolong this progress see e.g. Dieny B et al. Emerging non volatile memories magnetic and resistive technologies 2013 46 7 070301 Ielmini D Reliability issues and modeling of Flash and post Flash memory 2009 September July 86 7 9 1870 5 and Burr G W Overview of candidate device technologies for storage class memory 2008 July 52 4.5 449 64 .

Among the leading candidates is resistive random access memory RRAM or memristors because of their non volatility speed endurance low power operation and ability to store immense numbers of states in a single device see e.g. Wong H S P et al. Metal oxide RRAM 2012 June 100 6 1951 70 Mickel P R et al. Memristive switching Physical mechanisms and applications 2014 April 28 10 1430003 Yang J J et al. Memristive devices for computing 2013 8 1 13 24 Torrezan A C et al. Sub nanosecond switching of a tantalum oxide memristor 2011 22 48 485203 Lee M J et al. A fast high endurance and scalable non volatile memory device made from asymmetric TaO TaObilayer structures 2011 July 10 625 30 Strachan J P et al. Measuring the switching dynamics and energy efficiency of tantalum oxide memristors 2011 22 505402 and Lohn A J et al. Degenerate resistive switching and ultrahigh density storage in resistive memory 2014 105 103501 2014 . They have also been shown to operate at very small device dimensions 

Understanding the limits of these filaments and the interactions between neighboring filaments is critical to understanding the ultimate scaling potential and the device performance tradeoffs associated with continued miniaturization. This understanding is difficult to achieve experimentally because the active regions are nanometers in dimensions switching occurs on sub nanosecond timescales and they are necessarily encased in an electrode material. In this Example we adopt an analytical approach to describe the filament and its surrounding region leading to insights about engineering tradeoffs such as scaling retention and power consumption.

Recently an analytical framework was introduced that provides a detailed description of the properties of the conducting filament including its radius composition and its thermal properties see e.g. Examples herein as well as Mickel P R et al. Isothermal switching and detailed filament evolution in memristive systems 2014 26 4486 90 . This analytical framework can guide the design of devices such as to optimize device dimensions heat flow and temperatures within and surrounding the device. These temperatures can determine the retention of the device itself and for dense memory arrays the temperature surrounding the device may affect the retention of neighboring devices due to thermal cross talk Strukov D B et al. Exponential ionic drift fast switching and low volatility of thin film memristors 2009 94 3 515 9 .

The analytical framework is summarized in the following equations that are derived for a cylindrical conducting filament 

There are at least three different types of radii that must be considered within the device. They are depicted in and are referred to as filament radius r operating radius r and maximum radius r. The maximum radius ris the most easily understood. It is the largest radius that a device is able to achieve. It corresponds to the minimum resistance that has been observed experimentally Lohn A J et al. Dynamics of percolative breakdown mechanism in tantalum oxide resistive switching 2013 103 17350 and predicted theoretically by the following equations 

These equations also define values for the minimum and maximum resistances that can be achieved in filamentary resistive switching. These two values bound the resistance but do not indicate a lower bound on device dimension. They do however lead to an upper bound for the filament radius r as can be derived from Eq. 15a 

Since it is not necessary for the RRAM device to operate at the minimum possible resistance i.e. at r the value of ris not necessarily an indication of the device size. It is likely that RRAM devices in most applications will choose to operate at much smaller radii for reasons other than the obvious scaling advantages. Operating at its maximum radius may lead to sacrifices in device performance as will be discussed later. Instead we define an operating radius rthat can be designed for and used in our expressions to estimate device performance. A simple way to think about the operating radius is that it is the radius at which the conductivity is high enough that particularly in the high resistance state current conduction contributes to heat generation in the device. The radius of this region is often determined by the forming step and remains at a slightly elevated conductivity even after OFF switching resistance increasing as evidenced by the decreased resistance of the OFF state as compared to the as deposited film. In addition ris not necessarily the same as the filament radius r which we define as the radius of the dominant conduction pathway.

When the device resistance is decreased a region of high conductivity forms within the device which can be smaller than the operating radius. The edge of this region is the filament radius r which we define as the radius of the dominant conduction pathway. In order to keep the radius well below the maximum radius the forming power and subsequent ON switching resistance reduction powers should all be kept low to suppress increases in the radius during operation. It is worth mentioning that this theory was developed using TaO based devices for which the vacancy concentration is believed to be continuously tunable. In devices where changing vacancy concentration involves phase changes between specific metastable states the conductivities may become discretized but similar definitions for radius should be applicable.

Using the above definitions for radii we developed expressions for a large number of device properties. To provide reasonable and approximate values we used parameters measured from the CMOS compatible devices fabricated in our laboratory Lohn A J et al. A CMOS compatible forming free TaOReRAM 2013 58 5 59 65 and Lohn A J et al. Optimizing TaOmemristor performance and consistency within the reactive sputtering forbidden region 2013 103 063502 . The maximum radius can be calculated from Eq. 16 by combining the minimum resistance value and r which using the analytical framework derived in herein can be measured from a current voltage sweep of the device. For our devices the maximum radius was approximately 11 nm. It seems intuitive that one would attempt to decrease the maximum radius to improve scaling but we argue that is not a good approach.

It should be stated clearly that the maximum radius is not a bound on the scaling of the device it is a point in which further scaling may require implementing limits on the operating range i.e. it is not necessary to operate up to the maximum radius during switching . Altering design parameters to reduce the maximum radius is possible but could lead to sacrifices in performance.

The impact of altering design parameters in Eq. 16 T d and or d k on the maximum radius is shown in . The parameters were varied by a factor ranging from to 3 of their initial value. This range of controllable variability may not be achievable for all of the parameters but the same range is shown for ease of comparison. Also since changes in any one of the four parameters had the same effect on r shows the effect of combining parameters i.e. the effect of changing 1 2 3 or all 4 parameters simultaneously . indicates that for increased scaling i.e. decreased device dimension each of the design parameters should be decreased but we argue that this is not true. It is not necessary to operate the device at the full maximum possible radius and we would like to state that for improved performance these design parameters should often be modulated in the opposite way.

From a device performance perspective a primary concern for RRAM implementation is reduction of power consumption or the ability to have large fan in which both often requires increasing the resistance of the device. Reducing the operating radius is a straightforward and effective approach to achieving that goal because the maximum resistance R is inversely proportional to the fourth power of the operating radius as seen in Eq. 15b. It is important to note that this maximum resistance is measured at the switching voltage.

Due to nonlinearity in the current voltage relation the maximum resistance at the READ voltage is likely to be much higher. Here we refer to the maximum resistance with the understanding that it is measured at the SET voltage. This maximum resistance is shown in for which the design parameters in Eq. 15b were varied from to 3 times their initial value. It can be seen that increasing the design parameters T d and or d k improved performance in terms of large maximum resistance values and that operating at radii less than ralso increased maximum resistance. This is in contrast to the result in Eq. 16 and where increasing the same parameters resulted in increased r. This is an example of how designing to decrease rwould sacrifice device performance but this is not an engineering tradeoff because one can simply operate the device at radii less than rand also benefit in performance e.g. higher resistance .

Aside from increasing device resistance there are many other performance metrics of interest including increasing the ratio of OFF state to ON state resistances. The R Rratio can be expressed as follows 

Ultimately the filament radius is likely to be only one factor in determining the density limits of RRAM. Large amounts of heat are generated within the filaments and that heat will have the potential to alter the device state itself or the state of its neighbors as it flows radially. The radial temperature profile T r was determined by the radial flow of heat from the filament and the rate at which heat can escape vertically through the electrodes or other encasing materials as characterized by its thermal conductance component k. Including vertical heat loss qinto the steady state heat equation gave the following 

Then dividing Eq. 19 by the differential volume of the oxide region from which heat is being lost provided the following 

Mathematically decreases in the prefactor k kdd from Eq. 21c resulted in a wider temperature profile. Physically increasing vertical thermal conductivity allowed more heat to escape such that it does not contribute to the elevated radial temperatures. These elevated radial temperatures could potentially affect the state of neighboring devices if those devices are in close proximity. By treating the device retention and error rate as having Arrhenius behavior we described the stability of the devices in the presence of self heating and thermal crosstalk.

The Arrhenius equation describes the exponential temperature dependence of thermally activated processes such as ionic motion see e.g. Wei Z et al. Retention model for high density ReRAM 4 held on 20 23 May 2012 in Milan pp. 1 4 and Larentis S et al. Filament diffusion model for simulating reset and retention processes in RRAM 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 . We compared the retention of a device that is heated by its neighbor to the retention of the same device without heating. We did so by dividing the Arrhenius rate equation evaluated at room temperature by the Arrhenius rate equation evaluated at a temperature as a function of the radius 

The retention ratio is shown in for the same devices described in . shows the effect of thermal crosstalk on retention ratio or equivalently inverse error rate as a function of distance from a neighboring device that is held constant at the switching temperature. This type of operation condition is not a likely scenario for most applications and acceptable retention times will vary widely between specific applications but the device design can be easily matched to operational specifications by combining the local temperature Eq. 21a 21c with the Arrhenius equation Eq. 22 .

The effect of thermal crosstalk is most likely to increase resistance because the high concentration of vacancies in the filament is unstable without the effect of the driving field that was used to inject them. For that reason the ON state low resistance state may be particularly susceptible to thermal crosstalk.

Examples of designing for thermal crosstalk are shown in where the retention ratio defined in Eq. 22 is shown for varied design parameters that influence the temperature profile outside the filament. The retention ratio was measured at a location 30 nm from the center of a 5 nm neighboring filament and at a location 20 nm from the center of an 8 nm neighboring filament . The neighboring filaments were held constant at the switching temperature. The parameters were varied between and 3 times their initial values which were T 1500 K T 358 K k 1 W mK d 10 nm d 50 nm and k 5 W mK. Since the radii were varied to values comparable to and larger than the test location the retention ratio or inverse error rate became very low for large radii. The specific values for optimized performance will depend greatly on the application and design constraints but is a demonstration of how Eqs. 21a 21c and 22 can be combined to provide design insight regarding thermal crosstalk.

In the context of designing devices to meet scaling specifications it is worth discussing a few of the engineering tradeoffs that are likely to be encountered as scaling continues. Perhaps the most relevant is between device density and energy consumption per device. As discussed above when thermal crosstalk becomes a limiting design consideration increasing the thermal conduction in the vertically direction is a good approach to decreasing radial temperatures and enabling larger device densities. Unfortunately this approach led to increased power required to maintain Twithin the filament because heat escaped more efficiently. This in turn led to higher switching power and likely higher switching voltage.

An alternate approach with the same tradeoff involves designing or selecting materials with increased Tto increase device density. That change would also lead to increased power requirements as more heat would be required to reach the higher Tvalue. In increasing Tled to decreased retention or increased error rates but that figure is normalized by the retention of an isolated device. Thus although retention increased normalized retention i.e. retention ratio decreased. In most cases absolute retention is the performance metric and not relative retention so the device density could be increased as a result of this added stability but at the cost of increased power.

It may be possible to avoid some of these tradeoffs by designing the devices and their surroundings so as to guide heat flow. By separating the devices laterally with a thermally resistive interlayer dielectric ILD it may be possible to reduce both energy consumption and the extent of lateral temperatures provided that the interlayer dielectric can both hold heat in the filament and suppress the ratio of radial to vertical heat flow between devices. This effect can be further improved by using thermally conductive material or interfaces in the vertical direction between devices.

Other approaches to modulating heat flow can be imagined for increasing power efficiency as well as device scaling. Controlling heat flow in the vertical direction will also have an impact on the device itself not just its neighbors. Careful design of the devices may be able to improve power efficiency and scaling. One possible approach involves the use of temperature dependent thermal conductivities and has the additional advantages of decreasing the risk of perturbations caused during a READ operation or due to the half select problem in crossbar arrays. During the non pertubative resistance READ a device will experience significant Joule heating that will eventually degrade the state of the device. The same effect is particularly prevalent in a device that is half selected in a crossbar type architecture. For a device that is constantly at a READ voltage and where temperature is proportional to the applied power the above definition of retention ratio or inverse error rate yields as follows 

For a continuously half selected device with a critical temperature of 1500 C. and an ambient temperature of 300K the error rate increases by an order of magnitude 12.2 compared to a device that is never half selected. For the READ operation of a device with the same critical and ambient temperatures being constantly read at 20 of the turn on voltage i.e. 100 mV READ for a 0.5 V turn ON device the retention is almost halved when compared to a device that is never read. This effect is shown in highlighting retention loss at the half select and 20 READ voltages.

The above derivation ignores possible electric field effects that may contribute to retention in partially selected devices. Our results and calculations indicate that the thermal dependence dominates the ionic motion and that the field effects can be ignored over a wide range of conditions. The field dependence of ionic motion could easily be included by adding a hyperbolic sine factor that is also thermally activated Strukov D B et al. 2009 94 515 9 and Cabrera N et al. Theory of the oxidation of metals 1949 12 163 84 .

The derivation of Eq. 23 also assumes that all thermal conductivities are temperature independent but that is not a requirement for device design. A vertical thermal conductivity that is inversely related to temperature would allow heat to escape more efficiently at low temperatures than at high temperatures thereby decreasing the temperature on a device during READ or half select. The exponential dependence of activation on temperature indicates that even seemingly small changes in the temperature dependence of thermal conductivity can have significant impact on retention.

Designing electrodes with inverse temperature dependence should be possible. Many electrode materials including copper and tungsten have this property intrinsically but common RRAM electrodes such as platinum tantalum and titanium exhibit the opposite behavior see e.g. Powell R W et al. Thermal conductivity of selected materials National Standard Reference Data Series National Bureau of Standards 8 Category 5 Thermodynamic and Transport Properties 1966 U.S. Gov t Printing Office Washington D.C. 175 pp. and Savchenko I V et al. Thermal conductivity and thermal diffusivity of tantalum in the temperature range from 293 to 1800 K 2008 December 15 4 679 82 which exacerbates the effect in .

Titanium nitride TiN which is a common electrode in CMOS compatible processing is even more complicated because the phonon contribution to thermal conductivity increases rapidly with temperature Taylor R E et al. Thermal conductivity of titanium carbide zirconium carbide and titanium nitride at high temperatures 1964 February 47 2 69 73 . The total thermal conductivity for TiN decreases over a wide range of temperatures but then increases between 1300 C. and 1800 C. Shackelford J F et al. Table 104 Thermal conductivity of ceramics 3rd ed. CRC Press 2001 which is in the expected range of transition temperatures.

In addition to selecting favorable metals defect structure can be used to provide thermal conductivity that decreases with increasing temperature Ju S H et al. Investigation on interfacial thermal resistance and phonon scattering at twist boundary of silicon 2013 113 053513 for increasing retention. Highly doped silicon also has a favorable dependence of thermal conductivity on temperature Stranz A et al. Thermoelectric properties of high doped silicon from room temperature to 900 K 2013 July 42 7 2381 7 and may be an interesting choice for electrode material.

In summary we provided a theoretical justification for device scaling well into the single digit nanometer lateral dimensions without specifying a hard lower limit. We also showed that as device densities are increased their thermal interactions will become increasingly important and we derived analytical expressions for the temperature profile outside of a conducting filament. We used that temperature profile to determine the related effects on retention and error rates of neighboring devices and described in analytical detail the retention effects of reading devices and of the potential half select problem. We proposed designs to reduce thermal cross talk thereby increasing device density and we suggested a class of electrode materials that not only increase device density but can help to increase retention in devices that are frequently read or half selected. Our results discuss several engineering tradeoffs that may need to be considered in highly scaled and densely packed devices but we believe that RRAM scaling can continue well beyond the capabilities of current commercial manufacturing technologies.

All publications patents and patent applications including U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 866 690 filed Aug. 16 2013 mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

