---

title: Voice recognition for performing authentication and completing transactions in a systems interface to legacy systems
abstract: A user is provided with access to a systems interface to back-end legacy systems using voice inputs. The user dials-in to the voice server using an access device. A voice recognition server performs voice authentication, speech recognition, and speech synthesis. The voice server authenticates the user based on a voice exemplar provided by the user. Using speech synthesis, the voice server provides a menu of operations from which the user can select. By speaking into the access device, the user selects an operation and provides any additional data needed for the operation. Using speech recognition, the voice server prepares a user request based on the spoken user input. The user request is forwarded to the systems interface to the legacy systems. The systems interface includes a protocol server for providing a protocol interface and a transaction server for receiving user requests and generating legacy transactions. The systems interface retrieves information from the legacy systems based on the user request and forwards this information to the voice server. The voice server formats the information and outputs the information to the access device as speech and/or text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264906&OS=09264906&RS=09264906
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09264906
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150422
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 480 219 filed on Sep. 8 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 892 665 filed Jun. 28 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 831 949 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to the field of telecommunications dispatching and more particularly to methods and apparatus for providing user friendly authentication and access to a systems interface to legacy systems.

Telecommunications technicians such as so called Installation and Maintenance I M technicians may visit customer sites to install new equipment set up new services or to service existing equipment or services. Frequently I M technicians need certain information stored on back end legacy systems to perform a job order. The legacy systems may include dispatch facilities and billing systems. The legacy systems may store information such as job assignment facility assignment network testing functions maintenance processes and customer specific information.

A typical telephone company for example can have a number of such back end legacy systems that I M technicians may need to access to perform job orders. These legacy systems can include for example a loop facility assignment control system a loop maintenance operations system a computer system for main frame operations a mechanized loop testing system a secure network element contract server a mechanized time reporting system and a work activity statistical sampling plan system. Other back end legacy and non legacy systems may exist.

According to a previous approach technicians could access some information from certain legacy systems using a gateway. For example BellSouth s I M technicians use the BellSouth Craft Access System CAS gateway. However access using the gateway had significant limitations. The access was dial up meaning that the technician often had to tie up a customer s phone line. Additionally logging in and accessing data using CAS was a slow laborious process. For example CAS access was sometimes provided via Computer Access Terminals CATs using a slow 1.2 kbps connection. Because of the drawbacks of CAS such as its slow speed the provision of services by I M technicians was suboptimal because of delays and impediments to getting the information necessary to complete a job order. In addition CAS was very difficult to improve. The platform did not lend itself to creating new capabilities due to limited memory and low processor speed.

Moreover I M technicians often have poor or suboptimal keyboard skills. Technicians seeking information from legacy system interfaces such as CAS sometimes make mistakes in entering their requests into a computer keyboard. These mistakes can generate user errors that may result in the retrieval of incorrect information or that may result in the delayed retrieval of the correct information. Such user errors can increase the amount of time it takes I M technicians to complete their job orders. This can increase costs and lead to customer dissatisfaction.

Furthermore using a CAT terminal or a portable personal computer PC to access legacy systems can be very inconvenient to I M technicians working in the field. A technician making a site visit already has to carry tools supplies and other equipment to complete many job orders. Carrying an additional five to ten pounds can be very burdensome.

Accordingly the present invention is generally directed to a system and method for permitting a user such as a technician to access information stored on back end legacy systems that substantially obviates one or more of the problems due to the limitations and disadvantages of the prior art.

In an embodiment of the present invention a user such as a technician accesses a systems interface to legacy systems via a front end voice server. The user dials in to the voice server using a portable access device. Preferably the portable access device is a cellular phone. Preferably the voice recognition server performs voice authentication speech recognition and speech synthesis functions. The voice server authenticates the user based on a voice exemplar provided by the user. Using speech synthesis the voice server provides a menu of operations from which the user can select. By speaking into the access device the user selects an operation and provides any additional data needed for the operation. Using speech recognition the voice server prepares a user request based on the spoken user input. The user request is forwarded to the systems interface to the legacy systems. Preferably the systems interface includes a protocol server for providing a protocol interface and a transaction server for receiving user requests and generating legacy transactions based on the user requests. The systems interface retrieves information from the legacy systems based on the user request and forwards this information to the voice server. The voice server formats the information and outputs the information to the access device. Preferably the outputted information may be synthesized speech and or text presented on a display of the access device.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. The invention permits a user such as a technician to remotely access information from back end legacy systems using a voice input to a systems interface instead of making entries on a keyboard. The voice input can be made over a wireline or over a wireless communications network. Using a voice input to the systems interface can reduce difficulties arising from keyboard entry errors. Using a voice input can also free up the technician to tend to other tasks. Using a voice input can reduce costs and improve customer satisfaction. Using a voice input into a cellular phone rather than a PC alleviates the technician from the burden of having to carry the PC around. In addition other benefits include lower cost of cell phone in comparison to PCs less maintenance on cell phone fewer if any software upgrades to be concerned on the cell phone and ease of adding new functionality because client software does not have to be developed or managed.

Access device is a portable device capable of receiving voice input by a technician or other service person to access information from back end legacy systems . Access device may be a voice capable personal computer laptop personal data assistant cellular phone two way pager processor or any portable device capable of receiving voice inputs to be transmitted over a shared network. Preferably access device is a cellular phone with a display.

Access device remotely accesses systems interface through communications network . Communications network may be any communications network that permits a remote computer to access a remote server. Communications network could be a wireline network wireless or cellular network satellite network and so forth. Preferably communications network is a wireless communications network.

Systems interface provides a systems interface between portable access device seeking data from back end legacy systems . Legacy systems are generally mainframe type computer systems that maintain data for a company. According to an embodiment legacy systems may include one or more of the following systems a loop facility assignment control system a loop maintenance operations system a computer system for main frame operations a mechanized loop testing system a secure network element contract server a mechanized time reporting system and a work activity statistical sampling plan system.

The general operation of the system of is as follows. A user of access device such as a technician logs onto systems interface over communications network . After the log on systems interface permits access device to make requests for information from legacy systems . The user can make the requests by voice inputs to systems interface . After receiving the voice inputs systems interface processes the inputs to generate user requests generates legacy transactions based on the user requests receives information from legacy systems and transmits the information back to access device . Preferably the information transmitted to access device is voice data to be outputted by a speaker at access device and or text data to be presented on a display at access device .

Access device may be any of the devices discussed above for access device . Preferably access device is a cellular phone with a display.

Communications network may be a wireline communications network or wireless communications network. Preferably communications network is a wireless or cellular communications network. For example communications network may be the Cingular Wireless Network.

Legacy systems are similar to and include any of the variations discussed in connection with legacy systems of .

In accordance with access device accesses legacy systems through a systems interface . Systems interface includes voice server protocol server and transaction server .

Generally protocol server provides a protocol and middleware interface between access device through voice server and transaction server . Protocol server may receive user requests or other messages from access device route requests or messages to transaction server receive responsive information from transaction server and route responsive information back to voice server through access device . Generally transaction server provides an interface to backend legacy systems so that responsive information can be retrieved.

Transaction server may service requests generate legacy transactions in response to those requests and receive responsive information to be forwarded back to protocol server .

The preferred protocol server and transaction server are disclosed in the copending commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 343 815 entitled Systems and Methods for Utilizing a Communications Network for Providing Mobile Users Access to Legacy Systems hereinafter referred to as the 815 application filed on Jun. 30 1999 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. The preferred systems interface not include the voice server is described in the aforementioned application in connection with the disclosed TECH NET system.

In particular preferred protocol servers or servers are disclosed in the 815 application as the protocol servers which may include any associated hardware and or software disclosed in connection therewith. Preferred transaction servers are disclosed in the 815 application as the TechNet servers which may include any associated hardware and or software disclosed in connection therewith.

Voice server provides an interface between access device and the rest of the system so that the generally Voice in voice out feature of the present invention is substantially transparent to protocol server and transaction server . Voice server also authenticates the user via a combination of voice print identification and queries to the user at login.

Regarding input voice server prepares user requests and other messages e.g. a log in attempt based on voice inputs. Therefore although requests originate as voice inputs from a conventional device such as a cell phone the user requests forwarded by voice server have the same format as if they were prepared by a computer with specialized client software such as the TechNet client software disclosed in the 815 application.

Regarding output voice server processes responsive information returned by protocol server in order to provide an output appropriate for access device . For example voice server processes the responsive information to provide a speech output and or text output that can be presented by the speaker or display respectively of a cellular phone. Voice server can be programmed with a series of preformatted queries that it suggests to the user. The user selects which query or function he wishes to invoke and provides any additional information requested by voice server such as a customer s telephone number. The voice server after all required information is provided by the user can then provide confirmation acknowledgement of the data received and transmits the query on to the transaction server via protocol server .

Voice server can be a dial in type device that can be accessed by access device dialing in over a wireline or wireless network. Preferably voice server is accessed via a dedicated number e.g. so called 800 or 888 number in a wireless network. Preferably voice server can perform three main operations voice authentication voice recognition and voice synthesis discussed in greater detail below.

Voice server protocol server and transaction server are depicted in as separate servers for purposes of clarity and illustration. The operations performed by voice server protocol server and transaction server could easily be combined and performed on a single server. On the other hand the operations could easily be further subdivided and performed on additional servers. It should also be understood that the term server is intended to encompass variations such as processor microprocessor computer minicomputer microcomputer and so forth.

The general operation of the preferred system of is now described. A user such as a technician dials in to voice server preferably by dialing a dedicated number associated with wireless communications network . Voice server uses synthesized speech to request a voice exemplar for log in. The user provides a speech exemplar. Voice server processes the voice exemplar to extract a voiceprint or other mathematical characterization of the user s voice. The extracted characterization is compared to a database of characterizations in order to identify the user. Based on the user s identity the information typically required to log onto protocol server e.g. a user name and password or primary group address is retrieved. This retrieved information is forwarded by voice server to protocol server to effectuate the log on.

Following log on voice server uses speech synthesis to provide a menu of operations from which the user can select. The user selects an operation using voice input that is interpreted using the speech recognition capability of voice server . Alternatively or in addition voice server could number the operations and the user could input a selection by speaking an appropriate number on a cell phone. The user may also speak a command. For example the user can say Change Cable Pair and the system will jump to that transaction without going through the list of functions that is available to the user. Alternatively if the user is not familiar with the system the user can wait to hear the list provided by the system and select an appropriate operation.

After selecting an operation the user may need to input additional information used to complete the data fields associated with the user request corresponding to that operation. For example if the operation is Get Client Account Information other data such as a name account number phone number and so forth must be provided. Voice server may use its voice synthesis capability to provide a prompt for such additional information. For example voice server may send the following voice synthesized statement Please state the customer s account number or Please state the customer s phone number and so forth. The user provides a voice input for this other data which is processed using the speech recognition feature of voice server .

Voice server formats a user request based on the voice inputs provided from access device . The user request is forwarded to protocol server and transaction server which process the request to retrieve responsive information from legacy systems . The responsive information is sent to voice server .

Voice server processes the responsive information to format an output appropriate for an access device . Access device has limitations regarding the volume of data it can present by voice output or display. Voice server may take these limitations into account when formatting output. For example voice server may limit the amount of data that can be presented. If the volume of responsive information exceeds some amount voice server may output a message similar to the following The volume of responsive information to your request requires that you resubmit the request using your PC. 

Otherwise voice server converts the responsive information into voice output or text output or both that is transmitted to access device . Voice output will be heard by the user listening to the speaker at access device . Text output will be read by the user viewing the display at access device . Preferably the user can for example tell the system to send output to digital display. Alternatively if the user does not provide any instructions the system can be adapted to simply speak the output to the user. In other words the user can program so that the system can either output by voice or text or both.

Wireless operating system can be a conventional operating system for a wireless device such as a Rim or interactive pager or a WAP enabled cell phone device.

Wireless browser provides an interface so that text data sent in WXML or WAP format can be interpreted and presented on the display of access device .

Voice browser can be a commercially available voice browser such as the Nuance Voyager product sold by Nuance Communications. Users can access Voice XML enabled web sites. Some websites have recognized the market potential for cell phone access and they have created voice XML access as well as WAP access for digital devices.

According to voice server is programmed with voice authentication module speech recognition module speech synthesis module output format module and other modules .

Voice authentication module performs user authentication by extracting a voiceprint or like characterization of a user exemplar. Voice authentication module may also look up log on data e.g. user ID and password that can be forwarded to protocol server so that the log in is transparent. Voice authentication module can be custom software or it could be adapted or prepared from a commercially available product. A number of authentication software products are presently available. Preferably voice authentication module is based on the Nuance Verifier 2.0 product sold by Nuance Communications of Menlo Park Calif.

Speech recognition module performs speech recognition by processing voice input from the user of access device . Speech recognition module interprets voice inputs corresponding to the selection of an operation the input of data for data fields for the operation and so forth.

Speech recognition module uses these voice inputs to prepare user requests that are recognized by protocol server . Speech recognition module can be custom software or it could be adapted or prepared from a commercially available product. A number of speech recognition software products are presently available. Commercially available speech recognition applications include those sold by United Research Labs e.g. VoiceAction Dragon Systems e.g. NaturallySpeaking and DragonDictate IBM ViaVoice Natural Language Understanding Lemour Houspie e.g. Voice Xpress Phillips Speech Processing e.g. FreeSpeech98 Verbex Voice Systems e.g. Listen for Windows . Preferably speech recognition module is prepared based on the Nuance 7.0 product sold by Nuance Communications.

Speech synthesis module performs speech synthesis to provide voice output to access device . This voice output includes prompts made to the user such as for a log in exemplar for an operation selection or for other data needed to prepare the user request. The voice output also includes the output of responsive information from legacy systems based on a user request. For voice output of responsive information speech synthesis module may receive text or characters from output format module that are converted to speech in a text to speech TTS operation.

Speech synthesis module can be custom software or it could be adapted or prepared from a commercially available product. A number of synthesis software products are presently available from distributors such as those listed above for speech recognition module . Preferably speech synthesis module is based on the Nuance Vocalizer 1.0 product sold by Nuance Communications.

Output format module formats responsive information received from protocol server into an output appropriate for access device . Output format module may determine when the volume of responsive information exceeds an amount that can be outputted by access device . Output format module may include logic that determines what information should be outputted as voice output and what should be outputted as text output. Information that is to be outputted as voice output may be passed to speech synthesis module for TTS conversion. Preferably pre established queries on voice server can limit large amounts of data from being returned to the user. For example voice server can be adapted so that queries that may result in large amounts of date are not returned via voice. An overlay digital data TechNet application can be used to provide the ability to get the massive amounts of data required for service order details and other data intensive requests. Other module refers to any other modules that might be used by voice server .

In step the user dials into a voice server at the front end of a systems interface to legacy systems. For example a user of access device may dial in to voice server .

In step the user provides a voice exemplar. Alternatively the user may state what he wants to do. He may state for example Get candidate pairs for my job and the system will perform a candidate pair transaction. If the user does not remember the command he can wait for the system prompts as described in .

In step the user receives a menu of operations from which to select. For example voice server may provide a voice output of the menu to access device .

In step the user selects an operation. For example the user may provide a voice input corresponding to one of the operations from the menu.

In step the user provides other data for the operation. For example the user may provide data such as a customer name account number or other data that is needed for the user request.

In step the user receives the responsive information. For example the user may receive the responsive information as a synthesized voice output from a speaker at access device . For example the user may receive the responsive information as text output presented by a display at access device .

In step a request is made for a voice exemplar. For example voice server may make a voice synthesized prompt to the user of access device .

In step a voice exemplar is received. For example voice server may receive a voice exemplar based on a voice input by the user of access device .

In step the user is authenticated for the log in. According to an embodiment the step of authenticating the user may include steps . In step the user is identified from the received voice exemplar. For example voice server may process the received voice exemplar to generate a voiceprint that is compared to a database of voiceprints to identify the user. In step a user name and password or similar code is retrieved for the identified user. In step the user name and password or similar code is forwarded to the protocol server. For example the user name and password or similar code may be forwarded to protocol server to complete the log in in a transparent manner.

In step a selected operation is received. For example voice server may receive a voice input selection from the user of access device .

In step other data needed for the operation is received. For example voice server may receive additional voice inputs used to complete data fields corresponding to the user request.

In step the responsive information corresponding to the user request is received. For example protocol server may forward responsive information that was based on a legacy transaction generated by transaction server that was run against legacy systems .

In step the responsive information is formatted. For example voice server may format the responsive information for appropriate output to access device as synthesized voice or text.

The foregoing disclosure of the preferred embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many variations and modifications of the embodiments described herein will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the above disclosure. The scope of the invention is to be defined only by the claims appended hereto and by their equivalents.

Further in describing representative embodiments of the present invention the specification may have presented the method and or process of the present invention as a particular sequence of steps. However to the extent that the method or process does not rely on the particular order of steps set forth herein the method or process should not be limited to the particular sequence of steps described. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate other sequences of steps may be possible. Therefore the particular order of the steps set forth in the specification should not be construed as limitations on the claims. In addition the claims directed to the method and or process of the present invention should not be limited to the performance of their steps in the order written and one skilled in the art can readily appreciate that the sequences may be varied and still remain within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

