---

title: Insulated structural panel connector
abstract: An insulated composite structural panel comprises a first concrete layer, a second concrete layer, and an insulation layer disposed therebetween. One or more shear ties are embedded in the panel. The shear ties include a base portion and a plurality of elongated anchor elements extending from the base portion. A portion of each anchor element extends through the first and second concrete layers and insulation layer. The tie is formed of a material exhibiting ductile elastic-plastic behavior under an applied shear load. In a non-limiting example, the tie may be formed of a fiber reinforced polymer. The tie is constructed and acts to form stable flexural hinges at the interface between the insulation layer and each concrete layer. During a shear load event, portions of the anchor elements within the insulation laterally deform in a ductile manner to keep the structural panel relatively intact.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09303404&OS=09303404&RS=09303404
owner: 
number: 09303404
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150709
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 022 397 filed Jul. 9 2014 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under CMMI 1030812 awarded by The National Science Foundation NSF . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention generally relates to insulated concrete wall panels and more particularly to shear ties or connectors for such panels.

 Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED certified environmentally friendly construction has become standard practice in the United States. Building owners are willing to pay a premium overhead cost in order to save on life cycle costs and receive additional financial benefits from the government by meeting LEED standards. To minimize operational costs and obtain LEED certification building cladding systems must be thermally efficient. The precast concrete industry responded to consumer needs by developing the insulated precast wall panel a building envelope comprised of a layer of insulating foam typically expanded or extruded polystyrene sandwiched between an external and internal layer wythe of concrete as shown in . If a solid concrete panel was fabricated with the same thickness as an insulated panel the solid concrete wall would be over 50 times less thermally efficient than the insulated wall panel due to the high conductivity of concrete.

Intuitively by replacing concrete with foam reduces the strength of the wall panel. By removing the interior concrete the mechanism to transfer the required interface shear is no longer present thus reducing the out of plane flexural strength of the panel. In order for insulated wall panels to have the same strength as a solid concrete wall panel the interior and exterior concrete wythes must act in unison compositely to resist applied loads. The term composite behavior is a term of art referring to the ability of the insulated wall panel to behave under load as a single unitary structure. Historically to achieve composite behavior strong metal devices shear ties physically connected the exterior and interior concrete wythes as shown in . The devices were able to transfer some horizontal shear to increase the strength of the panel however by physically connecting the two wythes with highly conductive metal devices thermal bridging occurs creating hot spots that had a detrimental effect on the thermal resistance of the entire panel. Additionally localized hot spots cause excessive condensation which can cause mold.

Today several proprietary shear tie systems exist that utilize thermally resistive material to mitigate thermal bridging and condensation effects. However tie systems available on the market today may lack the strength required to economically reach composite action lack deformation capacity allow concrete to pass along the tie creating a thermal bridge or are subject to large installation tolerances creating a high variance in the actual panel strength.

Although insulated panels are designed utilizing shear ties to meet a prescribed demand and thermal resistance they often suffer from quality control problems during fabrication. For shear ties to reach the capacity for which they are designed they must be placed at specific locations and with defined embedment otherwise the capacity of the ties may be controlled by the strength of the concrete due to pull out or pry out failure mechanisms rather than the strength of the tie. Additionally in poorly executed installations concrete may bleed past the shear tie creating a large thermal bridge reducing the overall panel thermal resistance. To ensure proper installation extra effort must be taken by the fabricator during shear tie placement translating to a longer production time and additional expense.

Finally shear ties currently available are designed to withstand conventional life cycle loads such as lifting during construction and wind loads during service however no shear ties exist which account for extreme events such as a blast load. Most government facilities mandate both energy and security requirements. An ideal solution to both requirements is a precast insulated wall panel with shear ties designed for high explosive detonations. In blast design the primary mode of energy dissipation is panel deformation. By designing a shear tie with a large amount of ductility the wall panel can displace more energy generated during a detonation before failing reducing the risk to inhabiting occupants.

A new shear tie system is provided that is strong enough to allow an insulated concrete composite panel to reach the nominal moment capacity highly deformable prevent concrete passage and designed to reduce installation tolerances. Additionally by creating a deformable shear tie the maximum attainable panel deflection is increased creating an additional market for blast and impact applications where energy dissipation through panel deflection is required.

The shear tie was developed based on first principles ACI 318 11 code requirements finite element analysis FEA and ergonomics. The shear tie is further designed to fit comfortably in the hand for ease of installation during concrete panel formation and fabricated from a high performance thermally resistive fiberglass composite. In one non limiting implementation the shear tie is made of glass fiber reinforced polymer GFRP such as without limitation a thermoset polyester resin with a unidirectional fiber orientation as further described herein.

The comb shape of the shear tie with pointed ends was selected to allow easy penetration through the insulation layer during panel formation. The ergonomic design allows for quick installation allowing a single worker to install more ties in the same amount of time. Additionally the comb shape automatically forces the tie to stop once the base of the comb with installers fingers between the elongated tines or anchor elements of the tie reaches the insulation panel thereby ensuring correct and consistent installation every time. This also ensures that a top portion of the open slots between the anchor elements s remain between the base of the tie and the insulation panel which is later filled with concrete during the final wythe pour to further interlock the tie with the final wythe.

According to an aspect of the invention an insulated composite structural wall panel includes a first concrete layer a second concrete layer an insulation layer disposed between the first and second concrete layers a shear tie embedded in the wall panel and connecting the first concrete layer to the second concrete layer the shear tie having a longitudinal axis a base portion and a plurality of longitudinally elongated anchor elements extending therefrom the shear tie constructed of a non metallic material that exhibits an elastic plastic response to an applied shear load each of the anchor elements having a length an upper portion disposed in the first concrete layer a lower portion defining a terminal distal end disposed in the second concrete layer and an intermediate portion disposed in the insulation layer a first flexural hinge formed in each anchor element at a first interface between the first concrete layer and the insulation layer wherein when a transverse shear load is applied to the anchor elements by lateral movement of the first or second concrete layers the intermediate portion of each anchor element is transversely and angularly deformed in an elastic plastic manner about the first flexural hinge at the concrete to insulation layer interfaces. In one implementation the shear tie is formed of a unidirectional fiber reinforced polymer matrix the fibers in each anchor element running in a direction along the length of each anchor element. In certain implementations a second flexural hinge is formed in each anchor element at a second interface between the second concrete layer and the insulation layer wherein each anchor element is transversely and angularly deformed in an elastic plastic manner about the first and second flexural hinges within the insulation layer when a transverse shear load is applied to the anchor elements.

According to another aspect an insulated composite structural wall panel includes a first concrete layer a second concrete layer an insulation layer disposed between the first and second concrete layers a shear tie comprising a longitudinal axis a front surface having a flat profile and a rear surface having a flat profile and parallel to the front surface the shear tie formed of a fiber reinforced polymer material characterized by an elastic plastic response to an applied shear load a base portion defined by the shear tie and extending transversely to the longitudinal axis a plurality of elongated anchor elements extending from the base portion parallel to the longitudinal axis each anchor element having a rectilinear cross section a length opposing lateral sides a proximal end at the base portion an opposite distal end and an axial centerline the anchor elements spaced laterally apart by elongated through slots formed between the anchor elements that extend for the entire length of the anchor elements each of the anchor elements having an upper portion embedded in the first concrete layer a lower portion embedded in the second concrete layer and an intermediate portion disposed in the insulation layer wherein after a transverse shear load is applied to the first or second concrete layer the intermediate portion of each anchor element within the insulation layer is deformed in a ductile elastic plastic manner and laterally displaced such that the axial centerlines of the upper and lower portions are laterally offset from each other. In one implementation the fiber reinforced polymer comprises unidirectional fibers in each anchor element running in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis along the length of each anchor element.

A method for sustaining an applied shear force in a composite structural panel is provided. The method includes providing the composite structural panel including a first concrete layer a second concrete layer and an insulation layer disposed therebetween providing a shear tie connecting the first concrete layer to the second concrete layer the shear tie having a longitudinal axis a base portion embedded in the first concrete layer and a plurality of longitudinally elongated anchor elements connected to the base portion each anchor element having an upper portion embedded in the second concrete layer a lower portion defining a terminal distal end embedded in the first concrete layer and an intermediate portion disposed in the insulation layer and oriented parallel to the longitudinal axis of the shear tie the anchor elements of the shear tie constructed of a non metallic material that exhibits an elastic plastic response and failure mode to an applied shear load laterally translating the first or second concrete layer in a first lateral direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the shear tie wherein a shear load is applied to the intermediate portion of each anchor element deforming the intermediate portion of each anchor element in an elastic plastic manner in response to translating the first or second concrete layer and laterally deflecting the intermediate portion of each anchor element in the first lateral direction wherein the intermediate portions of each anchor element in the insulation layer are oriented obliquely to the longitudinal axis of the shear tie. In one implementation the shear tie is formed of a unidirectional fiber reinforced polymer matrix the fibers in each anchor element running in a direction along the length of each anchor element.

Further areas of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter.

All drawings are schematic and not necessarily to scale. Parts given a reference numerical designation in one figure may be considered to be the same parts where they appear in other figures without a numerical designation for brevity unless specifically labeled with a different part number and or described herein.

The features and benefits of the invention are illustrated and described herein by reference to exemplary embodiments. This description of exemplary embodiments is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description. Accordingly the disclosure expressly should not be limited to such exemplary embodiments illustrating some possible non limiting combination of features that may exist alone or in other combinations of features.

In the description of embodiments disclosed herein any reference to direction or orientation is merely intended for convenience of description and is not intended in any way to limit the scope of the present invention. Relative terms such as lower upper horizontal vertical above below up down top and bottom as well as derivative thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description only and do not require that the apparatus be constructed or operated in a particular orientation. Terms such as attached affixed connected coupled interconnected and similar refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures as well as both movable or rigid attachments or relationships unless expressly described otherwise.

In one embodiment the front surface of the shear tie is parallel to the rear surface . Both surfaces may be substantially flat or planar however other surface profiles including non planar are possible for one or both surfaces .

Anchor elements and each have a longitudinal length L defining an axial CL coinciding with the geometric centerline along the length of each element. Base portion has a lateral or transverse length L defining a transverse axis TA perpendicular to a longitudinal axis LA of the shear tie . The longitudinal axis LA is oriented parallel to the anchor centerlines CL of the anchor elements and passes through the geometric centerline of the shear tie. In the illustrated embodiment shear tie has a symmetrical shape about the longitudinal axis LA. In other possible configurations the shear tie may have an asymmetric shape.

Exterior and interior anchor elements are longitudinally elongated and may have the same length L in one embodiment. Anchor elements are each connected to and arranged perpendicular to the common base portion such that the anchor centerlines CL are oriented perpendicular to the transverse axis TA of the base portion. This configuration represents the undeformed pre shear undeformed condition of the shear tie shown in . In this condition the anchor elements are oriented parallel to each other and the longitudinal axis LA.

With continuing reference to each of the anchor elements has opposing longitudinally extending lateral sides . The lateral sides extend between the front and rear surface of each anchor element. Lateral sides may be substantially straight and arranged parallel to each other on each anchor element as shown for at least a majority of the length of the anchor elements and preferably through the entire insulation layer as further described herein. In one embodiment an angled transition section may optionally be formed in the lateral sides proximate to the base portion . Transition section is obliquely angled at an angle A to the axial centerline CL and lateral sides of the anchor elements as well as the longitudinal axis LA of the shear tie as shown. The upper portion on each anchor element where each element transitions into the base portion has a larger cross section and corresponding transverse width measured along the transverse axis TA than the narrower middle portion below which resides in the insulation layer see e.g. . These enlarged upper portions structurally reinforce the part of the anchor elements at the locations adjoining the base portion . It will be appreciated that in other possible embodiments however the upper and intermediate portions of each anchor element may have the same cross section and transverse width such that the lateral sides of each element is parallel for their entire lengths L.

The top proximal ends of each exterior and interior anchor element terminate at the base portion . In a preferred embodiment the bottom terminal distal ends of each anchor element may terminate in a point to facilitate insertion of the anchor elements into the unhardened concrete layer first cast and through insulation panel thereon during panel fabrication. The converging lateral sides on each anchor element which form the point are restricted to the distal portion of the anchor elements proximate to the distal end in present embodiment see e.g. and therefore do not extend for either half or a majority of the length L of each anchor element. The portions of the anchor elements embedded in the insulation layer has a full transverse width and cross section. Otherwise this may weaken the intermediate portion of the anchor elements in the insulation which would be detrimental to achieving the desired ductile elastic plastic response and deformation under an applied shear load as further described herein.

Referring to the shear tie may have a uniform thickness T measured between the front and rear surfaces of the tie in one non limiting implementation see particularly . Accordingly the base portion and exterior interior anchor elements may have the same thickness T. Advantageously this allows the shear ties to be easily and economically cut from a single flat sheet of suitable material without machining operations due to the uniform and planar front and rear surfaces of the entire shear tie. Various means may be used to cut the anchor elements from bulk sheet of shear tie material such a waterjet laser or others depending on the material selected and fabrication cost considerations. In some configurations the anchor elements may have a rectilinear cross sectional shape. In the illustrated preferred embodiment the anchor elements have a rectangular cross sectional shape with unequal sides wherein the lateral width of the anchor elements measured parallel to the transverse axis is larger than the thickness T of the elements. In other possible embodiments the cross sectional shape be square or have other polygonal and non polygonal shapes. In other possible constructions the shear ties may be formed by a casting process such as injection molding.

A plurality of longitudinally extending open through slots are formed between the exterior and interior anchor elements as shown in . Through slots extend for the entire length L of the anchor elements and have an open bottom portion distal from the base portion and a closed top portion proximate to the base portion. The top portion may have a narrower transverse width than the wider bottom portion of each through slot in the illustrated embodiment. In one implementation the top portion may have a lateral or transverse width sufficient to allow an installer to place their fingers through a top opening of each through slot . This facilitates grasping and inserting the shear tie into the unhardened concrete and insulation panel. The base portion of the anchor element forms a closed top end wall at the top opening in the through slot . In one embodiment these end walls may have an arcuately curved surface for more comfortable grasping of the anchor elements by an installer s fingers.

Shear ties may be formed of a suitable thermally resistive material to minimize thermal bridging across the insulation panel between the interior and exterior wythes. In one non limiting embodiment the shear tie is made of glass fiber reinforced polymer GFRP such as without limitation pultruded thermoset polyester resin. GFRP has high strength excellent insulating properties ease of fabrication and economic production. Furthermore GFRP has a similar thermal expansion coefficient and Poisson ratio to concrete mitigating additional stresses from temperature changes and in directions other than the loading surface. Ranges of pertinent nominal properties for pultruded thermoset GFRP are shown in the table below 

Typical Poisson s ration is 0.12 for this GFRP material. In some embodiments carbon basalt or aramid fiber may be used in the FRP matrix in lieu of glass but has a higher associated cost. Young s modulus for this assortment of fibers usable in the fiber reinforced polymer matrix is approximately 240 GPa for carbon fibers 90 GPa for basalt fibers 150 Gpa for aramid fibers and 80 GPa for glass fibers. It will be appreciated that other suitable thermally resistive non metallic materials of sufficient strength which exhibit ductile and elastic plastic behavior to an applied load for reasons further explained below may be used.

Insulation layer has a thickness TI. Insulation layer may be formed a suitable thermally resistive material preferably having a self supporting structure such as insulation board for ease of placement and fabrication of the structural panel . In other embodiments the layer of insulation may be formed by a flowable and hardenable insulation material e.g. foam insulation etc. which is formed and cast on top of the first structural layer . The invention is not limited by the type or manner of deposition of the insulation layer. An air gap can be used in place of a hardenable insulation material in other possible constructions. Preferably the insulating material should be at least partially compressible and less dense than the shear tie material to allow the anchor elements of an installed shear tie to deform within the insulation layer . In one non limiting example the insulation layer may be made of an extruded polystyrene XPS board or panel. Other suitable insulating materials may be used such as without limitation polystyrene foam polyurethane foam polypropylene foam and others. Interfaces and are formed between the less rigid softer insulation layer and the more rigid first and second structural layers respectively.

The composite structural panel may have any dimensions. In one non limiting example structural layers and may have thicknesses TW and TW respectively of about 3 inches. The insulation layer may have a thickness TI of about 2 inches. Other thicknesses of structural and insulating materials may be used. The panel may have any appropriate width and length typically used for insulated composite structural wall panels formed of poured hardenable materials such as concrete.

With continuing reference to a shear tie is shown embedded in the composite structural panel . Base portion of the shear tie is shown positioned in structural layer spaced apart from the exposed outer surface of the layer. Structural layer may be the interior layer or wythe in composite structural wall panel . The base portion of shear tie is arranged substantially parallel to outer surface accounting for small variances in the installation orientation of the anchor by the composite wall panel fabricator. The laterally enlarged upper portions of the anchor elements are also disposed in structural layer such that top portion of the through slots containing top opening is positioned in layer outside of the insulation layer . This allows the structural material in structural layer to flow through the top portions of the through slots for interlocking the shear tie in this layer. The intermediate portions and lower portions of the anchor elements having parallel lateral sides extend from the base portion and pass completely through the insulation layer and into the opposing structural layer . Structural layer may be the exterior layer or wythe in composite structural wall panel . The distal ends of the anchor elements are embedded in exterior structural layer to a depth such that the pointed ends are spaced apart from the exposed outer surface of the layer. The intermediate portions of the anchor elements are positioned within the insulation layer .

Referring particularly to now it should be noted that only compressible insulating material is present between the intermediate portions of the anchor elements in each shear tie when the tie is pushed through the insulation layer during installation. The insulation fills the through slots between the anchor elements. This softer material allows the intentional deformable portions of the anchor elements to flex and deflect deform in a ductile manner to compensate for a transverse shift in position of structural layers and or due to an out of plane load on the wall panel as further described herein. Placing a rigid material or webs in the shear tie between the anchor elements would adversely inhibit the ability of the anchor elements to move and deform in the insulation layer as desired.

The shear tie preferably is further constructed and formed of a material suitable to exhibit a ductile behavior or mechanism i.e. elastic plastic response under an applied shear load see e.g. preferably capable of large elastic deformations in structure and shape without failing. The shear tie therefore preferably has an ability to deform in a ductile manner under shear load rather than fail in a brittle manner. The inventors have discovered that a shear tie with sufficient ductile and deformation capacity can better survive a shear loading event and keep the composite panel substantially intact by allowing the interior and exterior concrete wythes layers to be laterally displaced or slip relative to each other and the wall panel to a degree . This maintains sufficient stability of the composite wall structure for at least a period of time following a shear loading event until repairs may be enacted.

Accordingly to provide the desired ductile behavior and deformation capacity the shear tie in one non limiting embodiment may be made of a GFRP material having a unidirectional glass fiber orientation running parallel to the anchor axes EA of the anchor elements and longitudinal axis LA of the shear tie . The glass fibers therefore are arranged to extend along the length L of the anchor elements rather than transversely. In alternative embodiments unidirectional carbon or steel fibers may alternatively be used.

The shear tie is constructed to form stable ductile or flexural hinges at the location where the anchor elements are embedded into each concrete wythe layer see e.g. . Accordingly a flexural hinge is formed on each anchor element at the interfaces between structural layers respectively and the insulation layer . The flexural hinges are graphically illustrated in location by imaginary circles which do not represent actual physical structures in the anchor elements . The shear force Vj shown in is provided by the ductile action flexural hinges formed by the unidirectional fiber reinforced polymer anchor elements in the present embodiment. In this unidirectional fiber construction the fibers are arranged and run parallel to the length L of the anchor elements . The flexural or ductile mechanism occurs as each anchor element undergoes flexure and the laminar shear strength is exceeded parallel to the fiber orientation. This unidirectional fiber laminar failure mode is seen in the photographic image of . As seen during failure cracks begin to form in the resin fiber matrix of each anchor element i.e. intermediate portion within insulation layer thereby gradually allowing the fibers to delaminate from the matrix due to the unidirectional fiber flexural hinges . Advantageously the portion of the anchor elements embedded in the softer insulation layer versus the concrete structural layers substantially deform and deflect laterally in an elastic plastic manner in response to the applied shear load.

It should be noted the ductile or flexural hinge however can be formed through a number of possible mechanisms. One approach is through the use of unidirectional fiber reinforced polymers such as GFRP as already described herein. Other options for the formation of a stable ductile hinge mechanism include but are not limited to the use of a high ductility resin with random fibers or through the use of geometric variations in the anchor element section where it enters each concrete structural layer .

It bears noting that in some embodiments a single flexural hinge or may achieve the desired ductile deformation deflection of the anchor elements . An example is seen in the portion of the shear ties in right image showing the geometric hinge features formed at the bottom insulation to structural layer interface . Accordingly all embodiments according to the present disclosure do not necessarily require two flexural hinges on each anchor element for certain applications and anticipated shear load conditions.

During fabrication lifting hardware such as eyebolts are typically cast into the interior structural layer or wythe which may be the top second and final structural layer shown in to be poured or cast in a typical panel fabrication method. The bottom first structural layer in is cast first to serve as the exterior layer or wythe. Once the concrete has cured and hardened the panel is lifted at the installed lift points thus creating a tensile demand on the shear ties equal to the weight of the exterior structural layer or wythe 51 or 52. The number of interior anchor elements of the shear ties provided preferably should be sufficient to provide a tensile strength greater than the estimate tensile demand.

Finite element analysis was conducted to determine the stress contours in a shear tie undergoing a single shear event i.e. one structural layer or shifting or translating laterally . A Von Mises stress contour was generated for the shear tie from the analysis. The highest stress concentrations were at the interfaces of the insulation layer and structural layers . This would be the location for incipient failure of the shear tie and coincides with the locations of the flexural hinges formed in the intermediate portions of the anchor elements . Design and construction of the shear tie including material selection therefore should be guided to produce the elastic plastic behavior in the anchor elements in a manner capable of withstanding the estimated stresses at these high stress locations without brittle failure thereby achieving the desired ductile deformation.

A process for sustaining a shear load in a composite structural panel and the resultant flexural or ductile action of the shear tie according to the present invention will now be described with reference to . shows a single shear event in which the second structural layer e.g. concrete moves laterally transversely to the right direction LD . shows a double shear event in which the second structural layer moves laterally transverse to the right direction LD and the first structural layer moves laterally transversely to the left direction LD in an opposite direction. In either scenario the response and performance of the shear ties and their respective anchor elements is similar.

The shear tie is formed of a material exhibiting an elastic plastic behavior to a shear load such as the unidirectional glass fiber reinforced polymer described herein in which the fibers run in a direction parallel to the length L of the anchor elements. The anchor elements in the insulation layer are initially oriented parallel to the longitudinal axis LA of the shear tie in the pre shear undeformed condition shown in . The structural panel may be considered mounted on a building superstructure and undergoes an out of plane loading event e.g. wind load percussive blast etc. thereby triggering a shear load or force event on the structural panel and shear ties .

Referring still to an out of plane loading event occurs on the composite structural panel . This may cause the second structural layer single shear event or first and second structural layers double shear event to shift or move laterally transversely with respect to insulation layer . In this scenario a single shear event will be assumed for simplicity in which only the second layer with base portion embedded therein is laterally moving in a first lateral direction LD to the right transverse to the longitudinal axis LA of the shear tie . This applies a shear load or force acting in the same direction onto to the intermediate portion of each anchor element disposed in the insulation layer .

In response the intermediate portion of each anchor element deflects or bends in the same first lateral direction LD in an elastic plastic manner in response to moving the second structural layer . The graph shown in discussed above shows the elastic plastic response of the shear tie in the deformation zone insulation layer and ability to undergo a substantial lateral displacement and deflection via bending action without failure e.g. at least 0.6 inches in the test case graph . The upper portion of the anchor elements remain rigidly embedded in the second structural layer and the lower portions remain rigidly embedded in the first structural layer . The open through slots between the anchor elements provide maximum flexion of the intermediate portions of the elements allowing them to shift in position and deform accordingly as needed without failure.

During deformation of the shear tie above the portion of the anchor element axial centerline associated with the upper portions of the anchor elements shifts laterally in the first lateral direction LD to establish a new post deformation centerline CL position with respect to the original centerline CL represented by the lower portions of the anchor elements embedded in the first structural layer which has not shifted laterally in this single shear example . The centerline CL of the anchor element upper portions have transversely shifted and been displaced by a lateral distance D. Centerline CL remains parallel to longitudinal axis LA of the shear tie by virtue of the embedment of the upper portions in the second structural layer . The original centerline CL associated with the lower portions of the anchor elements remains parallel to longitudinal axis LA as well.

The anchor element intermediate portions and their respective lateral sides have angularly deformed about the flexural hinges resulting in their lateral displacement represented by distance D. The intermediate portions in the insulation layer are now bent or slanted in the first lateral direction LD by an angle A with respect to the original centerline CL parallel to longitudinal axis LA . This occurs as the upper section or half of the intermediate portion of each anchor element proximate to interface between the second concrete layer and the insulation layer rotates clockwise about the top flexural hinge see rotational arrow . The lower section or half of the intermediate portion of each anchor element in the insulation layer proximate to interface between the first concrete layer and the insulation layer rotates clockwise about bottom flexural hinge see rotational arrow . The flexural hinges act as pivot or rotation axes about which the anchor element intermediate portions of the shear tie angularly moves while undergoing deformation and deflection.

In the post shear deformed condition or position shown in the intermediate portions of the anchor elements are now obliquely oriented at angle A to the original axial centerline of the anchor elements and longitudinal axis LA of the shear tie . In the pre shear undeformed condition or position see e.g. these intermediate portions were oriented parallel to the longitudinal axis LA.

While the foregoing description and drawings represent exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure it will be understood that various additions modifications and substitutions may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope and range of equivalents of the accompanying claims. In particular it will be clear to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be embodied in other forms structures arrangements proportions sizes and with other elements materials and components without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. In addition numerous variations in the methods processes described herein may be made within the scope of the present disclosure. One skilled in the art will further appreciate that the embodiments may be used with many modifications of structure arrangement proportions sizes materials and components and otherwise used in the practice of the disclosure which are particularly adapted to specific environments and operative requirements without departing from the principles described herein. The presently disclosed embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. The appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the disclosure which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents.

