---

title: Self-referenced continuous-variable quantum key distribution
abstract: Various technologies for continuous-variable quantum key distribution without transmitting a transmitter's local oscillator are described herein. A receiver on an optical transmission channel uses an oscillator signal generated by a light source at the receiver's location to perform interferometric detection on received signals. An optical reference pulse is sent by the transmitter on the transmission channel and the receiver computes a phase offset of the transmission based on quadrature measurements of the reference pulse. The receiver can then compensate for the phase offset between the transmitter's reference and the receiver's reference when measuring quadratures of received data pulses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553677&OS=09553677&RS=09553677
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09553677
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151117
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 080 798 filed on Nov. 17 2014 and entitled QUADRATURE OPTICAL COMMUNICATION WITHOUT TRANSMITTING LOCAL OSCILLATOR the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Quantum key distribution QKD enables generation of secured shared randomness between two communicating parties which facilitates secure communications between the parties. Continuous variable quantum key distribution CV QKD is a method of QKD that encodes data on phase and amplitude quadratures of a continuous optical signal. When communicating using CV QKD interferometric detection is used to measure the phase or amplitude quadratures of a received signal. Conventional CV QKD systems rely on a transmitter transmitting a local oscillator signal at a power that is orders of magnitude higher than a power of the data signal to be measured this power discrepancy improves performance of the aforementioned interferometric detection. When transmitting the local oscillator the transmitter physically separates the local oscillator and data signal prior to encoding the data signal. Separation of the local oscillator and data signal is undertaken to avoid contamination of the low power data signal by the high power local oscillator.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various technologies for enabling CV QKD in optical communication without requiring a transmitter to transmit a local oscillator signal are described herein. In an example the transmitter sends a reference pulse and a data pulse to a receiver over a transmission path. The receiver can analyze phase and amplitude quadratures of the reference pulse to determine a phase offset between signal measurements at the transmitter and signal measurements at the receiver. The receiver can then use the phase offset to align the receiver s measurement of amplitude and phase quadratures of the data pulse with the reference frame of the transmitter permitting the receiver to decode information encoded on the amplitude and phase quadratures of the data pulse.

The above presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to CV QKD are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Further as used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Additionally the following detailed description of the figures makes use of conventional nomenclature to refer to two parties to secure communication as Alice and Bob in order to facilitate understanding of certain concepts. These terms are not intended to indicate any limitation as to the nature or characteristics of parties to communication. Specifically the use of the names Alice and Bob is not intended to imply action by a human operator. For example actions described as being taken by either Alice or Bob may be actions taken by an automated electronic system a computing device or the like.

CV QKD permits secure communication between two parties Alice and Bob by taking advantage of the uncertainty principle and the complementarity between phase and amplitude quadratures of a continuous optical signal. As a result of the complementarity between phase and amplitude quadratures when an eavesdropper is present on a communications channel and measures either the amplitude quadrature or the phase quadrature of the signal information encoded on the other complementary quadrature is altered and corrupted. Thus Alice and or Bob can detect the presence of the eavesdropper on the communications channel when they compare a subset of data transmitted between them and notice a discrepancy. Physical characteristics or disturbances e.g. path length mechanical vibrations temperature fluctuations etc. of an optical transmission path can introduce a phase shift in a transmitted signal. Thus to be able to determine what the intended values of the amplitude and phase quadratures of the signal are Bob must ensure that his own quadrature measurements match the transmitter s frame of reference.

To accomplish this conventional CV QKD systems require that a transmitter transmits its own local oscillator signal superimposed upon a data signal encoded with some information to provide a reference point for a receiver to use when measuring the quadratures of the optical data signal by interferometric detection with the local oscillator as the interfering signal . The interferometric measurement results in phase and amplitude quadrature measurements that are referenced relative to the local oscillator which the transmitter also uses as its reference . However because precision of interferometric detection measurements depends on the relative power of two input signals the transmitted oscillator signal must be high power e.g. 1 mW relative to the low power e.g. 10 pW data signal to allow for precise measurement of the data signal s quadrature values.

As a result of the power difference between the transmitter s oscillator signal and the encoded data signal sending the local oscillator signal of the transmitter requires physical separation of the local oscillator signal and the data signal using a series of splitters and time delay components which are difficult to implement in integrated circuits prior to encoding information on the data signal. Separating the local oscillator and data signal prior to encoding information on the data signal permits phase and amplitude modulation components to encode data on the data signal without introducing noise and interference from the high power local oscillator signal. The oscillator signal and encoded data signal are then recombined at the transmitter with additional splitter components prior to transmission. The physical separation and recombination of the two signals introduces some phase ambiguity between the two signals because they are transmitted over different physical paths. Various external interferences including thermal fluctuations and mechanical vibrations change lengths of the different optical paths. This in turn makes phases of the oscillator signal and the encoded data signal randomly fluctuate. Once the oscillator signal and the encoded data signal are physically separated on different optical paths such random phase fluctuation makes a relative phase between the oscillator signal and the encoded data signal ambiguous to an extent where Bob can no longer extract encoded phase information from interferometric measurement. The high power transmitted oscillator signal can also interfere with the data signal on the transmission path as a result of scattering and other non linear noise.

With reference to an exemplary system that facilitates CV QKD is illustrated. As will be described in greater detail below during operation a local oscillator need not be transmitted while benefits of CV QKD are retained. The system includes a transmitter and a receiver which are in communication with one another by way of an optical transmission path . The transmitter comprises a single frequency laser that is configured to emit light at a certain frequency. The transmitter further comprises an acousto optic modulator AOM that receives the light from the single frequency laser and outputs a pulsed optical signal. The transmitter also includes an electro optic EO amplitude modulator that receives the pulsed optical signal from the AOM and modifies the amplitude of the pulsed optical signal thereby generating an amplitude modulated pulsed optical signal. The transmitter further comprises an EO phase modulator that receives the amplitude modulated pulsed optical signal from the EO amplitude modulator and modifies the signal s phase to form a phase shifted signal whereupon the EO phase modulator transmits the phase shifted signal on the transmission path .

The receiver comprises a single frequency laser configured to emit light at a certain frequency e.g. the same frequency as the light emitted by the single frequency laser at the transmitter . The receiver further comprises an interferometric detection system that receives the phase shifted signal from the transmitter via the transmission path and the light emitted from the single frequency laser . As will be described in further detail below the interferometric detection system measures phase and amplitude quadratures of the phase shifted signal from the transmitter based upon the phase shifted signal and the light emitted from the single frequency laser . In an example the interferometric measurement can be performed through heterodyne or homodyne measurements. The receiver also comprises a signal analysis system that receives the quadrature measurements of signals from the interferometric detection system and determines certain signal parameters based on the quadrature measurements. In an example the transmitter and the receiver can be integrated circuits with components and respectively implemented on chip.

The exemplary system enables secure communication between the transmitter and the receiver over the transmission channel without requiring the transmitter to transmit a local oscillator to the receiver . Briefly this is accomplished by using a pulsed reference signal to identify phase offset between the reference signal as sent by the transmitter and as received by the receiver .

Operation of the system is now set forth. At the transmitter the single frequency laser generates a beam of coherent light which is received by the acousto optic modulator . The acousto optic modulator generates individual pulses on that light and emits a pulsed signal. The amplitude modulator amplitude modulates pulses in the pulsed signal in response to an electrical control input e.g. emitted from a clock not shown and outputs an amplitude modulated signal. The phase modulator phase modulates the pulses in the amplitude modulated signal in response to another electrical control input e.g. from the clock or based upon a clock signal and emits a modulated signal which comprises pulses modulated in both amplitude and phase quadratures . The transmitter transmits the modulated signal along the transmission channel to the receiver . The modulated signal includes two kinds of pulses separated in time data pulses and reference pulses. Alice encodes data pulses on the phase and amplitude quadratures with some information that Alice wishes to communicate to Bob by varying electrical control inputs of the amplitude modulator and the phase modulator to cause the modulators to modulate the optical signal. Alice likewise encodes reference pulses with fixed phase and amplitude values to allow Bob to align his measurement reference frame with Alice s reference frame.

The receiver receives the modulated signal which includes the two kinds of pulses via the transmission channel . The single frequency laser emits an optical signal that can have the same frequency as the optical signal emitted by the single frequency laser at the transmitter . Alternatively the single frequency laser can emit an optical signal with a different frequency when compared to the frequency of the optical signal emitted by the single frequency laser at the transmitter. The interferometric detection system receives the modulated signal including the reference and data pulses as well as the optical signal from the single frequency laser . The interferometric detection system measures values of the phase and amplitude quadratures of reference pulses and data signals from the transmitter using homodyne or heterodyne detection using the optical signal emitted by the single frequency laser as a receiver side local oscillator signal. That is the interferometric detection system uses the optical signal from the single frequency laser as an interfering signal. In the exemplary system the interferometric detection system can be an integrated circuit comprising a fiber coupler and photodiodes configured to perform homodyne or heterodyne detection between two signals. In an example the interferometric detection system first measures the phase and amplitude quadrature values of the reference pulse and outputs phase and amplitude quadrature measurements for the reference pulse. The signal analysis system then receives the measurements and computes a transmission offset phase by comparing the measurements to known quadrature values of the reference pulse transmission e.g. based upon previously agreed quadrature values of the reference pulse between Alice and Bob . In an example the signal analysis system can be an FPGA or ASIC configured to perform the computations described below. In another example the signal analysis system can be a computing device comprising a processor and memory configured with instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform the computations described below.

The signal analysis system computes a transmission offset phase angle of the reference pulse according to the following formula 

Once the signal analysis system computes the transmission phase offset angle the signal analysis system can use that phase angle in computations to compensate for phase drift in the channel and output compensated phase and amplitude quadrature values of the data signal based upon values measured by the interferometric detection system of the receiver . Referring now to an illustration of the effect of phase drift on measured phase and amplitude quadrature values is shown. Axes Pand Qshow Alice s reference frame while rotated axes Pand Qshow Bob s misaligned reference frame due to the transmission phase offset angle . Values p q p and qas shown in are quadrature values of the reference pulse measured at the transmitter and receiver as described above with respect to Equation 1. Values pand qare the quadrature values of the data pulse as transmitted by the transmitter . The illustration shows how misaligned reference frames caused by the phase offset result in values pand q the quadrature values measured at the receiver being different from the values measured at the transmitter for the same data pulse. Having computed the value of the angle from the reference pulse with known transmission quadrature values the signal analysis system can compute the phase and amplitude quadrature values of the data pulse as transmitted by Alice pand q from the phase and amplitude quadrature values of the data pulse as measured by Bob pand q by compensating for the misalignment of angle .

The transmitter does not need to transmit a reference pulse each time a data pulse is transmitted nor must a reference pulse immediately precede transmission of a data pulse. Reference pulses are only required to be transmitted at a rate substantially faster than the rate at which the transmission phase offset changes e.g. an order of magnitude faster so that the phase has not substantially changed by the time the receiver receives a data pulse. Likewise the single frequency lasers and of the transmitter and receiver respectively can exhibit some frequency drift with respect to each other. The system is robust to the frequency drift between the lasers and and it is accounted for by the signal analysis system like the channel phase drift described above provided that the rate of drift is similarly small relative to the frequency of reference pulse transmissions. Furthermore the receiver need not receive a reference pulse before receiving a data pulse. In an example the receiver receives and measures the quadrature values of multiple data pulses prior to receiving a reference pulse then computes compensated quadrature values of the data pulses after computing the phase offset angle based on the reference pulse.

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions can include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies can be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like.

Referring now to a methodology that facilitates CV QKD without transmitting a transmitter s local oscillator signal is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at a single frequency optical signal used as a receiver s local oscillator is generated. In an example the single frequency optical signal is generated by a frequency locked laser. At a phase value of a first received optical pulse is identified based on interferometric detection between the single frequency signal generated at and the first optical pulse. The phase value of the first pulse identifies a phase offset between the transmitter and receiver caused by transmission channel noise transmitter and receiver oscillator hardware etc. By way of example the phase value may be determined by performing interferometric detection and then calculating the phase angle based on a trigonometric ratio between amplitude and phase quadrature values of the first optical pulse measured by the interferometer and reference amplitude and phase quadrature values fixed by the transmitter. At a second optical pulse that is encoded with some data is received and the data is decoded by using the phase angle computed at to correct for the phase offset in amplitude and phase quadrature measurements between the transmitter and the receiver.

Referring now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates identifying a phase value of an optical reference pulse is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at an optical reference pulse with known transmission quadrature values is received. The quadrature values sent by a transmitter can be of any value provided that the value sent by the transmitter is known to a receiver. At the amplitude and phase quadratures of the reference pulse are measured at the receiver by a process of interferometric detection which may be either homodyne or heterodyne. The interfering signal used to perform the interferometric measurements of the reference pulse is a single frequency signal from an oscillator that is local to the receiver. The phase referencing methods and systems described herein permit the oscillator local to the receiver to be used for homodyne and heterodyne detection at the receiver. This allows CV QKD without transmitting the transmitter s oscillator signal over a transmission channel. In an example the oscillator may be a single frequency laser that is one component of an integrated circuit comprising the receiver. At a phase value of the received reference pulse relative to the transmitted reference pulse is computed. The computation is based upon the quadrature values measured at the receiver at . In an example the computation is performed to identify the phase angle as described with respect to Equation 1 above. The phase angle is the phase offset between signals as transmitted by the transmitter and as received by the receiver. The phase angle varies over time in response to physical changes in the transmission channel and the methodology can be repeated in order to identify a phase of a new reference pulse. At the methodology ends.

Referring now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates identifying a transmission phase offset angle using only homodyne detection is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at two optical reference pulses are received each having the same phase and amplitude quadrature values. At a phase value of the first optical reference pulse is identified using homodyne measurement. Since homodyne measurement is only capable of measuring a single quadrature at a time at an amplitude quadrature value of the second optical reference pulse is identified by homodyne measurement. Using the phase quadrature measurement from the first optical reference pulse and the amplitude quadrature measurement from the second optical reference pulse at a phase value of the pulses is computed that identifies the phase difference between the transmitter and the receiver. At the methodology ends.

In addition to allowing CV QKD without requiring the transmitter to transmit its own local oscillator signal along the transmission path real time phase referencing as described in detail above increases precision of signal quadrature measurements sufficiently to allow dense coding on the phase and amplitude quadratures to enable high rate classical communication. Referring to an exemplary illustration of a quadrature encoding space is shown. The illustration shows P Q coordinate axes representing a space of possible amplitude and phase quadrature values for a pulse and a plurality of dots e.g. representing possible encoding values on the amplitude and phase quadratures. In an example where P and Q values can be accurately measured to the nearest whole unit a pulse to encode the binary value 0000 0011 can be modulated by the transmitter to have P Q value 3 0 . Thus the transmitter can encode an 8 bit binary value on a single data pulse using a single pair of amplitude and phase quadrature measurements. Increasing the precision of amplitude and phase quadrature measurements permits the P Q space to be more finely segmented allowing more information to be encoded on a single pulse. Thus in another example where P and Q values can be accurately measured to the nearest half a pulse encoding the 16 bit binary value 0000 0001 0000 0011 could be modulated by the transmitter to have P Q value 1.5 0.5 .

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that receives measurements from an interferometer and computes reference phase angles based on the measurements. By way of another example the computing device can be used in a system that receives quadrature measurements of encoded data pulses and computes compensated quadrature values based on an identified reference phase. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store amplitude and phase quadrature measurement values computed reference phase angles etc.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions quadrature measurement values reference phase angles etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

It is contemplated that the external devices that communicate with the computing device via the input interface and the output interface can be included in an environment that provides substantially any type of user interface with which a user can interact. Examples of user interface types include graphical user interfaces natural user interfaces and so forth. For instance a graphical user interface may accept input from a user employing input device s such as a keyboard mouse remote control or the like and provide output on an output device such as a display. Further a natural user interface may enable a user to interact with the computing device in a manner free from constraints imposed by input device such as keyboards mice remote controls and the like. Rather a natural user interface can rely on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition both on screen and adjacent to the screen air gestures head and eye tracking voice and speech vision touch gestures machine intelligence and so forth.

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively or in addition the functionally described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example and without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Program specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Program specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

