---

title: Dynamic content reordering
abstract: In various example embodiments, a system and method for dynamically ordering content and discrete content segments are presented. A set of discrete content segments is received having a first order for distributing the set of discrete content segments during a display of a media stream. Each discrete content segment includes a set of ordering factors. Event data is received. The event data is representative of a set of events depicted by the media stream. A set of event instances is determined from the event data representing the set of events depicted by the media stream. A second order is generated for the set of discrete content segments based on the set of event instances and the sets of ordering factors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473804&OS=09473804&RS=09473804
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09473804
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150612
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to data processing and more particularly but not by way of limitation to dynamic content reordering.

Conventionally advertisements may be placed within a media stream based on a bidding process whereby advertisers bid on predetermined advertisement slots. Pricing for advertisement slots may vary throughout a given media stream and be influenced by a time of day at which the slot occurs a program being transmitted within the media stream and a relative time of year for a broadcast season. Sections of a media stream may include national advertisement portions and local advertisement portions. National advertisement portions of a media stream may be partitioned into slots for advertisements to be displayed across a given nation in which the media stream is broadcast or otherwise distributed. Local advertisement portions may be partitioned into slots for advertisements limited to a specific locality in which the media stream is broadcast. As such once a media stream reaches a specific locality the local advertisement slots may be sold using a similar process as outlined generally above.

The headings provided herein are merely for convenience and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the terms used.

The description that follows includes systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments of the disclosure. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques are not necessarily shown in detail.

Conventional advertisement schemes lack an ability to direct content to display locations within a locality and specific viewing audiences within the locality or the display location based on a composition and identifying characteristics of subjects viewing a media stream in which the content appears. Further conventional content delivery schemes lack an ability to contextually order content within the media stream so as to display content at a favorable time during the transmission of the media stream or to an audience at a time in which the audience is most likely to be susceptible to or positively receive the content.

In various example embodiments systems and methods for a content ordering system for dynamically ordering or reordering discrete content segments within a content stream or media stream are presented. For example a set of discrete content segments can be a set of advertisements to be partitioned into a set of content segment slots within a broadcast media stream e.g. a scripted television program a live television broadcast a sporting event etc. . The content ordering system disclosed can receive the set of content segments along with a set of criteria factors or contextual information for the content segments indicating a desired time event or audience mood at which the content segments are to be displayed. In addition the content ordering system can receive sensor data from devices broadcasting the media stream or sensors associated with the device broadcasting the media stream in order to determine characteristics attitudes attention levels emotional reactions and the like for subjects perceived by the sensors and consuming the media stream.

For example a content producer may produce a content segment linking the content producer with a specific sports franchise or team. The content producer may place a bid to display the content segment within the media stream depicting a game being played by the team. The bid may include a frequency for displaying the content segment and a context for displaying the content segment e.g. display the content segment after the high point of the first quarter for the team display the content segment three times during the game but not after a play or call that is negative for the team display the content segment after a touchdown by the team etc. . The content ordering system may determine an order for the content segment and other content segments within a content stream. For example the order of the content segment may be based on events within the media stream e.g. the score of the game for either team etc. the subjects consuming the media stream e.g. an order based on detecting that the subjects are fans of the team relating to the content segment or both. The content ordering system may also reorder the content segments based on changes in the program an occurrence of one or more specified events e.g. events with a probability of occurrence but not a guarantee of occurrence changes in reactions or attention of the subjects consuming the media stream or combinations thereof. The content producer may have the content segment displayed at times when the subjects are more likely to positively receive the content segments more likely to view and be attentive to the display of the content segment and other factors positively affecting the reception of the content segment by the audience.

With reference to an example embodiment of a high level client server based network architecture is shown. A networked system in the example forms of a network based marketplace or payment system provides server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet or a wide area network WAN to one or more client devices . illustrates for example a web client e.g. a browser such as the Internet Explorer browser developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. State a client application and a programmatic client executing on the client device .

The one or more client devices may comprise but are not limited to mobile phones desktop computers laptops portable digital assistants PDAs smart phones tablets ultra books netbooks laptops multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics game consoles set top boxes televisions smart televisions or any other communication device that a user may utilize to access the networked system . In some embodiments the client device may comprise a display module not shown to display information e.g. in the form of user interfaces . The client device may also include or be associated with a set of sensors . In further embodiments the set of sensors of the client device may comprise one or more of touch screens accelerometers gyroscopes cameras microphones global positioning system GPS devices and so forth. The client device may be a device of a user that is used to receive a media stream e.g. a broadcast of a television program a transmission of an online program a transmission of a streaming entertainment service etc. within the networked system or transmitted to the client device by a broadcast system or a third party server . In one embodiment the networked system is a network based marketplace that responds to requests for product listings publishes publications comprising item listings of products available on the network based marketplace e.g. media products media streams and downloadable media content and manages payments for marketplace transactions. One or more users may be a person a machine or other means of interacting with the client device . In embodiments the user is not part of the network architecture but may interact with the network architecture via the client device or another means. For example one or more portions of the network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a wireless network a WiFi network a WiMax network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks.

The client device may include one or more applications also referred to as apps such as but not limited to a web browser messaging application electronic mail email application c commerce site application also referred to as a marketplace application and the like. The e commerce site application may enable transmission of a media stream e.g. an online movie a video game a video a television program etc. and purchase of items e.g physical items digital items media items etc. . In some embodiments if the e commerce site application is included in the client device then this application is configured to locally provide a user interface and at least some functionalities of an e commerce site and to communicate with the networked system on an as needed basis for data and or processing capabilities not locally available e.g. access to a database of items available for sale to authenticate a user to verify a method of payment access to a database of advertising content access to a database or service for streaming media content etc. . Conversely if the e commerce site application is not included in the client device the client device may use its web browser to access the e commerce site or a variant thereof hosted on the networked system .

The one or more users may be a person a machine or other means of interacting with the client device . In example embodiments the user is not part of the network architecture but may interact with the network architecture via the client device or other means. For instance the user provides input e.g. touch screen input or alphanumeric input to the client device and the input is communicated to the networked system via the network . In this instance the networked system in response to receiving the input from the user communicates information to the client device via the network to be presented to the user . In this way the user can interact with the networked system using the client device .

An application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers may host one or more publication systems payment systems and content ordering systems each of which may comprise one or more modules or applications and each of which may be embodied as hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more information storage repositories or database s . In an example embodiment the databases are storage devices that store information to be posted e.g. publications or listings to the publication system . The databases may also store digital item information in accordance with example embodiments.

Additionally a third party application executing on third party server s is shown as having programmatic access to the networked system via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . For example the third party application utilizing information retrieved from the networked system supports one or more features or functions on a website hosted by a third party. The third party website for example provides one or more promotional marketplace or payment functions streaming media content or downloadable media content that are supported by the relevant applications of the networked system .

The publication systems may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment systems may likewise provide a number of functions to perform or facilitate payments transactions transmission of media streams and downloading of media content. While the publication system and payment system are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments each system and may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system . In some embodiments the payment systems may form part of the publication system .

The content ordering system may provide functionality operable to dynamically order or reorder discrete content segments within one or more streams of content based on sensor data and events within a media stream. For example the content ordering system may receive a content stream including a set of discrete content segments from the databases the third party servers the publication system the broadcast system or other sources. The content ordering system may additionally receive sensor data from a display location for the content stream. In some instances the content ordering system receives event data of a media stream from the broadcast system .

In some example embodiments the content ordering system may analyze the sensor data to order the discrete content segments of the content stream based on the sensor data. In some instances where the set of discrete content segments is provided in a first order for transmission within the content stream the content ordering system can cause a reordering to present the set of discrete content segments in a second order based on one or more of the sensor data and the events within the media stream. As more sensor data is received and more events occur within the media stream the content ordering system can further refine and subsequently redefine the order in which the set of discrete content segments is presented within the content stream. In some example embodiments the content ordering system may communicate with the publication systems e.g. accessing discrete content segments the payment system and the broadcast system . In an alternative embodiment the content ordering system may be a part of the publication system or the broadcast system .

Further while the client server based network architecture shown in is a client server architecture the present inventive subject matter is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication system payment system and content ordering system could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client may access the various publication and payment systems and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication and payment systems and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the Turbo Lister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system .

The access module accesses receives or otherwise obtains data from one or more systems databases or components. The access module is configured to access a set of discrete content segments. In some embodiments the set of discrete content segments can be stored on the database of the network based publication system . In other embodiments the access module may access the set of discrete content segments stored on a database associated with the broadcast system . In some instances the access module accesses the discrete content segments at a time prior to commencement of the media stream from the broadcast system or at the time of transmission of the media stream by the broadcast system .

The receiving module receives event data of the media stream from the broadcast system . In some embodiments the receiving module receives sensor data from a set of sensors at a display location for the media stream. The receiving module can receive sensor data from a plurality of sets of sensors located at a plurality of different display locations. Each set of sensors of the plurality of sensors may transmit a discrete stream or set of sensor data to be received by the receiving module . In some embodiments the receiving module may receive the sensor data in a continuous or semi continuous stream during a time period in which the media stream is being transmitted by the broadcast system .

In some instances the receiving module may receive bursts or periodic sensor data. The bursts or periodic sensor data may be indicative of a sensor acquiring the sensor data during set periods of time e.g. the sensor activates every one three or five minutes upon receiving an input e.g. the sensor is triggered by motion or sound as discrete packets e.g. the sensor takes a single image or series of images or by any other suitable method. The sensor data received from each display location of the plurality of different display locations may be distinct from sensor data received from other display locations and may cause differing orders to be imposed on the content stream as discussed in more detail below.

The detection module may be understood as a module configured to parse the media stream. The detection module detects a set of event instances from the event data depicted by the media stream. In some embodiments the detection module may detect the set of event instances from image recognition or other processing of the media stream. The detection module may detect the set of event instances from metadata e.g. closed captioning data announcer commentary or other sources of metadata associated with or included within the media stream.

The engagement module generates a set of emotion indicators based on the sensor data. The set of emotion indicators represents an emotional state of one or more subjects perceived by the set of sensors at a display location. In some embodiments the set of emotion indicators may be based on sensor data representing one or more indicators selected from a group consisting of a facial feature a body position e.g. posture proximity of a body to the sensor and the like a volume of conversation and a content of conversation.

In some embodiments the engagement module generates a set of attention factors based on the sensor data. The set of attention factors represents an estimation of a level of attention paid by one or more subjects perceived by the set of sensors to the media stream. In some embodiments the set of attention factors may be based on sensor data representing one or more indicators selected from a group comprising subject proximity to a sensor a number of subjects perceived by the sensor e.g. the number of subjects the sensor currently perceives a subject facial orientation a subject body orientation a subject facial expression a volume level of the subjects a conversation indicator of the subjects e.g. content of the conversation direction of the conversation etc. and other characteristics or physical positioning of the one or more subjects perceived by the sensor.

The order module is configured to generate an order for the set of discrete content segments of the content stream. In some embodiments the order module generates an order where the set of discrete content segments includes no prior order. In some instances the set of discrete content segments includes a first order when accessed by the access module . In embodiments where the set of discrete content segments includes a first order the order module may generate a second order for the set of discrete content segments. The order module may determine the order based on the set of event instances. In some embodiments the order module may determine the order based on the set of event instances and a set of ordering factors for the set of discrete content segments.

Where the receiving module receives sensor data for a display location the order module can generate the order based on one or more of the set of event instances the set of ordering factors and the sensor data. In these instances the order module may generate the order for the display location associated with the sensor data. In this way the order module may generate a distinct order for each display location for which the receiving module receives sensor data. Further in some embodiments the order module may generate the order based on one or more of the set of emotion indicators the set of attention factors the set of event instances the set of ordering factors a set of engagement indicators and the sensor data.

The presentation module causes presentation of the set of discrete content segments within the content stream according to the order determined by the order module . For example the presentation module can generate the content stream and the included set of discrete content segments on a display device associated with the client device . The presentation module may cause presentation of the content stream by transmitting the content stream and appropriate display instructions to the client device displaying the content stream on the client device generating one or more screens or web pages or any other suitable method. Although embodiments are discussed with reference to a display device it should be understood that the presentation module can cause presentation of the content stream and the set of discrete content segments in any suitable manner or combination of manners e.g. audio only video only still pictures audio and video still pictures and audio etc. .

The communication module enables communication among the client device the content ordering system the publication system and one or more external systems e.g. the payment system the broadcast system or other systems . In some example embodiments the communication module can enable communication among the access module the receiving module the detection module the engagement module the order module and the presentation module . The communication module can be a hardware implemented module a software implemented module or a combination thereof as described in more detail below. For example the communication module can include communications mechanisms such as an antenna a transmitter one or more buses and other suitable communication mechanisms capable of enabling communication between the modules the client device the content ordering system the publication system the payment system or the broadcast system .

In operation the access module accesses a set of discrete content segments for display in a media stream. The access module may access the set of discrete content segments stored on the database via the communication module . In some embodiments the set of discrete content segments may be stored in a database of the broadcast system and accessed using one or more requests and responses of the access module transmitted by the communication module . The access module may also access the discrete content segments across multiple databases on one or more systems. In these embodiments the access module may transmit the discrete content segments accessed on different systems to a central database e.g. the database to create the set of discrete content segments or to another module for completion of the method .

Each discrete content segment of the set of discrete content segments may include a content and a set of ordering factors. The set of ordering factors may be understood to be a set of conditions guiding ordering and display of the discrete content segment. The ordering factors may be determined by the producer or owner of the discrete content segment a third party entity e.g. FCC or any other entity having rights to distribute or limit distribution of the discrete content segment. For example the discrete content segment may be advertisement.

In some embodiments the set of ordering factors may include a set of event factors understood to be events e.g. a baseball player hitting a home run a quarterback in a football game being sacked a musical guest playing on a live broadcast of a comedy or variety show a dramatic moment of a scripted television program etc. actions keywords e.g. keywords spoken by a person during a show a keyword displayed on a closed caption system a keyword displayed in a scrolling or static chyron displayed on the client device etc. time periods e.g. entering a fourth quarter of a sporting event or other suitable event factors. In some embodiments the actions can be directly related to the media stream or indirectly related to the media stream.

Actions directly related to the media stream may be understood to be actions being displayed spoken or otherwise happening within the media stream. For example the directly related actions could include a player signaling a time out a referee stopping a game to review a play an announcer commenting on a play and the like. By way of further example actions directly related to the media stream can include aspects of the media stream perceived by image video or speech recognition systems. Exemplary aspects of the media stream can include referee signals banners e.g. chyrons indicating scoring actions of players or the like referee signals e.g. as perceived by image video speech recognition systems and other aspects directly related to the media stream or depicting portions of the media stream. In some instances image or video recognition systems may include image recognition modules capable of receiving images video or live video using image sensors and processing the images video or live video to identify patterns words motions or other items to recognize the aspects of the media stream. The audio recognition system can include audio recognition modules e.g. speech recognition modules noise recognition modules etc. along with one or more microphone or other audio sensor to identify and discern between types or wave forms of audio data to recognize the aspects of the media stream. In some embodiments indirectly related actions can include actions of one or more subjects perceived by the sensors as will be explained in more detail below.

Indirectly related actions could include for example one or more subjects viewing the media stream cheering for an event shouting toward the client device jumping sitting down turning away from the client device or any other suitable action. The event factors may indicate one or more events of the set of events depicted in the media stream after which a discrete content segment is to be displayed.

In some instances the set of ordering factors may include a set of distribution factors understood to be conditions for inclusion of a discrete content segment into the content stream. These distribution factors may be independent of the set of events within the media stream. For example the distribution factors may be indicative of a relationship between the producer of a discrete content segment and a broadcast or publishing entity on whose signal the discrete content segment is to be transmitted. In some embodiments the set of distribution factors may be selected from a group comprising an association among one or more discrete content segments of the set of discrete content segments a distribution total for the discrete content segment a bid price of the discrete content segment or a total price paid for a subset of related discrete content segments.

In operation the receiving module receives event data representative of the media stream. The event data may be understood broadly as a content of the media stream or more specifically aspects of the content of the media stream which may be contextually related to or capable of affecting reception of a discrete content segment e.g. an advertisement by an audience of the media stream. In some embodiments the event data may be an aggregation of common and uncommon occurrences within a portion of the media stream e.g. a sporting event a live television event a scripted program which may have an effect on the reception of the discrete content segment e.g. an advertisement and may be difficult to predict prior to their occurrence within the media stream. The receiving module may receive the event data by receiving the media stream from the broadcast system for example. In some embodiments all or a portion of the event data may be transmitted along with the media stream as metadata associated with the media stream. The metadata may be a reflection of the event data such as closed captioning data announcer commentary or other sources of metadata.

The receiving module may receive the event data directly from the broadcast system receiving the transmission of the media stream via a network a broadcast transmission or any other suitable communication method. In some embodiments at least a portion of the receiving module may be implemented in the broadcast system such that the receiving module directly receives the media stream and passes the event data from the media stream back to the content ordering system . In some instances the receiving module may receive the event data through the client device such that once the client device receives the media stream the client device transmits all or a portion of the media stream to be received by the receiving module . Although a few methods of receiving the event data have been disclosed it will be understood that other suitable methods of receiving one or more of the media stream and the event data may also be used.

In operation the detection module detect a set of event instances of from the event data depicted by the media stream. An event instance can be understood as a discrete instance of a set of possible occurrences within the media stream. For example in a baseball game the event data may include a plurality of runs or pitches while an event instance can be a run amounting to a grand slam a pitch which strikes a batter out a pitch by a specified team or the like. In some embodiments the event instance may be one or more occurrences which act as a precursor or possible precursor to a desired event or occurrence. For example the event instance in a sporting event such as a football game can be a series of successive downs by a team which place the team in a scoring position.

In operation the order module generates an order for the set of discrete content segments for transmission within the content stream. The order may be generated based on the set of event instances and the set of ordering factors for each discrete content segment of the set of discrete content segments. The order module may generate the order based on a weighted function receiving the set of ordering factors e.g. the set of event factors and the set of distribution factors for each of the discrete content segments and the set of event instances as inputs to the weighted function. In some embodiments the set of discrete content segments may be provided in a predetermined first order for presentation within the content stream. In these instances the order module may generate a second order for the set of discrete content segments.

In some embodiments the order module determines the order of the set of discrete content segments using one or more segment matrices. The one or more segment matrices may plot each discrete content segment within a segment matrix for example by plotting one or more of the ordering factors against a monetary value. The monetary value may represent a fixed price paid by the producer of the discrete content segment a bid for placement of the discrete content segment or any other monetary value the producer may promise to pay for placement of the discrete content segment within the content stream or the media stream. As discussed the one or more segment matrices may provide a cost related context to the set of discrete content segments used as input for the order module .

For example upon receiving an event instance of a touchdown in a football game the order module may determine one or more discrete content segments from the set of discrete content segments having an ordering factor of the set of ordering factors relating to a touchdown. The order module may order the set of discrete content segments such that the discrete content segments having an ordering factor relating to a touchdown e.g. the discrete content segment is to be displayed after a touchdown are placed in a relative order. For example the discrete content segment may be placed toward the front of the order or toward the end of the order when the audience is more likely to be viewing the client device . The order module may determine the position of the set of discrete content segments from their relative order using the monetary value associated with the discrete content segments. For example the order module may place the discrete content segments having a higher monetary value into a more prominent position within the relative order. In some embodiments the order module may prioritize the ordering factor over the monetary value in order to generate a better contextual fit between the event instance and the set of discrete content segments.

Further in some instances the order module may prioritize a discrete content segment within the order based on a second segment matrix. For example the order module may determine a first order based on the event instance the ordering factors and the monetary value. The order module may then determine using the second segment matrix that two discrete content segments are to be played back to back in an order or within a predetermined number of discrete content segments from one another. The order module may then reorder the first order into a second order to satisfy the ordering factor of the second segment matrix.

In some embodiments the method may include operation . In operation the presentation module causes presentation of the set of discrete content segments within the media stream according to the order determined by the order module in operation . The set of discrete content segments may be interspersed into the media stream in the order generated by the order module . In some embodiments the set of discrete content segments may be interspersed into the media stream by inserting the set of discrete content segments into the data stream representing the media stream such that the set of discrete content segments becomes an integrated portion of the media stream. In other instances the set of discrete content segments may be interspersed by substituting the set of discrete content segments for portions of the media stream without integrating the two streams. For example the client device may receive transmission of both the content stream and the media stream. At intervals during the transmission of the media stream the client device may display one or more of the set of discrete content segments. After display of the one or more discrete content segments the client device may resume display of the media stream.

In some embodiments the set of discrete content segments may be interspersed into the media stream in subsets e.g. bundles of multiple discrete content segments such that portions of the media stream are presented between subsets of the set of discrete content segments. In some instances the set of discrete content segments may be dispersed within the media stream spaced apart by time intervals. The time intervals may be evenly distributed during the transmission of the media stream. In some instances the time intervals may be dynamically distributed during the transmission of the media stream such that some of the time intervals may be shorter or longer than other time intervals.

The method may be performed by initially executing operations and described above. In operation the receiving module receives sensor data indicative of a set of engagement indicators. The engagement indicators may be understood as data indicating various levels of engagement of one or more subjects with the media stream. The engagement indicators indicate the levels of engagement by representing actions of one or more subjects perceived by the sensor during display of the media stream.

In some embodiments the engagement indicators include a set of emotion indicators and a set of attention indicators. The emotion indicators can be understood as actions characteristics or positions of a subject indicative of an emotional state or response. As such the emotion indicators may represent an emotional state of one or more subjects perceived by the set of sensors at a display location. In some embodiments the set of emotion indicators may be based on sensor data representing one or more characteristics selected from a group consisting of a facial feature e.g. a frown a smile a furrowed brow wide eyes indicating surprise etc. a body position e.g. posture proximity of a body to the sensor and the like a volume of conversation a pace of conversation a content of conversation a lack of conversation and the like.

The attention indicators may be understood as actions characteristics or positions of a subject indicative of the subject s level of attention directed to the media stream. These attention indicators may represent whether one or more subjects perceived by the set of sensors at the display location are actively consuming passively consuming or ignoring the media stream. Active consumption of a media stream can be understood as the one or more subjects paying direct attention to the associated content while passive consumption can be understood as the one or more subjects having their attention divided between the media stream and another point of attention e.g. another content stream a conversation with another subject a book etc. . In some embodiments the set of attention indicators may be based on sensor data representing one or more characteristics selected from a group comprising one or more of a subject proximity to a sensor a number of subjects perceived by the sensor a subject facial orientation e.g. the subject positioning their face or eyes toward or away from the client device a subject body orientation e.g. a subject sitting down a subject standing a subject s shoulders positioned parallel to the client device a subject s shoulders being at an angle to the client device the subject lying down etc. and other suitable characteristics capable of indicating a focus of attention of the subject.

In some embodiments the receiving module may employ the set of sensors within or associated with the client device to determine the emotion indicators and the attention indicators. In some embodiments the receiving module may pass the raw sensor data including the emotion indicators and the attention indicators to another module or application for analysis to identify the emotion indicators and attention indicators. For example the receiving module may be in communication with the engagement module which may be capable of providing facial recognition processes for identifying facial features expressions and orientations of subjects perceived by the set of sensors . The engagement module may also include voice analysis processes for determining conversation and conversation content from general noise e.g. ambient noise cheering etc. . The engagement module may further include processes capable of determining proximity of the subject to the set of sensors and the number of subjects in the room. The engagement module may also include processes for pattern recognition to determine aspects and characteristics of the subjects perceived by the sensor. For example the pattern recognition processes may determine wall decoration or jersey colors and patterns to determine a team affiliation of the subjects consuming a media stream including a sporting event.

In operation the engagement module generates a set of emotion factors based on the set of emotion indicators within the sensor data. The emotion factors may be understood as a set of data representative of the set of emotion indicators. The emotion factors are configured as input into the order module for determining an order for the set of discrete content segments. In some embodiments the emotion factors may be a set of data values representing a facial feature a volume of conversation a content of conversation and the like received in the sensor data.

In operation the engagement module generates a set of attention factors based on the set of attention indicators within the sensor data. The attention factors may be understood as a set of data representative of the set of attention indicators. The attention factors are configured to provide input into the order module for determining an order for the set of discrete content segments. In some embodiments the attention factors may be a set of data values representing a subject proximity to the sensors a number of subjects perceived by the sensor a subject facial orientation relative to the sensor or the client device a subject body orientation relative to the sensor or the client device or the like received in the sensor data.

In operation the order module generates an order for the set of discrete content segments based on the set of event instances the set of ordering factors for the set of discrete content segments the set of emotion factors and the set of attention factors. In some embodiments operation may be implemented similarly to operation . For example the order module may reference a plurality of segment matrices mapping the set of discrete content segments to the ordering factors and monetary values. The set of emotion factors and the set of attention factors may be used in conjunction with the set of event instances to weight and order the set of discrete content segments based on a determination of contextual appropriateness of a given discrete content segment for the set of subjects consuming the media stream and the events preceding presentation of the discrete content segment.

In some embodiments the method may include operation in which the presentation module causes presentation of the set of discrete content segments within the media stream according to the order determined by the order module in operation . In some embodiments operation can be performed similarly to operation described above.

In operation the access module accesses a set of discrete content segments for display in a media stream. The access module may access the set of discrete content segments stored on the database or a database of the broadcast system via the communication module . In some embodiments operation may be performed similarly to or the same as operation .

In operation the receiving module receives first event data representative of a first media stream. In some embodiments the first media stream may be a media stream in which the set of discrete content segments is to be presented. In some instances the set of discrete content segments may be distributed among a plurality of media streams. In some embodiments operation can be performed similarly to operation .

In operation the detection module detects a set of first event instances from the first event data depicted by the first media stream. In some instances operation may be performed similarly to operation .

In operation the receiving module receives second event data representative of a second media stream. In some embodiments the second media stream may be a media stream being displayed at the same display location as the first media stream where the first media stream is displayed on a first client device and the second media stream is displayed on a second client device. In some instances operation may be performed similarly to operation .

In some embodiments the receiving module may receive the second event data through the set of sensors associated with the client device displaying the first media stream. In these instances the content ordering system may have no direct access to the second media stream but receive the second event data through indirect means.

In operation the detection module detects a set of second event instances from the second event data depicted by the second media stream. In some instances operation may be performed similarly to operation .

In operation the receiving module receives sensor data indicative of a set of engagement indicators. The engagement indicators may be engagement indicators as described above with respect to . In some instances one or more of the set of engagement indicators may be indicative of attention directed to either the first media stream or the second media stream. For example a set of attention indicators within the engagement indicators may indicate facial or body positioning of one or more subjects relative to the first client device displaying the first media stream or the second client device displaying the second media stream. In some embodiments operation may be performed similarly to operation described above.

In operation the engagement module generates a first engagement score for the first media stream and a second engagement score for the second media stream. In some embodiments the engagement module generates a first set of emotion factors and a first set of attention factors for the first media stream and a second set of emotion factors and a second set of attention factors for the second media stream. The engagement module can generate the first engagement score based on the first set of emotion factors and the first set of attention factors and the second engagement score based on the second set of emotion factors and the second set of attention factors. In some embodiments the first engagement score and the second engagement score are generated relative to one another to indicate whether the first media stream or the second media stream is the primary focus of the one or more subjects.

In operation the order module generates an order for the set of discrete content segments based on the set of first event instances the set of second event instances the set of ordering factors for the set of discrete content segments the first engagement score and the second engagement score. The order generated by the order module may be a second order where the set of discrete content segments is transmitted to the content ordering system with a specified first order. In some embodiments the order generated by the order module may include a set of orders dividing the set of discrete content segments between multiple client devices . In some embodiments operation may be performed similarly to operation described above.

In operation the presentation module causes presentation of the set of discrete content segments in one or more of the first media stream and the second media stream. In at least some embodiments operation may be performed similarly to operation or operation .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software executed by a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. Once configured by such software hardware modules become specific machines or specific components of a machine uniquely tailored to perform the configured functions and are no longer general purpose processors. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software accordingly configures a particular processor or processors for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented with a particular processor or processors being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an Application Program Interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

The modules methods applications and so forth described in conjunction with are implemented in some embodiments in the context of a machine and an associated software architecture a server and an associated software architecture or combinations thereof. The sections below describe representative software architecture s and machine e.g. hardware architecture s that are suitable for use with the disclosed embodiments.

Software architectures are used in conjunction with hardware architectures to create devices and machines tailored to particular purposes. For example a particular hardware architecture coupled with a particular software architecture will create a mobile device such as a mobile phone tablet device or so forth. A slightly different hardware and software architecture may yield a smart device for use in the internet of things while yet another combination produces a server computer for use within a cloud computing architecture. Not all combinations of such software and hardware architectures are presented here as those of skill in the art can readily understand how to implement the features of the present disclosure in different contexts from those presented herein.

In the example architecture of the software architecture may be conceptualized as a stack of layers where each layer provides particular functionality. For example the software architecture may include layers such as an operating system libraries frameworks middleware applications and a presentation layer . Operationally the applications and or other components within the layers may invoke application programming interface API calls through the software stack and receive a response returned values and so forth illustrated as messages in response to the API calls . The layers illustrated are representative in nature and not all software architectures have all layers. For example some mobile or special purpose operating systems may not provide a layer of frameworks middleware while others may provide such a layer. Other software architectures may include additional or different layers.

The operating system may manage hardware resources and provide common services. The operating system may include for example a kernel services and drivers . The kernel may act as an abstraction layer between the hardware and the other software layers. For example the kernel may be responsible for memory management processor management e.g. scheduling component management networking security settings and so on. The services may provide other common services for the other software layers. The drivers may be responsible for controlling or interfacing with the underlying hardware. For instance the drivers may include display drivers camera drivers Bluetooth drivers flash memory drivers serial communication drivers e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB drivers Wi Fi drivers audio drivers power management drivers and so forth depending on the hardware configuration.

The libraries may provide a common infrastructure that may be utilized by the applications and or other components and or layers. The libraries typically provide functionality that allows other software modules to perform tasks in an easier fashion than by interfacing directly with the underlying operating system functionality e.g. kernel services and or drivers . The libraries may include system libraries e.g. C standard library that may provide functions such as memory allocation functions string manipulation functions mathematic functions and the like. In addition the libraries may include API libraries such as media libraries e.g. libraries to support presentation and manipulation of various media formats such as MPEG4. H.264 MP3 AAC AMR JPG and PNG graphics libraries e.g. an OpenGL framework that may be used to render content in a 2D and 3D graphic context on a display database libraries e.g. SQLite that may provide various relational database functions web libraries e.g. WebKit that may provide web browsing functionality and the like. The libraries may also include a wide variety of other libraries to provide many other APIs to the applications and other software components modules.

The frameworks middleware also sometimes referred to as middleware may provide a higher level common infrastructure that may be utilized by the applications and or other software components modules. For example the frameworks middleware may provide various graphic user interface GUI functions high level resource management high level location services and so forth. The frameworks middleware may provide a broad spectrum of other APIs that may be utilized by the applications and or other software components modules some of which may be specific to a particular operating system or platform.

The applications include built in applications third party applications and or instructions for operating a portion of the methods described above to be performed by the content ordering system . Examples of representative built in applications may include but are not limited to a contacts application a browser application a book reader application a location application a media application a messaging application and or a game application. The third party applications may include any of the built in applications as well as a broad assortment of other applications. In a specific example the third party application e.g. an application developed using the Android or iOS software development kit SDK by an entity other than the vendor of the particular platform may be mobile software running on a mobile operating system such as iOS Android Windows Phone or other mobile operating systems. In this example the third party application may invoke the API calls provided by the mobile operating system such as the operating system to facilitate functionality described herein.

The applications may utilize built in operating system functions e.g. kernel services and or drivers libraries e.g. system APIs and other libraries and frameworks middleware e.g. frameworks middleware to create user interfaces to interact with users of the system. In some embodiments a portion of the instructions function as a part of the frameworks middleware to perform at least a portion of the methods described above to be performed by the content ordering system . Alternatively or additionally in some systems interactions with a user may occur through a presentation layer such as the presentation layer . In these systems the application module logic can be separated from the aspects of the application module that interact with the user.

Some software architectures utilize virtual machines. In the example of this is illustrated by a virtual machine . A virtual machine creates a software environment where applications modules can execute as if they were executing on a hardware machine such as the machine of for example . A virtual machine is hosted by a host operating system e.g. operating system in and typically although not always has a virtual machine monitor which manages the operation of the virtual machine as well as the interface with the host operating system e.g. operating system . A software architecture which may include an operating system libraries frameworks middleware applications and or a presentation layer executes within the virtual machine . These layers of software architecture executing within the virtual machine can be the same as corresponding layers previously described or may be different.

The machine may include processors memory storage and I O components which may be configured to communicate with each other such as via a bus . In an example embodiment the processors e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a Reduced Instruction Set Computing RISC processor a Complex Instruction Set Computing CISC processor a Graphics Processing Unit GPU a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFIC another processor or any suitable combination thereof may include for example a processor and a processor that may execute the instructions . The term processor is intended to include a multi core processor that may comprise two or more independent processors sometimes referred to as cores that may execute instructions contemporaneously. Although shows multiple processors the machine may include a single processor with a single core a single processor with multiple cores e.g. a multi core processor multiple processors with a single core multiple processors with multiples cores or any combination thereof.

The memory storage may include a memory such as a main memory or other memory storage and a storage unit both accessible to the processors such as via the bus . The storage unit and memory store the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or partially within the memory within the storage unit within at least one of the processors e.g. within the processor s cache memory or any suitable combination thereof during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the memory the storage unit and the memory of the processors are examples of machine readable media.

As used herein machine readable medium means a device able to store instructions and data temporarily or permanently and may include but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory optical media magnetic media cache memory other types of storage e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store the instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processors cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium excludes signals per se.

The I O components may include a wide variety of components to receive input provide output produce output transmit information exchange information capture measurements and so on. The specific I O components that are included in a particular machine will depend on the type of machine. For example portable machines such as mobile phones will likely include a touch input device or other such input mechanisms while a headless server machine will likely not include such a touch input device. It will be appreciated that the I O components may include many other components that are not shown in . The I O components are grouped according to functionality merely for simplifying the following discussion and the grouping is in no way limiting. In various example embodiments the I O components may include output components and input components . The output components may include visual components e.g. a display such as a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT acoustic components e.g. speakers haptic components e.g. a vibratory motor resistance mechanisms other signal generators and so forth. The input components may include alphanumeric input components e.g. a keyboard a touch screen configured to receive alphanumeric input a photo optical keyboard or other alphanumeric input components point based input components e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or another pointing instrument tactile input components e.g. a physical button a touch screen that provides location and or force of touches or touch gestures or other tactile input components audio input components e.g. a microphone and the like.

In further example embodiments the I O components may include biometric components motion components environmental components or position components among a wide array of other components. For example the biometric components may include components to detect expressions e.g. hand expressions facial expressions vocal expressions body gestures or eye tracking measure biosignals e.g. blood pressure heart rate body temperature perspiration or brain waves identify a person e.g. voice identification retinal identification facial identification fingerprint identification or electroencephalogram based identification and the like. The motion components may include acceleration sensor components e.g. accelerometer gravitation sensor components rotation sensor components e.g. gyroscope and so forth. The environmental components may include for example illumination sensor components e.g. photometer temperature sensor components e.g. one or more thermometers that detect ambient temperature humidity sensor components not shown pressure sensor components e.g. barometer acoustic sensor components e.g. one or more microphones that detect background noise proximity sensor components e.g. infrared sensors that detect nearby objects not shown gas sensors e.g. gas detection sensors to detect concentrations of hazardous gases for safety or to measure pollutants in the atmosphere not shown or other components that may provide indications measurements or signals corresponding to a surrounding physical environment. The position components may include location sensor components e.g. a Global Position System GPS receiver component altitude sensor components e.g. altimeters or barometers that detect air pressure from which altitude may be derived orientation sensor components e.g. magnetometers and the like.

Communication may be implemented using a wide variety of technologies. The I O components may include communication components operable to couple the machine to a network or devices via a coupling and a coupling respectively. For example the communication components may include a network interface component or other suitable device to interface with the network . In further examples the communication components may include wired communication components wireless communication components cellular communication components Near Field Communication NFC components Bluetooth components e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy Wi Fi components and other communication components to provide communication via other modalities. The devices may be another machine or any of a wide variety of peripheral devices e.g. a peripheral device coupled via a Universal Serial Bus USB .

Moreover the communication components may detect identifiers or include components operable to detect identifiers. For example the communication components may include Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag reader components NFC smart tag detection components optical reader components e.g. an optical sensor to detect one dimensional bar codes such as Universal Product Code UPC bar code multi dimensional bar codes such as Quick Response QR code Aztec code. Data Matrix Dataglyph MaxiCode PDF417 Ultra Code UCC RSS 2D bar code and other optical codes or acoustic detection components e.g. microphones to identify tagged audio signals . In addition a variety of information may be derived via the communication components such as location via Internet Protocol IP geo location location via Wi Fi signal triangulation location via detecting an NFC beacon signal that may indicate a particular location and so forth.

In various example embodiments one or more portions of the network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN the Internet a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a plain old telephone service POTS network a cellular telephone network a wireless network a Wi Fi network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks. For example the network or a portion of the network may include a wireless or cellular network and the coupling may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or another type of cellular or wireless coupling. In this example the coupling may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP including 3G fourth generation wireless 4G networks Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE standard others defined by various standard setting organizations other long range protocols or other data transfer technology.

The instructions may be transmitted or received over the network using a transmission medium via a network interface device e.g. a network interface component included in the communication components and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Similarly the instructions may be transmitted or received using a transmission medium via the coupling e.g. a peer to peer coupling to the devices . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of embodiments of the present disclosure. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single disclosure or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present disclosure as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

