---

title: System and method for context aware usability management of human machine interfaces
abstract: A method includes determining by a sensor of a mobile device that a first ambient sound level represents a quiet context for the mobile device, providing a audio signal to a speaker of the mobile device in response to determining that the first ambient sound level represents a quiet context, determining, by the sensor, that a second ambient sound level represents a first noisy context for the mobile device, wherein the second ambient sound level is louder than the first ambient sound level, modifying the audio signal into a beam forming audio signal in response to determining that the second ambient sound level represents the first noisy context, and providing the beam forming audio signal to the speaker.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313319&OS=09313319&RS=09313319
owner: DELL PRODUCTS, LP
number: 09313319
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150227
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 744 957 entitled System and Method for Context Aware Usability Management of Human Machine Interfaces filed on Jan. 18 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure generally relates to information handling systems and more particularly to providing context aware usability management of human machine interfaces.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option is an information handling system. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements may vary between different applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software resources that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

The following description in combination with the Figures is provided to assist in understanding the teachings disclosed herein. The following discussion will focus on specific implementations and embodiments of the teachings. This focus is provided to assist in describing the teachings and should not be interpreted as a limitation on the scope or applicability of the teachings. However other teachings can certainly be used in this application. The teachings can also be used in other applications and with several different types of architectures such as distributed computing architectures client server architectures or middleware server architectures and associated resources.

Buttons and and touch screen represent user input devices that are operable to receive input from a user of mobile device . In the case of buttons and the functions associated with the user inputs to each button are predetermined and are consistent across multiple modes of operation of mobile device . For example home button can operate to cancel functions that are being performed by mobile device and to display a home page for the mobile device. Menu button can operate to display a menu associated with a currently operating function of mobile device . Back button can operate to display a previously operating function or previously shown display on touch screen . Touch screen represents a dual purpose element of mobile device providing a primary visual output device of the mobile device and providing a touch based input device to the mobile device. As a touch based input device touch screen associates locations on the touch screen with different inputs which when depressed by a user operate to direct the functions of mobile device . For example from a home screen touching a location that is displaying an icon can operate to launch an application associated with the icon. In another example in a text entry application a location associated with alphanumeric inputs represented by a keyboard touching a location that is displaying a particular alphanumeric character can operate to input the character into the text. In a particular embodiment mobile device includes one or more additional input devices disposed within a case of the mobile device such as a vibration sensor an orientation sensor a rotation sensor an acceleration sensor a pressure sensor a geographic positioning sensor such as a Global Positioning System GPS sensor a free fall sensor another input device or a combination thereof as needed or desired. Output devices on mobile device include speaker and touch screen . Mobile device includes one or more additional output devices that are disposed within the case of the mobile device such as an auxiliary display on the back side of the mobile device one or more additional speaker a vibrator another output device or a combination thereof as needed or desired.

In a particular embodiment mobile device operates to receive inputs from the input devices in order to determine a context within which the mobile device is operating and to modify the behavior of the output devices in response to the context. Here the input devices can be used to recognize various ambient conditions. For example camera can detect that the image in the field of view is constantly changing and mobile device can thus infer that the mobile device is in motion. Here one or more of the additional input devices such as a vibration sensor an orientation sensor a rotation sensor an acceleration sensor or a geographic positioning sensor can provide additional context information related to the motion of mobile device . In another example camera can determine an ambient light level. Further microphone can detect an ambient noise level. Moreover one or more of the additional input devices such as a geographic positioning sensor can provide additional context information related to the location of mobile device .

In response to the various contextual information received from the input devices or embedded sensors mobile device modifies the behavior of the output devices in order to improve a user s experience in interacting with the mobile device. For example when the context for mobile device is determined to be one of chaotic motion such as when a user is walking or riding along a bumpy road the mobile device can perform adjustments to the image displayed on touch screen so as to simplify and un clutter the image. Here various non functional aspects of the display can be eliminated such as status bar information or unused icons. Additionally more relevant portions of the remaining display image can be enlarged to more fully fill touch screen . For example only the content of a web browser can be displayed and various search bars scroll bars menus and the like can be eliminated from the image.

Further various display and input enhancements can be applied that compensate for a less steady hand when mobile device is in motion. For example when touch screen displays a keypad and mobile device is in motion a touch averaging can be applied to more accurately gage the user s intent when entering text to a moving mobile device. Thus when a user intends to select a character their hand may move between the intended character and an adjacent character. Here additional pixels of touch screen can be ascribed to each character as described below to ensure that the user s intent is more accurately determined. In addition mobile device can average an amount of time spent in each area of touch screen to determine which character is selected for a longer duration thereby inferring the user s intent. In a further step if the averaging is unavailing to determine the user s intent the screen image can be modified to display the alternate characters in a much larger field of touch panel thereby giving the user a larger target to select from.

Additionally when the context for mobile device is determined to be one high brightness or low brightness the mobile device can perform adjustments to the image displayed on touch screen so as to either brighten or darken the image. Further mobile device can adapt the colors of the display to provide improved image contrast. Further when the ambient noise level is determined to be high mobile device can perform various audio enhancements such as beam forming noise cancellation and white noise generation. When the location for mobile device is determined the mobile device can also add features and functionality that is tailored to the location. For example a language pack for mobile device can automatically be downloaded when the mobile device determines that it is in a different country.

Context selector module operates to receive context information from context sensor system and to direct the adjustments to the output devices of mobile system . In particular context selector module receives the information from the sensors and and based upon various threshold levels for each sensor determines whether or not an output is to be adjusted and if so by how much. Context selector module accesses policy database to determine the threshold levels which output to adjust and the degree to which the output is to be adjusted. As such policy database includes various policy settings for determining the sensor thresholds for each sensor and the output adjustments associated with each sensor and each threshold and the degree to which the output is to be adjusted.

Table 1 illustrates an embodiment of policy database . Here policy database includes a default policy motion based policies brightness based policies and sound based policies. The default policy is defined in terms of a nominal value for motion sensors that indicate that the motion of mobile device is less than 10 nominal values for image sensors that indicate that the brightness is in a midrange of between 30 and 70 and nominal values for sound sensors that indicate that the ambient sound is less than 20 . Here the policy indicates that no adjustments are to be made to the outputs when sensors and are within these values. The motion based polices are defined in terms of value ranges for motion sensors that are outside of the nominal range. Here when motion sensors indicate that the motion of mobile device is between 10 and 40 the mobile device can perform screen un cluttering when the sensors indicate that the motion is between 40 and 80 the mobile device can also perform image enhancement and when the sensors indicate that the motion is between 80 and 100 the mobile device can further perform keypad enhancement. Brightness and sound policies are similarly defined in policy database as indicated.

It will be understood that additional polices can be provided and that the threshold levels are exemplary values. Further the skilled artisan will recognize that different polices that are based upon various combinations of sensor inputs are possible. Moreover percentages are used herein to describe the sensor inputs. However other measures of sensor input can be utilized as needed or desired. For example sound levels can be defined in terms of decibels brightness can be defined in terms of candle power motion can be defined in terms of a g force reading from an accelerometer or other definitions can be utilized. In a particular embodiment policy database can be accessed via a user interface that allows a user of mobile device to add remove change or update policies and to create custom policies.

Context selector module operates to direct the adjustments to the output devices of mobile system via two different methods. In the first method context selector module operates to provide selected context outputs to API which utilizes hooks into OS software stack to manipulate the behavior of the outputs at the OS or application software level. OS software stack includes an application reduction module a video output an audio output and a touch pad input . Here OS software stack provides hooks to API that are used to modify the output behavior of the OS software stack. In a particular embodiment API uses hooks into OS software stack to access application reduction module to close a program that running in the background on mobile device or to shut down a thread associated with a program. In this way the image displayed on display is un cluttered. For example where a time date dashboard is displayed in the default operation mode application reduction module can shut down the time date dashboard application to un clutter the display in one or more of the motion based operation modes.

In another embodiment API uses hooks into OS software stack to access core functions of the OS or the software running on mobile device . For example where OS software stack operates to display a status bar in the default operation mode API can direct the OS software stack to keep the status bar running but to remove the status bar to further un clutter the display in one or more of the motion based operation modes. In another embodiment API uses hooks into one or more of video output audio output and touch pad input to directly change the outputs. For example API can directly manipulate contrast and brightness settings of video output to implement one or more of the brightness operation modes and can directly manipulate sound shaping settings of audio output to implement one or more of the sound operation modes. Similarly API can direct touch pad input to implement various key pad enhancements as needed or desired. The skilled artisan will recognize that although API is described as a single element of mobile device one or more additional APIs can be present in the mobile device each being tailored the specific needs or capabilities of different OS features or software programs operating on the mobile device.

In the second method of directing the adjustments to the output devices context selector module provide the selected context outputs to context adjuster module which directly manipulates the behavior of the outputs from OS software stack . Context adjuster module includes a video adjuster module an audio adjuster module and a touch pad adjuster module . Here video adjuster module operates in line between video output module and display to perform various context based adjustments to the displayed image. For example where video output module provides an image display for an application in the default operation mode video adjuster module can resize and reposition the image enhancing the actual image displayed on display to include only a most commonly used portion of the original image in one or more of the motion based operation modes.

Returning to audio adjuster module operates in line between audio output module and speaker to perform various context based adjustments to the sound from the speaker. For example where audio output module provides a sound signal in the default operation mode audio adjuster module can perform various beam forming techniques or noise cancellation functions or add white noise to the signal provided to speaker in one or more of the sound based operation modes.

Returning again to touch pad adjuster module operates in line between touch pad and touch pad input to perform various context based adjustments to the operation of the touch pad. For example working in conjunction with video adjuster module touch pad adjuster module provides enhancements to a keypad function. For example when mobile device is in a normal operation mode a user selects a character from a keypad. However when mobile device is in a motion based operation mode touch pad adjuster can average an amount of time that a touch is above various characters of the keypad to determine the user s intent or can enhance one or more key entry pads to make it easier to select the intended character.

Information handling system includes a processor and one or more additional processors a chipset a memory a graphics interface include a basic input and output system extensible firmware interface BIOS EFI module a disk controller a disk emulator an input output I O interface a network interface and a management controller MC . Processor is connected to chipset via processor interface and processor is connected to the chipset via processor interface . Memory is connected to chipset via a memory bus . Graphics interface is connected to chipset via a graphics interface and provides a video display output to a video display . In a particular embodiment information handling system includes separate memories that are dedicated to each of processors and via separate memory interfaces. An example of memory includes random access memory RAM such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM non volatile RAM NV RAM or the like read only memory ROM another type of memory or a combination thereof.

BIOS EFI module disk controller and I O interface are connected to chipset via an I O channel . An example of I O channel includes a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI interface a PCI Extended PCI X interface a high speed PCI Express PCIe interface another industry standard or proprietary communication interface or a combination thereof. Chipset can also include one or more other I O interfaces including an Industry Standard Architecture ISA interface a Small Computer Serial Interface SCSI interface an Inter Integrated Circuit IC interface a System Packet Interface SPI a Universal Serial Bus USB another interface or a combination thereof. BIOS EFI module includes BIOS EFI code operable to detect resources within information handling system to provide drivers for the resources initialize the resources and access the resources. BIOS EFI module includes code that operates to detect resources within information handling system to provide drivers for the resources to initialize the resources and to access the resources.

Disk controller includes a disk interface that connects the disc controller to a hard disk drive HDD to an optical disk drive ODD and to disk emulator . An example of disk interface includes an Integrated Drive Electronics IDE interface an Advanced Technology Attachment ATA such as a parallel ATA PATA interface or a serial ATA SATA interface a SCSI interface a USB interface a proprietary interface or a combination thereof. Disk emulator permits a solid state drive to be coupled to information handling system via an external interface . An example of external interface includes a USB interface an IEEE 1394 Firewire interface a proprietary interface or a combination thereof. Alternatively solid state drive can be disposed within information handling system .

I O interface includes a peripheral interface that connects the I O interface to an add on resource and to network interface . Peripheral interface can be the same type of interface as I O channel or can be a different type of interface. As such I O interface extends the capacity of I O channel when peripheral interface and the I O channel are of the same type and the I O interface translates information from a format suitable to the I O channel to a format suitable to the peripheral channel when they are of a different type. Add on resource can include a data storage system an additional graphics interface a network interface card NIC a sound video processing card another add on resource or a combination thereof. Add on resource can be on a main circuit board on separate circuit board or add in card disposed within information handling system a device that is external to the information handling system or a combination thereof.

In a particular embodiment add on resource includes an option ROM not illustrated . The option ROM is a firmware component supplied by the maker of add on resource and that operates to initialize and configure the add on resource during boot of information handling system . The option ROM extends the functionality of BIOS EFI module to incorporate the functionality of add on resource into information handling system . As such the option ROM provides an interface between BIOS EFI module and add on resource permitting the BIOS EFI module to implement functions specific to the add on resource such as power on self test interrupt service or input output service calls. The option ROM may be in memory or in a memory of add on resource .

Network interface represents a NIC disposed within information handling system on a main circuit board of the information handling system integrated onto another component such as chipset in another suitable location or a combination thereof. Network interface device includes network channels and that provide interfaces to devices that are external to information handling system . In a particular embodiment network channels and are of a different type than peripheral channel and network interface translates information from a format suitable to the peripheral channel to a format suitable to external devices. An example of network channels and includes InfiniBand channels Fibre Channel channels Gigabit Ethernet channels proprietary channel architectures or a combination thereof. Network channels and can be coupled to external network resources not illustrated . The network resource can include another information handling system a data storage system another network a grid management system another suitable resource or a combination thereof.

MC is connected to processors and chipset memory and BIOS EFI module via a system communication bus . MC may be on a main circuit board such as a baseboard a motherboard or a combination thereof integrated onto another component such as chipset in another suitable location or a combination thereof. In a particular embodiment one or more additional resources of information handling system such as graphics interface video display I O interface disk controller and network interface are connected to MC . MC can be part of an integrated circuit or a chip set within information handling system and can be on a main circuit board on separate circuit board or add in card disposed within the information handling system or a combination thereof. An example of MC includes a baseboard management controller BMC an integrated Dell remote access controller iDRAC another controller or a combination thereof. An example of system communication bus includes an inter integrated circuit IC bus a system management bus SMBus a serial peripheral interface SPI bus a low pin count LPC bus another bus or a combination thereof.

MC is connected via a network channel to a management station that is external to information handling system . Management station operates in conjunction with management controller to provide out of band management of information handling system . Commands communications or other signals are communicated between MC and management station to monitor status of information handling system to control the operations of the resources of the information handling system and to update the resources. In a particular embodiment MC is powered by a separate power plane in information handling system so that the MC can be operated while other portions of the information handling system are powered off. In another embodiment MC is operated during boot of information handling system .

Although only a few exemplary embodiments have been described in detail herein those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover any and all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments that fall within the scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

