---

title: Combining bandwidth from multiple cellular connections into a single WLAN network
abstract: A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an instruction to aggregate cellular bandwidth of a user device with the cellular bandwidth of one or more participating user devices; appending a shared character string to a network name of the user device based on receiving the instruction; scanning for wireless local area networks (WLANs) after appending the shared character string; identifying one or more WLAN networks with the network names having the shared character string, where the one or more WLAN networks are hosted by the one or more participating user devices; connecting to a particular WLAN network, of the one or more WLAN networks via a WLAN interface of the user device; combining bandwidth from the cellular interface of the user device with the bandwidth from the WLAN interface of the user device; and hosting a WLAN network providing a sum of the bandwidth from the WLAN interface and the cellular interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473987&OS=09473987&RS=09473987
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09473987
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151112
---
The present invention generally relates to bandwidth aggregation and more particularly to bandwidth aggregation from multiple cellular devices.

A user device can access a cellular network for connectivity to external networks e.g. the Internet . The cellular network establishes a bearer connection with the user device and provides the user device with a certain amount of network bandwidth. The amount of network bandwidth is limited by the bearer policies set by a service provider of the cellular network. A user device may host a WiFi network e.g. a WiFi hotspot in which the cellular connection of the user device is shared with companion devices e.g. another user device such as a laptop tablet device etc. .

The bandwidth of the companion device is limited to the bandwidth of the cellular connection of the user device. A group users may need to use their companion devices to access an ad hoc WiFi hotspot with greater throughput than any of their cellular devices can provide individually. For example a team of co workers may need to connect their laptop PCs or tablets to a local WiFi network for collaborative work and the team may need that local WiFi network to have high speed Internet access to be shared by all of the laptops and tablets. There currently is no known application or algorithm that enables users to voluntarily and automatically combine the wireless wide area broadband e.g. cell phone bandwidth of their individual devices into a single higher speed connection to the Internet that can be made available for a WiFi hotspot.

In an aspect of the invention a computer implemented method includes receiving by a user device connected to a cellular network via a cellular interface of the user device an instruction to aggregate cellular bandwidth of the user device with the cellular bandwidth of one or more participating user devices appending by the user device a shared character string to a network name of the user device based on receiving the instruction scanning by the user device for wireless local area networks WLANs after appending the shared character string identifying by the user device one or more WLAN networks with the network names having the shared character string where the one or more WLAN networks are hosted by the one or more participating user devices connecting by the user device to a particular WLAN network of the one or more WLAN networks via a WLAN interface of the user device combining by the user device bandwidth from the cellular interface of the user device with the bandwidth from the WLAN interface of the user device and hosting by the user device a WLAN network providing a sum of the bandwidth from the WLAN interface and the cellular interface.

In another aspect of the invention there is a computer program product for aggregating bandwidth from a plurality of cellular connections. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith. The program instructions are executable by a user device to cause the user device to receive an instruction to aggregate cellular bandwidth of the user device with the cellular bandwidth of one or more participating user devices append a shared character string to a network name of the user device based on receiving the instruction host a wireless local area network WLAN after appending the shared character string disconnect devices from the WLAN except for a particular one of the one or more participating user devices having a network name with the shared character string and a current sequence character string scan for WLANs hosted by other devices identify one or more WLAN networks hosted by the other devices with the network names having the shared character string connect to a particular WLAN network of the one or more WLAN networks via a WLAN interface of the user device and combine bandwidth from a cellular interface of the user device with the bandwidth from the WLAN interface of the user device where the WLAN hosted by the user device provides a sum of the bandwidth from the WLAN interface and the cellular interface.

In another aspect of the invention a system comprising a user device comprising a CPU a computer readable memory and a computer readable storage medium associated with a computing device program instructions to receive an instruction to aggregate cellular bandwidth of the user device with the cellular bandwidth of a participating user device program instructions to append a shared character string to a network name of the user device based on receiving the instruction program instructions to scan for wireless local area networks WLANs after appending the shared character string program instructions to identify a WLAN hosted by the participating user device based on a network name of the WLAN having the shared character string program instructions to connect to the WLAN network via a WLAN interface of the user device program instructions to combine bandwidth from a cellular interface of the user device with bandwidth from the WLAN interface of the user device and program instructions to host a WLAN network providing a sum of the bandwidth from the WLAN interface and the cellular interface where the bandwidth from the WLAN interface includes the bandwidth from a cellular interface of the participating user device. The program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage medium for execution by the CPU via the computer readable memory.

The present invention generally relates to bandwidth aggregation and more particularly to bandwidth aggregation from multiple cellular devices. In accordance with aspects of the present invention an application is provided that automatically combines the cellular data bandwidth of two or more mobile devices into a single faster pipe of bandwidth that is made available for a WiFi hotspot. Aspects of the present invention include an algorithm to enable multiple devices to auto negotiate the sequencing labeling and aggregation of the nodes that make up the combined bandwidth.

In aspects of the invention bandwidth from multiple user devices e.g. cellular user devices such as mobile cellular phones that access a cellular network is aggregated and the aggregated bandwidth is made available to companion devices via a WiFi network implemented by one of the multiple user devices. Advantageously companion devices can connect to a single WiFi network and have access to an aggregated amount of network bandwidth provided by multiple user devices. As an illustrative example a group of users each having their own user devices may aggregate the cellular bandwidth from each user device to create a WiFi network having the aggregated cellular bandwidth. Companion devices can then be connected to the WiFi network so that the companion devices have access to a greater amount of bandwidth for collaborative work or other applications requiring greater bandwidth than a single cellular connection could provide. In embodiments service agreements within an individual s cellular service provider could impose limitations on how cellular connections are combined and how much data may be utilized via a combined cellular connection.

As an example a group of users may need to use their companion devices to access an ad hoc WiFi hotspot with greater throughput than any of their cellular devices can provide individually. For example a team of co workers may need to connect their laptop PCs or tablets to a local WiFi network for collaborative work and the team may need that local WiFi network to have high speed Internet access to be shared by all of the laptops and tablets. A second example is that a classroom in a remote location may not have access to high speed wired Internet access. The teacher could direct the students to share their bandwidth so that the classroom would have access to high bandwidth applications. As described herein an auto negotiation process is implemented in order to aggregate cellular bandwidth from multiple user devices and provide the aggregated bandwidth in a single WiFi network.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowcharts may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a computer infrastructure is shown. Computer infrastructure is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless computer infrastructure is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove.

In computer infrastructure there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in computer infrastructure is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a nonremovable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

As further shown in the user devices and may be daisy chained to one another in order to aggregate the cellular bandwidth from each user device and create a single WiFi network also referred to as a WiFi hotspot or a hotspot network having the aggregate cellular bandwidth across the user devices and . Companion devices and may then connect to the WiFi network and have access to the aggregate cellular bandwidth. For example multiple companion devices may simultaneously connect to the WiFi network inside of one parent session. Load balancing may direct the traffic to the sub connection that is least utilized at the moment. Alternatively a single companion device may connect to the WiFi network and the amount of bandwidth available is the sum of the bandwidth of the individual cellular connections. As described herein each user device may include one more of the components in to auto negotiate the connections used to aggregate the cellular bandwidth into a single WiFi network.

Each of user devices and has two input data interfaces and one output data interface. For example each user device has a cellular interface and a WiFi input interface. The cellular interface is used to connect with the cellular network device and the WiFi input interface is used to scan and connect to a wireless LAN WLAN such as a WiFi network. Thus a user device may have two input connections e.g. a connection with a cellular network and a connection with a WiFi network . The output data interface e.g. a hotspot interface is used to create a WiFi network e.g. a WiFi hotspot . The bandwidth of the WiFi hotspot is the sum of the bandwidth of the bandwidth from the two input connections.

In the example of cellular interfaces for the user devices and are denoted as C C and C respectively. The WiFi input interfaces for user devices and are denoted as W W and W respectively. The output data interface i.e. hotspot interface for the user devices and are denoted as H H and H respectively. As previously described each of the user devices and connect to the cellular network device e.g. using C C and C respectively .

As shown in the user device is connected to the user device and the user device is connected to the user device . The user device hosts an aggregated WiFi network e.g. using its hotspot interface H . For example the hotspot interface of the user device H hosts a WiFi network with which the user device connects using a WLAN interface WiFi interface of user device W . Similarly the hotspot interface of the user device H hosts a WiFi network with which the user device connects using the WiFi interface of user device W . The user device may host a WiFi hotspot using H that has a bandwidth that is the sum of the bandwidth from the connection of C and the connection of W e.g. the sum of the bandwidth of the connections of C and C . Thus the bandwidth of the WiFi network implemented by H is the sum of the bandwidth of the C C and C connections.

User device has an input cellular connection using C and input WiFi connection using W. For example user device connects to the WiFi hotspot implemented by user device . The user device hosts a WiFi hotspot using H. The amount of bandwidth provided by H is equal to the bandwidth of the C connection and the bandwidth of the W connection which in this illustrative example is the bandwidth provided by the H connection which is the sum of the bandwidth provided by the C connection and C connection. Thus the amount of bandwidth provided by the H connection is the sum of the bandwidth provided by the C C and C connections. In embodiments one or more companion devices may connect to the hotspot network implemented by user device thereby having the aggregate bandwidth of the cellular connections across user device and .

At step a shared character string is appended to the network name of a user device . For example the shared character string is appended when the user device receives an instruction from a user of user device to combine cellular connections from multiple other participating user devices and host a WiFi hotspot with which companion devices may connect. In embodiments the user device may receive this instruction via a user interface associated with a connection aggregation application used to facilitate the aggregation of multiple cellular connections. This connection aggregation application may be used to permit other user devices to have their cellular connections aggregated.

As an illustrative example users of three user devices e.g. user device user device and user device may open the application and select to participate in a cellular connection aggregation network. One of the user devices may be designated as the master user device that hosts a hotspot having the bandwidth of aggregated cellular connections across the user device user device and user device . In this example assume that the user device is the master user device and the user devices and user device are participating user devices. The participating user devices may receive instructions from their respective users e.g. via the application to combine cellular connections and with the master user device. For example the participating user devices may input or select a network name of the master user device. The steps of may be performed by the master user device as opposed to the participating user devices.

In embodiments user device may append a shared character string to the network name of user device to indicate that user device is sharing its cellular connection for aggregation. Also user devices and user devices may append a shared character string to their network names. As an example if the network name for the user device is currently User A s Phone the user device may append the shared character string Shared cell thus updating the network name of user device to User A s Phone Shared cell .

In embodiments the shared character string may be a random string of characters or a custom string of characters that is then shared privately among participating user devices . For example the connection aggregation application may be used to permit a user to customize the shared character string or randomly generate a shared character string. Once a character string has been selected either a customized or randomly generated string the connection aggregation application running on the master user device may privately transmit information identifying the shared character string to the participating user devices . For example the master user device may send a text message with the shared character string to the participating user devices and the connection aggregation application may use an application programming interface API to access the text message. For example the connection aggregation application of the participating user devices may access text messages sent by the content aggregation application of the master user device . Alternatively the shared character string may be privately communicated between the master user device the participating user devices using some other technique. For example users may manually enter a shared character string that the users have mutually selected. The shared character string may be custom or random so that other user devices may not be accidentally construed as participating user devices .

At step the user device activates its hotspot interface to create a WiFi network. The name of the WiFi network is the updated network name of the user device e.g. User A s Phone Shared cell . Other participating user devices and may also create WiFi networks with network names having the shared character strings.

At step the user device scans for WLANs WiFi networks using its WiFi interface. At step the user device generates a list of WiFi networks with names having the appended shared character string e.g. WiFi networks hosted by the other participating user devices and .

At step the user device appends a sequence character string after the shared character string to its client network name. For example the user device may append the sequence character string   thereby updating the client network name of the user device to User A s Phone Shared cell  . The sequence character indicates that user device will share its bandwidth when it connects to a WiFi network hosted by a participating user device .

At step the user device connects to a particular WiFi network having the shared character string. For example the user device may connect to one of the WiFi networks in the list of WiFi networks generated at step . In embodiments the user device may use any number of selection techniques to select a particular one of the WiFi networks with which to connect. For example the user device may randomly select one of the WiFi networks or may select the WiFi network having the strongest signal. The user device may connect to the WiFi network using its WiFi interface and using its client network name that includes the shared character string and the sequence character string.

At step the user device may combine the bandwidth from the WiFi interface with the bandwidth from the cellular interface and provide the bandwidth via the hotspot interface. For example the user device may combine the bandwidth using any number of conventional bandwidth aggregation and load balancing techniques. As a result the WiFi hotspot created by the user device combines the bandwidth from multiple cellular connections and companion devices may connect to the WiFi hotspot to utilize the combined or aggregated bandwidth.

At step the user device appends a shared character string to the network name of the user device e.g. in a similar manner as described above with respect to step of . For example assume that the shared character string is  Shared cell and that the network name is User B s cell phone . As a result the updated network name of user device is User B s cell phone Shared cell .

At step the user device activates its hotspot interface e.g. to host a WiFi network . The name of the WiFi network is the updated network name generated at step e.g. User B s cell phone Shared cell . At step the user device may connect as a client to the user device whose network name has the shared character string. The user device connects using an appended sequence character string to the WiFi network hosted by user device . In this example the user device may connect the user device whose client network name is  Shared cell  e.g. user device . That is user device may connect to the WiFi network hosted by user device . For a subsequent connection user device may connect to a WiFi network hosted by user device and so on.

At step the user device may disconnect all devices except for the user device whose network name has the current sequence character string from the WiFi network implemented by user device . This is performed to prevent other devices from utilizing bandwidth provided by the hotspot interface of user device .

At step the user device may set a flag to refuse additional connections to its hotspot interface e.g. to the WiFi network implemented to by the user device . This is performed to prevent other devices from utilizing bandwidth provided by the hotspot interface of user device .

At step the user device may increment the sequence character string e.g. of user device . In this example the sequence character string is incremented to   . At step the incremented character string is appended after the shared character string of the client network name of the user device . In this example the updated client network name of user device is User B s cell phone Shared cell  .

At step the user device appends an incremented sequence character string after the shared character string to the client network name of the user device.

At step the user device may scan for WiFi networks. At step the user device generates a list of available WiFi networks with appended shared character strings that are not the master device.

At step the user device may connect to a particular WiFi network having a network name with the shared character string that is not the master device. For example the user device may connect to one of the WiFi networks in the list of WiFi networks generated at step . As described above with respect to step of the user device may use any number of selection techniques to select a particular one of the WiFi networks with which to connect. For example the user device may randomly select one of the WiFi networks or may select the WiFi network having the strongest signal. The user device may connect to the WiFi network using its WiFi interface.

At step the user device may combine the bandwidth from its WiFi interface with the bandwidth from its cellular interface and provide the combined bandwidth via the hotspot interface. For example the user device may combine the bandwidth using any number of conventional bandwidth aggregation and load balancing techniques. As a result the WiFi hotspot created by the user device combines the bandwidth from multiple interfaces and provides the combined bandwidth towards a master user device .

The process of may be repeated for any number of participating user devices . As a result multiple user devices may be daisy chained via their respective WiFi and hotspot interfaces and the cellular connections are aggregated across all participating user devices . Further the connections between multiple user devices are automatically negotiated in accordance with the processes of .

In embodiments a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. the computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. These customers may be for example any business that uses technology. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In still additional embodiments the invention provides a computer implemented method for aggregating cellular connections via a network. In this case a computer infrastructure such as computer system can be provided and one or more systems for performing the processes of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system as shown in from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the processes of the invention.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

