---

title: Web document annotation service
abstract: Annotating web content, in one aspect, may include detecting a request to navigate to a web site for content on a web browser. A component such as a web browser plugin, extension or the like transmits a uniform resource locator (URL) associated with the web site to a computer-implemented service that stores annotations to the content separate from the web site that is providing the content, and receives from the computer-implemented service one or more annotations to the content. The web browser plugin or the like renders the one or more annotations within the content from the web site. The content rendered with the annotations may be displayed within a display window of the web browser.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519632&OS=09519632&RS=09519632
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09519632
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151222
---
The present application relates generally to computers and computer applications and more particularly to a web document annotation service in a computing environment that may include a shared pool of configurable computing resources.

Publically accessible content on the Internet is owned by many different entities. Much of this content can be utilized for seeding a corpus for cognitive technologies such as Watson from International Business Machines Corporation IBM of Armonk N.Y. Cognitive technologies then may add value to this content. The entity performing the cognitive techniques on the content may own the added value of the content if it is maintained separately from the third party content. For example machine annotations of entities and relationships in a third party owned online news article may be owned by the cognitive technology entity that produced the annotations while the online news article is still owned by the third party. As another example an online community of users hosted on a platform created by the entity can generate relevant data about both the third party content and the entity owned content which would also be owned by the entity. For instance a discussion of the entities relationships the entity s other content would be owned by the entity.

It is therefore desirable to maintain a separation between third party content and a particular entity owned content while also being able to combine the two in a simple intuitive efficient permitted manner.

A computer implemented method and system of annotating web content may be provided. The method in one aspect may include detecting a request to navigate to a web site for content on a web browser. The method may also include transmitting a uniform resource locator URL associated with the web site to a computer implemented service that stores annotations to the content separate from the web site that is providing the content. The method may also include receiving from the computer implemented service one or more annotations to the content. The method may further include rendering the one or more annotations within the content from the web site. The method may also include displaying within a display window of the web browser the content rendered with the annotations.

A system of annotating web content in one aspect may include a hardware processor communicatively coupled to a communication network. A web browser component may execute on the hardware processor cooperatively with a web browser and may be operable to detect a request to navigate to a web site for content. The web browser component may be further operable to transmit a uniform resource locator URL associated with the web site over the communication network to a computer implemented service that stores annotations to the content separate from the web site that is providing the content. The web browser component may be further operable to receive from the computer implemented service one or more annotations to the content. The web browser component may be further operable to render the one or more annotations within the content from the web site. The content rendered with the annotations may be displayed within a display window of the web browser.

A computer readable storage medium storing a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform one or more methods described herein also may be provided.

Further features as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

Social network or media platforms or services for example implemented via one or more computer servers allow user to communicate online and share interests. For instance users may post and blog information or discussion to a group of audience for example in the user s online community of friends via a user interface such as a browser and view others posts and blogs.

These are platforms where users can also share and discuss third party content such as news articles. These discussions occur entirely on the platforms not within the article itself or through embedded web plugins for example a social network application s plugin embedded in a display that shows the news article for example usually at the bottom of a news article.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a cloud based system and method are presented for marking up a web document with third party content e.g. an entity owned content such as annotations and discussions from users occurring via an entity owned platform directly in the document itself. In one embodiment of a method and or system of the present disclosure these mark ups are facilitated through the use of a computer executable component that can be added on to a browser or the like e.g. a browser plugin or extension or the like. Users are able to consume the value of both the document contents as well as relevant entity content without having to load each separately.

It is understood in advance that although this disclosure includes a description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed. Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based e mail . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises. Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

The cloud computing paradigm may be different from other computing domains for example in that the cloud can be viewed to an extent as having infinite scalability. For instance while in traditional projects managers are constrained by the number of resources to perform a task in the cloud one can assign as many resources as one may want to perform a task. Releasing resources in the cloud can be instantaneous which may not be the case with regular project management. With the cloud computing one can start with a very small number of resources and grow as needed paying only for what was used.

A browser plugin may include a computer executable component or program that adds a specific feature to a web browser e.g. an existing web browser. For instance the browser plugin may utilize a web browser s registration mechanism to register with the web browser and a data exchange mechanism to exchange data with the web browser. For example application programming interfaces APIs of a web browser may be used to implement plug ins. A browser plugin may be updated and modified without having to also modify the web browser. A browser plugin may be written in computer compiler interpreter languages.

A browser extension may include a computer executable component or program that may perform added functionality to a web browser e.g. an existing web browser for example providing additional capability to the web browser. A browser extension may add onto the web browser s user interface and process web pages or content that the browser loads. A browser extension may be written in many different computer compiler interpreter languages. A browser s APIs may be used to implement a browser extension.

The browser plugin and or extension may query the cloud service for relevant content related to the currently loaded web document and facilitate the markups to the web document in place.

For example consider an example based on an online news article. A user using a web browser navigates to a news web site via a communication and or data network and loads a news article on the news web site in the web browser . A browser plugin of the present disclosure in one embodiment for example functionally integrated with the browser may submit the uniform resource locator URL of the news article to a cloud service of the present disclosure in one embodiment. The cloud service in one embodiment may look up relevant content for the news article based on the URL. This content may include a Discussions that occurred between users regarding the content for example while they were viewing the content for instance discussions between users around a highlighted sentence within an article b Highlighted annotations of key entities and relationships within the article c Machine translations to other languages of the article contents d Indication of sentiment to the content e.g. words indicating sentiment e.g. positive or negative . This information may be stored in the cloud service . Existing text analysis cloud services for example which may utilize sophisticated natural language processing NLP algorithms may be used to automatically analyze the news article URL and provide a language analysis. The analysis may include extracting or detecting elements such as entities keywords taxonomy concepts sentiment and relationships.

In one embodiment the content is returned from the cloud service to the browser plugin as an array of markups containing dictionaries and or tuples. For instance the content returned may contain a Character position within the article where the markup is anchored b Length of change c Delta or change content to be applied to the content at the anchor over given length e.g. translated text highlight and or d Additional content to be tethered at the anchor e.g. user discussions . A plurality or an array of such content may be provided by the service and received at the browser e.g. via the browser plugin .

The hashes may be used to verify that the source content that is being changed is what is intended and that it has not been modified or deviate from that intended change. For example if a news article has been modified either corrected or expanded previous changes may no longer be relevant. In one embodiment the first hash validates that the content body as a whole is identical to what was originally seen. The second hash is a hash of the changes portions of the content being changed e.g. shown at and represents what is being changed. In one embodiment using one or both of the two hashes change may be invalidated if any of the content has changed and or if only the content that is the target of the change has changed .

The enumerated type of change represents the operation to be performed. Examples of enumerated types may include but are not limited to items such as replace highlight strikethrough embed image pop up comments and or others. For example following a quote by a user an embedded image may be added with an emoticon that indicates the sentiment of the quote.

In one embodiment the object change varies based on the enumerated type of change . In the above example of an embedded image the corresponding object change may be the actual emoticon. As another example if the enumerated type of change is a replace type a corresponding object change may be the replacement text.

Referring to in one embodiment a computer executable component such as the browser plugin orders the changes by character position and performs a scan over the document applying changes at each anchor point. The changes are rendered within the browser display for the end user. For instance a computer executable component such as the browser plugin or the browser cooperating with the computer executable component e.g. browser plugin may display the data or changes in a corresponding character position of the content displayed in the browser display.

At the web browser plugin may transmit the uniform resource locator URL associated with the web site to a computer implemented service that stores annotations to the content. The computer implemented service is separate from the web site or web server that is providing the content and may be a different entity. For instance an entity performing cognitive analysis on various content available on web sites may store the results of the cognitive analysis associated with different web site content on its computer system or platform. In one embodiment the computer implemented service is deployed on a computing environment comprising a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. the service may be a cloud based service.

The annotations to the content that is stored by the service and communicated to the web browser plugin may include one or more of discussions that occurred between users regarding the content entities and relationships within the article one or more machine translations to different languages of the contents or indication of sentiment to the content or combinations thereof.

At the web browser plugin receives from the computer implemented service one or more annotations to the content. The annotations received may include information such as a character position within the content where the annotations are anchored length of change in the content and the change to be applied to the content at the anchor over the length. For instance the web browser plugin may receive a data string comprising the URL a data array comprising a character position within the content and an array of changes at the character position.

At the web browser plugin renders the one or more annotations within the content from the web site. For example the web browser plugin may order the changes by the character position e.g. if not already in an order scan the content and apply the changes to the content at the character position.

At the content rendered with the annotations may be displayed within a display window of the web browser.

While the above description may use the terminology browser plugin and browser extension the methodology of the present disclosure may be implemented as another computer executable component performing similar functionality for example any other computer executable component that can cooperate with a browser to perform functionalities described herein.

The computer system may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The computer system may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

The components of computer system may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor . The processor may include a module that performs the methods described herein. The module may be programmed into the integrated circuits of the processor or loaded from memory storage device or network or combinations thereof. The module may be a web browser plugin module or the like component. In another aspect the module may implement a service that stores content annotations which may transmit the annotations to a web browser plugin module at a remote location.

Bus may represent one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system may include a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system and it may include both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory or others. Computer system may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media e.g. a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces.

Computer system may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces .

Still yet computer system can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system. Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements if any in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

