---

title: Tune-in button
abstract: A system and a method are disclosed for selecting a television function on a channel control system through a mobile device. A request to select the television function is received. The request may be generated in response to activating a link or element in an application configured on a computing device. The television function associated with the request is to select a television broadcast channel showing a particular television program. A channel showing the particular television program is determined. An infrared code comprising an instruction to select the television function associated with the determined channel is received. The system and method allow a user to access broadcast television programs from an online interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479828&OS=09479828&RS=09479828
owner: Peel Technologies, Inc.
number: 09479828
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150130
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 245 987 filed Apr. 4 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety

The disclosure generally relates to the field of television control and more specifically to sending instructions to a channel control system through a computing device.

Internet users increasingly share media content online. Users share media by posting links to images videos and articles on websites. For example a user may share a video on a social networking website. Connections of the user may interact with the shared video expanding the shared video s audience.

However some forms of media content cannot be posted online. Television shows for example are conventionally shown on broadcast television and cannot be linked to online. Users who wish to share portions of television shows with their friends must wait until the television show is uploaded or otherwise released online which may not occur until after the television show has been aired.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One example embodiment of a disclosed system method and computer readable storage medium for selecting a television function allows a user to select a television function through a computing device. A request from an application configured on a computing device to select a television function is received. In one embodiment the request to select the television function is a request to select a television channel showing a particular television program. A location identifier which identifies the location of the computing device is received. The location identifier is sent from a geolocation server in response to a request for the location identifier. A television function identifier which specifies a television function associated with the request to select the television function is received based on the received location identifier. The identified television function may be to select a channel currently showing the particular television program. The television function identifier is sent in response to sending a request to an electronic program guide server which determines a channel showing the particular television program. An infrared IR code which includes an instruction to perform the television function associated with the television function identifier is received. The IR code is subsequently output.

The computing device is an electronic device used to generate a request for an infrared IR code. The computing device may be a smartphone a tablet a personal computer PC or any other conventional computing device. The computing device may alternatively be a remote control or other conventional electronic device configured for use with a television system. The computing device includes a processor a system memory a user interface and a network interface. The processor may be a microprocessor or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that executes one or more instructions stored in the system memory and or processes input from the user interface. The user interface receives commands from the user to the computing device. The user interface may be one or more buttons knobs joysticks keypads touchscreens or other conventional user interfaces. Other user interfaces may additionally include a screen a display a light or other component that outputs information to a user of the computing device . The network interface connects the computing device to one or more wired or wireless networks. The network interface may use network technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G Long Term Evolution LTE code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL or other conventional network technologies. Examples of networking protocols used include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTPS simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . In some embodiments some or all of the data is encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

Some example embodiments of the computing device include an IR transmitter and or an IR receiver. The added IR components allow the computing device to send and or receive infrared signals. This allows the computing device to interface with many conventional channel control systems that only communicate through infrared signals. The IR transmitter and or receiver may be configured within the computing device or may be connected to the computing device as external hardware configured for use with the computing device.

The application programming interface API is software code that includes instructions to execute the disclosed method. The API may be configured to execute the disclosed method on the computing device . Alternatively the API may be configured to execute the disclosed method on a server comprising a processor and a non transitory computer storage medium connected to the computing device through a network. In one embodiment the API receives a request to select a television function from an application on the computing device . The API processes the request by sending and or receiving requests to various servers and databases which are described below. After processing the request to select the television function the API sends instructions for selecting the television function to the computing device .

The geolocation server determines the location of one or more computing devices . The geolocation server is a server comprising a database that associates a location with a computing device identity. The geolocation server receives a request for a location identifier associated with the computing device . The location may be presented as a ZIP code a set of latitude and longitude coordinates a street address or any other conventional location identifier. The request may be associated with a computing device identity. The computing device identity may be the computing device s internet protocol address a serial number or any other unique identifier associated with the computing device . Responsive to receiving the computing device s Internet Protocol IP address the geolocation server determines a location identifier associated with the computing device . Additionally or alternatively the geolocation server determines a service provider identifier associated with the computing device . The service provider associated with the service provider identifier is associated with the computing device . For example the service provider may be an internet service provider ISP providing network access to the computing device . Since users are likely to use the same service provider for all their home network services which may include phone internet TV services the service provider is likely to also provide television service to the user.

The electronic program guide EPG determines one or more channels a particular television program is playing on. The EPG comprises one or more databases that include program guide information. The program guide information lists one or more television channels showing one or more television programs. In this context television program may refer to a TV show a movie a media segment a video stream or a live TV feed. The program guide information may be specific to a service provider or a location. For example each location identifier or service provider identifier may be associated with a different set of program guide information.

In one or more embodiments the EPG is not limited to program guide information associated with broadcast television channels. In one or more embodiments the EPG additionally includes program guide information for channels or television programs hosted on one or more streaming websites. Examples of streaming websites include but are not limited to HULU NETFLIX and AMAZON PRIME INSTANT VIDEO. These examples of online streaming websites may comprise traditional broadcast channels and or on demand channels that begin showing a television program when the user accesses the channel.

The EPG receives a request for a television function identifier. In one example embodiment the television function associated with the television function identifier may be to select a channel showing a particular television program. The EPG determines the television function identifier by determining the channel showing the particular television program. The determination of the channel which is one of the channels included in the program guide information is based on the location identifier and or the service provider identifier. The television function identifier includes information that identifies the television channel including but not limited to a broadcast channel number e.g. Channel a broadcast channel frequency e.g. 54 60 MHz or a television station e.g. ABC . Other example embodiments of the television function include adjusting a television s volume output adjusting the television s picture turning the television on and off selecting the television s input or any other conventional television function.

In some cases the EPG cannot determine a channel showing the particular television program. In these cases the EPG may generate a notification stating the television program cannot be found. In other embodiments the EPG may include in the notification one or more inaccessible channels that are showing the particular television program. For example if the requested television program is only playing on HBO or on another premium cable channel the channel control system cannot access the EPG may return a notification stating that the television program is being shown on the inaccessible channel. Furthermore the notification may provide the option for accessing the channel for a fee or service upgrade.

In other cases the EPG determines one or more channels that showed the television program in the past if the EPG cannot determine a channel currently showing the television program. The EPG returns a television function identifier for selecting one of the channels that showed the television program in the past.

In other cases the EPG may determine that multiple channels are showing the disclosed television program. The EPG may determine which of the multiple channels showing the television to select based on channel viewership channel coverage advertising revenue or any other business logic. For example if a basketball game is being shown on a local channel and a national channel the EPG may give preference to the national channel. The EPG may also determine which of the multiple channels showing the disclosed television program to select based on the reception quality. For example the EPG may select the television channel showing the disclosed program in the highest picture quality.

The IR code database determines an instruction to select the television function. The IR code database is a server that stores one or more predetermined instructions. The IR code database may additionally or alternatively generate the instruction to select the television function.

The IR code database determines the infrared code associated with the television function identifier. The infrared code comprises instructions to select the television function identifier determined by the EPG . The IR code database receives a request for the infrared code. The IR code database determines the infrared code associated with the television function. The infrared code may be encoded in a specific communication format or standard. For example the infrared code may be encoded according to one of the RC 5 RC 6 SIRC S Link RECS 80 NEC IrPHY or any other conventional infrared communication formats.

The channel control system receives the instruction to select the television function. The channel control system includes a receiver configured to execute the television function in response to receiving the instruction to select the television function. The channel control system may be a set top box STB a digital video recorder DVR or a digital media player connected to a television. The channel control system may alternatively be configured within the television. In some embodiments instructions to select different television functions are received by different elements of the channel control system . For example the channel control system may include a television and a STB. The STB may receive instructions for selecting a channel while the television receives instructions for adjusting volume.

Referring now to illustrated is one embodiment of an application programming interface API that facilitates selecting a television function for a channel control system through a computing device according to one example embodiment. The illustrated embodiment of the API includes an application interface a network interface a TV configuration module a configuration database a location module a service provider module a program guide module and an IR code module . The modules may be embodied as hardware components software modules or a combination of both. Alternative embodiments of the API may include additional or alternative modules.

The application interface receives a request from an application configured on the computing device . The application may be any conventional application or software program. The request is for selecting a television function on the channel control system through the computing device . In one embodiment the request is for selecting on the channel control system a channel showing a particular television program. In this embodiment the request from the application includes information identifying the particular television program. In one example the request is received in response to a user interacting with an element in the application. For example the request may be in response to the user activating a posted link or other user interface element in the application that requests the particular television program to be displayed on a television.

The configuration module receives and processes configuration information. The configuration information includes model information associated with the channel control system . The model information indicates a communication standard used to communicate with the channel control system . For example configuration information identifying the channel control system as a cable or satellite television service provider e.g. COMCAST COX DIRECTTV DISH set top box may indicate that the channel control system communicates using infrared signals sent in an RC 5 infrared signal format. In another example configuration information identifying the channel control system as a manufacturer e.g. SONY SAMSUNG LG television may indicate that the channel control system communicates using an S link infrared communication standard. Additionally configuration information may include a service provider identifier associated with the channel control system . Configuration information for one or more channel control systems is stored in the configuration database .

The location module determines the location identifier. The location module receives a request for the location identifier. In one embodiment the request includes the IP address for the computing device . The location module determines the location of the computing device by sending a request to the geolocation server . The location module subsequently receives and processes a response to the request from the geolocation server . The response to the request from the geolocation server includes the location identifier which may be a ZIP code a set of latitude and longitude coordinates a street address or any other conventional geographic location indicator. Alternatively the location module may generate the location identifier without sending a request to the geolocation server . For example the location module may determine a location based on GPS coordinates or other location information generated by the computing device .

The service provider module determines a service provider associated with the channel control system . The service provider provides users access to broadcast television channels. Examples of television service providers include COMCAST COX DIRECTV DISH and similar providers. In a first embodiment the service provider module receives a request that includes the location identifier. The service provider determines the television service provider operating at the location specified by the location identifier. In these cases there may only be one television service provider operating in the area. In a second embodiment the request to the service provider module includes the IP address of the computing device . In this embodiment the service provider module determines the service provider based on the IP address. The service provider may be associated with both the IP address of the computing device and the channel control system since many users utilize the same service provider for internet telephone and or television services. Thus the IP address of the user s computing device may be associated with the service provider for the user s channel control system . In a third embodiment the service provider module determines the television service provider using configuration information received by the configuration module .

The program guide module determines the television function identifier associated with the request for the infrared code. In one embodiment the television function identifier specifies a channel showing the television program specified in the request for the infrared code. The program guide module receives a request for a television function identifier that includes a television service provider identity and an identity of a television program. In this case the requested television function may be to select the channel or channels showing the television program. The program guide module accesses program guide information associated with the service provider identity to determine the channel showing the television program specified in the request for the infrared code. The program guide module may also access program guide information associated with one or more video streaming websites to determine if the television program is shown on one or more channels hosted on an online streaming service.

The IR code module selects the infrared code associated with the determined television function identifier. The IR code module receives a request for the infrared code associated with the television function identifier. The request includes configuration information associated with the channel control system . In one embodiment the IR code module selects the infrared code by receiving the infrared code from the infrared code database . The infrared code may be received in response to sending a request for the infrared code to the infrared database . In another embodiment the IR code module generates the infrared code based on the received television function identifier.

The network interface links the API with the geolocation server the EPG and the infrared code database . The network interface may use network technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G Long Term Evolution LTE code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTPS simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . In some embodiments some or all of the data is encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

Referring now to illustrated is one embodiment of a method for selecting a television function for a channel control system through a computing device according to one example embodiment. All steps may be performed by the API configured on the computing device . In other embodiments of the invention the steps may be performed by the API configured on a server connected to the computing device through a network.

The API receives configuration information. The configuration information includes model information associated with the channel control system . This model information may indicate a model of channel control system . Furthermore the configuration information may identify a communication format or standard for the instructions sent to the channel control system . For example the configuration information may indicate that instructions to the channel control system are sent through infrared signals encoded in a particular format. In another embodiment the configuration information identifies a model of channel control system . The model may be associated with one or more compatible communications standards. The configuration information for a particular channel control system may be stored such that the computing device does not have to receive configuration information each time a request to select a television function for the channel control system is received.

The API receives a request for the infrared code. The infrared code includes an instruction to perform a television function on the channel control system associated with the received configuration information. In one embodiment the television function may be to select a channel on the channel control system . The channel may be a channel showing a particular television program. The television program may be a TV show a movie a media segment a video clip a video stream or a live TV feed. While the channel may be a broadcast television channel the channel may alternatively be an on demand channel. The on demand channel may be obtained through broadcast television e.g. pay per view television or from an online streaming source e.g. video streaming website . In some example embodiments the request for the infrared code specifies a channel to select on the channel control system . In other embodiments the request for the infrared code specifies the particular television program to be shown on the selected channel but does not specify a particular television channel to select. In other words the received request additionally includes a request to determine a channel playing the particular television program.

The received request may be sent from an application configured on the computing device . In one embodiment the request is received in response to a user activating a link in an application on the computing device . In one embodiment the link may indicate that a particular television program will be displayed on a television system connected to the channel control system . The link may be embedded in an online post or on a website accessible through a browser configured on the computing device .

The API receives a location identifier. The location identifier indicates the location of the computing device . The location identifier may be a ZIP code a street address geographic latitude and longitude coordinates or any other apparent location identifier. The computing device may receive the location identifier in response to the API sending a request for location information. The request for location information may include the computing device s IP address.

The API receives a television service provider identifier. The television service provider identifier identifies a television service provider associated with the location identifier. The television service provider identifier may be received in response to a request for television service provider information. The request includes the received location identifier. The received television service provider identifier is that of a television service provider operating at the location specified by the location identifier. In many cases only one television service provider operates in a given area. Thus there may only be one television service provider identifier associated with a given location identifier. In another embodiment the television service provider is determined by analyzing the received configuration information. The configuration information may comprise information associated with the television service provider such as the service provider identifier.

The API receives a television function identifier. The television function identifier is associated with the request for the infrared code. For example if the received request for infrared code is for a request to select a channel showing a particular television program the television function identifier may specify one or more channels showing the particular television program. The television function identifier may specify the channel with a channel number e.g. Channel a broadcast frequency range e.g. between 54 and 60 MHz by a URL or any other apparent identifier.

The television function identifier may be received in response to a request sent to the EPG . The request to the EPG may include the identity of the television program specified in the received request for infrared code and a television service provider identity. The received response to the request to the EPG includes the television function identifier. The television function identifier may be an instruction to select a channel showing the particular television show specified by the request for the infrared code.

The API receives an infrared code. The infrared code comprises an instruction to select the television function associated with the received television function identifier. The instructions included in the infrared code are encoded in a format or standard specified by the received configuration information. In other embodiments the infrared code is encoded as an instruction sent over a wired or wireless network.

The infrared code may be received in response to a request sent to the infrared code database . The request to the infrared code database may include the received television function identifier and or the received configuration information.

The API sends the infrared code. If the API is configured on the computing device the infrared code is sent to the channel control system . The infrared code may be sent as an infrared signal to the channel control system . However the infrared signal may alternatively be sent over a wired or wireless network to the channel control system . For example the channel control system may be a smart TV or a network capable set top box that receives television function selections through a network. In embodiments in which an API is configured on a server the infrared code may alternatively be sent to the computing device over a network.

Referring now to illustrated is one example of a user interface for selecting a television function for a channel control system through a computing device according to one example embodiment. The user interface may be part an application configured on the computing device . The application may be a configured to access a social network as illustrated in . The user interface of illustrates multiple variants of a user interface element for selecting a television function through a computing device on a social networking website.

The illustrated user interface is a user interface may be a part of a conventional social networking website. However the user interface may be for any application that can be configured on a computing device . The user interface includes one or more posts . The one or more posts include a Tune In button . The Tune In button is an interface that allows a user to select a television function on their channel control system without exiting the application. In one embodiment the Tune In button specifies a television program. The appearance of the Tune In button may change based on the specified television program. In this example the Tune In button lists the Olympics as the specified television program. However any text image graphic or indicator may be displayed on the Tune In button .

When a user activates the Tune In button the Tune In button prompts the computing device to generate a request for an infrared code. The infrared code includes instructions to select a channel showing the television program specified by the Tune In button .

The user interface may additionally or alternatively include a more detailed Tune In button . The detailed Tune In button is second embodiment of the Tune In button . The detailed Tune In button has the same functionality as the Tune In button but includes more information on the specified television program. For example the detailed Tune In button includes one or more of a summary of the specified television program a picture associated with the specified television program and channel information. In the illustrated example the detailed Tune In button includes a short summary of the television program Portland Trailblazers vs. Los Angeles Lakers a picture and the channel the showing the television program EPSN or Channel . The user or entity who posts the detailed Tune In button may select which information is included in the detailed Tune In button .

The user interface may also include a Tune In button embodied as an in text link . The text the Tune In button is linked to may be generated or otherwise selected by the user.

The disclosed embodiments beneficially allow a user to share broadcast television programs through online links. Users interact with each other by sharing links to media content. However users do not have a way of sharing television programs aired on broadcast television. A computing device can be configured to allow a user to select a television function such as selecting a television channel showing a particular television program through the computing device . The selection of the television channel may be in response to the user activating a user interface element in an application configured on the computing device . For example the selection of the television function may be in response to the user activating a link posted in a social networking application. Instructions to select the television channel showing the television program are sent to the channel control system .

The links allow users to share broadcast television shows with each other online. Furthermore by determining the channel showing the television program the disclosed embodiments are able to select any channel playing the television program without user input. This allows the user to seamlessly and instantly view the television program on television without having to search local electronic program guides or channel surf to find the channel showing the television program.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including a number of components or modules for example as illustrated in . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for selecting a television function through a mobile device through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

