---

title: Electronic device and operating method thereof
abstract: An electronic device with wireless communication capability including at least one antenna, a detection module, and a setting module. The detection module detects an amount of a current returning from the at least one antenna. The setting module sets at least one user interface corresponding to the detected amount of the current, and when the detected amount of current is below a threshold, abnormal operation is indicated. The amount of current returning can be affected by devices sufficiently close to interfere with the transmissive capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09490876&OS=09490876&RS=09490876
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09490876
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150212
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 from a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Feb. 20 2014 and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0019606 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device having a Near Field Communication NFC function and an operating method thereof. More particularly the present disclosure relates to an electronic device and ways to monitor operation of wirelessly transceiving with other devices.

Due to developments in electronic communication electronic devices such as cellular phones electronic schedulers personal digital assistants PDAs laptop computers etc. have become necessities of a modern society and provide an important means for delivering rapidly changing information. Such devices are typically conveniently operated through Graphic User Interface GUI environments implemented on a touch screen and thus provide a variety of information network access and multimedia.

In order to provide the various functionalities desired by consumers a user device includes various electronic components configured to provide the various functions. For example a user device may include a stereo speaker module to provide a listening to music function that uses stereo sounds. Similarly the user equipment UE includes a camera module to provide a photo shooting functions. Furthermore the UE includes a communication module to provide a communication function with another electronic device via a network.

The present disclosure provides an electronic device for recognizing a member approaching the electronic device without the addition of separate parts to save costs.

Furthermore the present disclosure provides an electronic device that adaptively operates according to neighboring circumstances for example a type of an approaching member an approach position an approach distance or an approach range etc. which the electronic device encounters in order to prevent deterioration of a function especially when wireless communication play a role in the delivery of the function.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device includes at least one antenna a detection module configured to detect an amount of a current returning from the at least one antenna and a setting module configured to set at least one user interface corresponding to the amount of the current.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for operating an electronic device includes detecting an amount of a current e.g. RF power returning signal power etc. returning from at least one antenna and setting at least one user interface corresponding to the amount of the current.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present disclosure a Near Field Communication NFC controller includes an NFC module including circuitry configured to generate a reception signal corresponding to a Radio Frequency RF reception signal received via an NFC antenna to transmit the same to a processor and to generate an RF transmission signal corresponding to a transmission signal received from the processor to transmit the same to an outside device via the NFC antenna and a detection module including circuitry configured to detect an amount of a current returning from the NFC antenna to output the same to the processor.

The teachings of the present disclosure as embodied in the appended claims may improve a user s convenience and prevent deterioration of at least one function via a method of determining a neighboring circumstance for example a type of an approaching member an approach position an approach distance or an approach range which an electronic device encounters using at least one antenna for example an NFC antenna and adaptively setting at least one user interface in response thereto.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become better understood by those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

Hereinafter the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present disclosure has various embodiments and specific embodiments are exemplarily described and related detailed descriptions are made. However it should be understood that the various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to a specific embodied form and include all modifications and or equivalents or substitutions that fall within the spirit and technical scope of the present disclosure. In the drawings like reference numerals are used for like elements.

Expressions such as include or may include etc. that may be used for the present disclosure indicate existence of a disclosed relevant function operation or element etc. and do not limit additional one or more functions operations or elements etc. Also it should be understood that terminologies such as include or have etc. in the present disclosure are intended for designating existence of a characteristic a number a step an operation an element a part or a combination of these described on the specification and do not exclude in advance existence or addition possibility of one or more other characteristics numbers tasks operations elements parts or a combination of these.

Expression such as or etc. in the present disclosure includes a certain and all combinations of words listed together. For example A or B may include A and may include B or include both A and B.

In the present disclosure ordinal expressions such as 1st 2nd first or second etc. may modify various elements of the present disclosure but do not limit relevant elements. For example the expressions do not limit sequence and or importance etc. of relevant elements. The expressions may be used for discriminating one element from another element. For example both a first user apparatus and a second user apparatus are all user apparatuses and represent different user apparatuses. For example a first element may be named as a second element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure and similarly the second element may be named as the first element.

When it is mentioned that a certain element is connected to or accesses another element it should be understood that the element may be directly connected to another element or may directly access another element but still another element may exist in the middle therebetween . In contrast when it is mentioned that a certain element is directly connected to or directly accesses another element it should be understood that still another element does not exist between the elements.

Terminologies used in the present disclosure are provided for explaining only a specific embodiment and is not intended for limiting the present disclosure. Unless clearly expressed otherwise expression of the singular includes expression of the plural.

Unless defined differently all terminologies used herein including technological or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as that generally understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. It should be understood that generally used terminologies defined by a dictionary may have meaning coinciding with meaning on context of a related technology and unless clearly defined in the present disclosure they are not understood as an ideal or excessively formal meaning.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example an electronic device may be for example one of a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera or a wearable device for example a head mounted device HMD such as electronic glasses an electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch just to name some non limiting possibilities.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a smart home appliance having a communication function. A smart home appliance may include for example at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven an electronic range a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic frame.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a shooting device an ultrasonic device etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR an automobile infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship for example a navigation device for a ship a gyro compass etc. an avionics a security device and a robot for an industrial use or a home use.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of a furniture or a portion of a building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measurement devices for example waterworks electricity gas or radio wave measuring device etc. . An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the above described devices. Also it is understood a person of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is described with reference to the accompanying drawings. A terminology of a user related to various embodiments discussed herein may indicate a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses the electronic device.

Referring now to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a non transitory memory an input output I O interface a display a communication interface and a user interface module .

The bus may be comprised of a circuit for connecting the above described elements with each other and transferring communication for example a control message between the above described elements.

The processor which is comprised of circuitry configured for operation may receive for example an instruction from the above described other elements for example the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface or the user interface module etc. via the bus decipher the received instruction and execute an operation or a data process corresponding to the deciphered instruction.

The memory may store an instruction or data received from the processor or other elements for example the I O interface the display the communication interface or the user interface module etc. or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory may include for example programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API or an application . Each of the programming modules are configured for execution by hardware.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory etc. used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the rest of the programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel may provide an interface for allowing the middleware the API or the application to access an individual element of the electronic device and control or manage the same.

With continued reference to the middleware may perform a mediation role so that the API or the application may communicate with the kernel to give and take data. Also in connection with task requests received from the applications the middleware may perform a control for example scheduling or load balancing for a task request using for example a method of assigning priority that may use a system resource for example the bus the processor or the memory etc. of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface that permits the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function for example an instruction for file control window control image processing or character control etc.

According to various embodiments the application may include an SMS MMS application an e mail application a calendar application alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring a quantity of motion or a blood sugar level or average etc. or an environmental information application for example an application providing atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information etc. . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example the electronic device . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function for transferring notification information generated from a different application for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environmental information application of the electronic device to an external electronic device for example the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may for example receive notification information from an external electronic device for example the electronic device and provide the same to a user. The device management application may manage for example install delete or update a function for example turn on turn off of an external electronic device itself or some constituent part or luminance or resolution control of a display and an application operating in the external electronic device or a service for example a communication service or a message service provided by the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a designated application depending on an attribute for example a type of an electronic device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example in the case where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to music reproduction particularly in MP3 format. Similarly in the case where the external electronic device is a mobile medical health care device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated in the electronic device and an application received from the external electronic device for example the server or the electronic device .

The I O interface may transfer an instruction or data received from a user via an I O unit for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the user interface module via the bus for example. For example the I O interface may provide data regarding a user s touch input via the touch screen to the processor . Also the I O interface for example may output an instruction or data received via the bus from the processor the memory and the communication interface or the user interface module via the I O unit for example a speaker or a display . For example the I O interface may output voice data processed by the processor to a user via a speaker.

The communication interface may facilitate communication between the electronic device with an external device for example the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected with a network via wireless communication or wired communication so as to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication may for example include at least one of Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS or cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM etc. . The wired communication may include for example at least one of Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 and plain old telephone service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a telecommunications network. More particularly the telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet an Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment a protocol for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

The user interface module may recognize a neighboring circumstance which the electronic device encounters detects etc. for example after transmitting detecting an amount of a current or an amount of a current lost from at least one antenna returning from at least one antenna for example an NFC antenna and set a user interface regarding this detected current. An artisan understands and appreciates that a detected wireless power of a return signal i.e. a returned signal strength may be detected as an alternative detection of an amount of current and this variation is within the breadth of the claimed invention. The user interface module may control at least a portion of functions of the electronic device so that the electronic device may communicate with another electronic device for example the electronic device or the server using for example the processor or independently. Alternatively the user interface module may be included in the processor . Additional information regarding the user interface module is provided with reference to and subsequent drawings.

Referring now to the user interface module may include a detection module a circumstance recognition module and a setting module .

The detection module for a non limiting example an NFC controller of at least one sensor or application processor etc. may detect an amount of a current referred to as an amount of a returning current or an amount of a non loss current returning to the electronic device after passing through at least one antenna for example a cellular antenna or a Wireless Connectivity WC antenna etc. .

For example a main circuit board not shown provides a current to at least one antenna and a current circulates along a radiation pattern formed by at least one antenna and then the current returns to the main circuit board and a transmission line formed in this manner may transmit or receive a radio electromagnetic wave. Here an amount of a returning current may indicate an amount of a current returning from at least one antenna to the main circuit board. The amount of the returning current may be calculated as an average for a set time. When an amount of a current returning is relatively small an amount of a current loss in at least one antenna is relatively large.

The detection module may detect an amount of a current returning t in an operation section where a current is supplied to at least one antenna. For example the detection module may measure an amount of a current returning in the case where a current is periodically supplied to an NFC antenna during a read write mode of an NFC function.

The circumstance recognition module for example at least one sensor or application processor etc. may recognize a neighboring circumstance for example a type of an approaching member an approach position an approach distance or an approach range etc. as corresponding to an amount of a returning current. The circumstance recognition module may set a range of an amount of current returning for each of the various neighboring circumstances and determine a neighboring circumstance for a returning current amount that falls within a specified range. For example in the case where a user grips the electronic device the circumstance recognition module may output a signal regarding an amount of gripping of a handheld device or a gripping position etc. from the returning current amount.

The setting module for example an application processor may perform setting control or loading for example display control voice control shooting control or wireless communication control etc. of at least one user interface corresponding to a recognized neighboring circumstance. For example the user interface may include a device configuration of hardware or firmware that gives an aid so that interaction between a user and the electronic device may be swiftly performed. The user interface may be at least a portion of a machine executable code where a user and the program interact with each other in order to exchange information between the user and the electronic device . The setting module may display a recognized neighboring circumstance.

The setting module may include the circumstance recognition module with the same configured circuitry.

In another embodiment the detection module may detect a loss in the amount of current returning from the at least one antenna the circumstance recognition module may determine a neighboring circumstance corresponding to the amount of current lost and the setting module may set a user interface corresponding to the neighboring circumstance.

In still another embodiment the detection module may detect a loss rate of current from at least one antenna the circumstance recognition module may determine a neighboring circumstance corresponding to the loss rate of current or alternatively power and the setting module may set a user interface corresponding to the neighboring circumstance.

Referring now to at operation the user interface module for example the detection module may detect a returning amount of current from at least one antenna.

At operation the user interface module for example the circumstance recognition module may recognize a neighboring circumstance for example whether a user grips the handheld electronic device a user s gripping amount force or amount of the device held a user s gripping position whether a metal body approaches a metal body approach distance from the electronic device a metal body approach position or whether an NFC tag approaches etc. corresponding to a returning current amount.

At operation the user interface module for example the setting module may set for example display control voice control shooting control or wireless communication control etc. at least one user interface corresponding to a recognized neighboring circumstance. For example the user interface module may control transmission Tx power to at least one cellular antenna N such as shown in or select at least one cellular antenna used for cellular communication among a plurality of cellular antennas N in response to a recognized neighboring circumstance. Alternatively in case of receiving a call in response to a recognized neighboring circumstance the user interface module may switch between call receive warning modes for example a bell sound mode a mute lamp mode or a vibration mode etc. . Alternatively the user interface module may switch between communication modes for example switching from a general phone mode or a speaker phone mode etc. in response to a recognized neighboring circumstance.

Referring now to at operation the user interface module for example the circumstance recognition module may determine a range to which a returning amount of current detected from at least one antenna belongs.

At operation the user interface module for example the circumstance recognition module may determine a neighboring circumstance corresponding to a determined range.

Referring now to at operation the user interface module for example the detection module may detect a returning current amount from at least one antenna.

At operation the user interface module for example the circumstance recognition module may determine information for example a type of an approaching member an approach position an approach distance or an approach range etc. regarding an approaching member corresponding to a returning current amount.

At operation the user interface module for example the setting module may set for example display control voice control shooting control or wireless communication control etc. a user interface corresponding to information regarding an approaching member.

Referring now to the electronic device may include a touch screen a speaker at least one sensor a camera at least one key a socket a microphone an internal antenna not shown or a stylus . The electronic device may include a front surface a lateral side and a backside .

The touch screen may display an image and receive a touch input. The touch screen may be disposed on the front surface of the electronic device .

The speaker is a transducer that may convert an electric signal into vibrations that are output in the form of a sound. The speaker may be disposed in the front surface of the electronic device . Alternatively though not shown the speaker may be disposed on the lateral side or the backside of the electronic device .

The at least one sensor may measure a physical quantity or detect an operational state of the electronic device to convert measured or detected information into an electric signal. The at least one sensor may include at least one of a gesture sensor a proximity sensor a grip sensor a gyro sensor an acceleration sensor a geomagnetic sensor an atmospheric pressure sensor a temperature humidity sensor a Hall sensor an RGB red green blue sensor an illuminance sensor a living body sensor an ultraviolet UV sensor or a stylus detector just to name some non limiting possibilities.

The camera may shoot an image and a moving picture. The camera may be disposed on the front surface of the electronic device . Alternatively though not shown the camera may be disposed on the lateral side or the backside of the electronic device .

The at least one socket for example an ear jack a charging jack or a communication jack etc. may be an interface device for electric connection with an external device for example an ear set or a charger etc. . The at least one socket may include a structure for connecting with a plug such as a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D sub etc. Though not shown the at least one socket may be disposed on the lateral side or the backside of the electronic device .

The microphone may convert a sound into an electric signal. The microphone may be disposed on the lateral side of the electronic device .

Alternatively though not shown the microphone may be disposed on the front surface or the backside of the electronic device .

With continued reference to the stylus may be an input tool for making a digitizer panel not shown of the touch screen sensitive. For example the stylus may operate in an electromagnetic induction method. The stylus may be detached to the outside via an opening formed in the lateral side of the electronic device .

Referring now to the electronic device may include a touch screen a bracket a rear case a battery cover a primary circuit board a main board or a motherboard or a Printed Circuit Board PCB or a battery pack .

The bracket may be a mounting plate to which a plurality of electronic parts may be installed. for example the bracket may be a frame that may fix and support a plurality of electronic parts. The bracket may include a first side formed on an upper portion and a second side formed on a lower portion. The first side and the second side of the bracket may be a mounting surface for mounting an electronic part thereon. The first side and or the second side of the bracket may include various shapes of surfaces such as a flat surface a curved surface an oblique surface etc. The bracket may provide a seat for the touch screen that is arranged thereon. The bracket on an opposite side may also seat the primary circuit board thereon. The bracket may seat electronic parts including a PCB thereon. The bracket may seat an electronic part connected to the primary circuit board by the medium of an electric connection means for example a cable or a Flexible Printed Circuit Board FPCB etc. thereon. The bracket may include a plurality of recesses that may seat a plurality of parts therein. For example the bracket may include a recess that may seat the touch screen therein. The bracket may include a recess that may seat the primary circuit board therein. The bracket may include a recess that may receive electronic parts protruding from the primary circuit board to an upper direction. The bracket may include a battery pack receiving recess of a container shape which is concave in the lower direction for receiving a portion of the battery pack in a lower portion.

With continued reference to the rear case may be coupled for example snap fit fastening or bolt fastening to the bracket . Alternatively according to various embodiments the rear case may not exist as a piece separate from the battery cover and may exist as an integral type with the battery cover . The rear case may hide a plurality of parts fixed to the bracket . The rear case may hide at least a portion of the primary circuit board fixed to the bracket . The bracket the rear case and the primary circuit board may be coupled together in a bolt fastening manner. The rear case may include a recess that may receive electronic parts protruding from the primary circuit board toward a lower direction opposite the surface of the touch screen . The rear case may include a battery pack through portion that may allow the battery pack to pass through it. As illustrated the battery pack through portion may be an opening shape that passes through the upper portion and the lower portion of the rear case and may communicate with a battery pack receiving recess of a container shape of the bracket . In the case where the bracket is coupled to the rear case the battery pack receiving recess of the bracket and the battery pack through portion of the rear case may prepare a container shaped space that may receive the entire battery pack . The battery pack through portion of the rear case may be a container shape that may receive the entire battery pack in itself and the battery pack receiving recess of the bracket may not be necessary. Also the battery pack receiving recess may be a container shape that may receive the entire battery pack in itself and the battery pack through portion of the rear case may not be necessary.

The battery cover is attachable detachable to from the rear case . The battery cover may include a plurality of hooks not shown that may be fastened to a plurality of hook fasten recesses of the rear case in its edge. Other constructions for attachment and detachment of the battery cover can also be used.

In the case where all of the bracket the rear case and the battery cover are coupled an exposed surface of at least a portion of these parts may form an external surface of the electronic device . For example the rear case may form the lateral side of the electronic device shown in . Also the battery cover may form the backside of the electronic device see .

The primary circuit board may be a board on which a basic circuit and a plurality of electronic parts have been mounted including integrated circuits. The primary circuit board may set an execution environment of the electronic device maintain information thereof and allow the electronic device to be stably driven. Also the primary circuit board may allow data input output exchange of all units of the electronic device to be swiftly performed.

In addition the primary circuit board may be disposed between the bracket and the rear case . The primary circuit board may be coupled to the bracket using a fastening method such as a bolt.

The rear case may include a plurality of hook fastening recesses a camera window and a plurality of terminals . The plurality of hook fastening recesses may be used for hook coupling with the battery cover . The camera window may be disposed to correspond to a camera not shown mounted on the primary circuit board of . The plurality of terminals may be electrically connected to an NFC related part for example an NFC controller mounted on the primary circuit board . The plurality of terminals may be electrically connected to an NFC antenna not shown of the battery cover .

The battery cover may include a plurality of hooks a camera window hole and an antenna for example an NFC antenna not shown . The plurality of hooks may be coupled to the plurality of hook fastening recesses of the rear case . The camera window hole may allow the camera window of the rear case to pass through it. The NFC antenna may receive an electric signal a current from an NFC controller of the primary circuit board to radiate the same. The battery cover may include a plurality of terminals not shown which may be electrically connected with the NFC antenna and which may electrically contact the plurality of terminals of the rear case on its surface.

Alternatively though not shown the NFC antenna may be disposed in various positions besides the battery cover . For example the NFC antenna may be attached to the battery pack . A plurality of terminals are provided for supplying power and a plurality of terminals electrically connected to the NFC antenna may be mounted together on the surface of the battery pack . The rear case may include terminals that may be electrically connected to the plurality of terminals of the battery pack .

The NFC antenna may have conducting paint for a coating or a metal plate for attachment etc. The NFC antenna may be used as a detection medium that may detect a neighboring circumstance for example user gripping metal body approaching or NFC tag recognition etc. which the electronic device faces. For example in the case where a user grips the electronic device the user s hand i.e. detection object interferes with an electric field formed in the NFC antenna and a portion of the electric field may be connected in a grounded state. Thus an NFC controller may detect an amount of a current change or a capacitance change etc. corresponding to this change of the electric field. An amount of a current change at the NFC antenna may be different depending on a method with the user grips the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device gripped by the user. The amount of the current change may be a concept including the above described returning current amount.

Referring now to user equipment UE for example the electronic device may include a processor a memory a speaker a microphone a camera a display a touch panel a sensor a Power Manager Integrated Circuit PMIC a battery a wireless connectivity WC at least one WC antenna N a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFIC a Front End Module FEM and at least one cellular antenna N.

The processor which comprises hardware such as configured circuitry and may referred to as control unit or controller may control an overall operation of the UE . The processor may include integrated circuitry and is configured to perform functions of executing an Operating System OS of the UE and an application and controlling other parts and devices a.k.a. controller .

an Image Signal Processor ISP responsible for image signal processing an Audio Signal Processor ASP responsible for voice signal processing a memory semiconductor or a system interface etc. The processor may be a System on Chip SoC where various parts are integrated in one chip.

The AP may play a role of a brain of the UE and support an operation processing function a contents reproduction function of various formats such as audio an image a video etc. a graphic engine etc. The AP may drive an OS applied to the UE and various functions etc. and perform a plurality of functions such as a core a memory a display system controller a multimedia encoding decoding codec a 2D 3D accelerator engine an ISP a camera audio a modem various kinds of high low speed Serial Parallel connectivity interface etc. The AP may execute various software programs an instruction set stored in the memory to perform various functions for the UE and perform processes and controls for voice communication video communication and data communication. The AP may perform a software program an instruction set stored in the memory to perform various functions corresponding to the program. The AP may be a system on chip integrating all of a GPU an ISP an ASP a memory semiconductor and a system interface.

The CP enables voice communication and or data communication and compresses voice data and image data or decompresses compression of voice data and image data. The CP may be a baseband modem or a baseband processor BP etc. The CP may be designed to operate via one of a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network an Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a W CDMA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi network a WiMax network or a Bluetooth network.

The GPU processes an operation related to graphics and may be responsible for image information processing acceleration signal switching screen output etc. The GPU may resolve a bottle neck phenomenon generated by a graphic task of the AP and process 2D or 3D graphics faster than the AP.

The ISP may convert an electric signal image data from the camera to an image signal. The image data of the camera may be provided by a CCD or CMOS sensor. The ISP may change the color of image data from the camera and adjust brightness such that it is the same as an actual image. The ISP may perform automatic exposure AE correction automatic white balance AWB correction that automatically adjusts a white balance depending on a color temperature change of incident light and automatic focusing AF that allows an object to be automatically focused etc. The ISP may analyze a frequency component of image data obtained from the camera and recognize definition of an image to adjust an F number of an aperture and a shutter speed of the camera . The ISP may temporarily store image data from the camera in the memory for example a buffer memory .

With continued reference to the processor and possible items arranged therein the APU processes an audio related operation and changes an audio signal of a digital or analog form via an audio effect or an effect unit.

The memory which comprises a non transitory machine readable medium may store a software related program an instruction set executable by the above described processors. The memory may include a high speed random access memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices and or a non volatile memory one or more optical storage devices and or a flash memory for example NAND NOR .

The software that is executed by the processor may include an OS program a communication program a camera program a graphics program one or more applications a user interface program a codec program an antenna self test program or a neighboring circumstance recognition program etc. A terminology of a program may be also expressed as a set of instructions or an instruction set. The OS program may use various functions of a communication program a camera program a graphic program one or more applications a user interface program a codec program an antenna test program or a neighboring circumstance recognition program via various Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

The OS program may be any of for example WINDOWS LINUX Darwin RTXC UNIX OS X or a built in OS such as VxWorks and may include various software elements controlling a general system operation. A control of this general system operation may include memory management and control storage hardware device control and management power control and management etc. Also the OS program may perform a function for swift communication between various hardwares devices and software elements programs .

The communication program may enable communication with a computer a server and UE etc. via the WC or the RFIC or an external port.

The camera program may perform a pre process that applies various effects to an image from an image sensor of the camera and a post process that applies various effects to a captured snap image under API support such as Open Graphics Library OpenGL DirectX etc.

The graphic program may include various software elements for providing and displaying graphics to the display . The graphic program may generate graphics based on an API such as OpenGL DirectX etc. and provide various filters that may give various effects to an image. A terminology of graphics indicates text a web page an icon a digital image a video animation etc. This graphic program may be an image viewer an image edit program etc. whose usage is optimized for post processing an image and may be a camera related program a video phone related program etc. optimized for pre processing an image. The graphic program may perform post processing that applies various effects to a rendering completed image or perform pre processing that applies various effects to an image. As described above filters for these effects may be collectively managed so that they may be used in common.

The application may include one or more of a browser an e mail an instant message word processing keyboard emulation an address book a touch list a widget Digital Right Management DRM voice recognition voice duplication position determining function a location based service etc. The user interface program may include various software elements related to a user interface that are executed by hardware. The user interface program may include content regarding how a state of a user interface changes and a condition under which a state of a user interface changes.

The antenna test program may output information from the WC indicating an operation state of at least one WC antenna N via the processor and an output unit for example the display or the speaker .

The neighboring circumstance recognition program may adjust transmission Tx power to at least one cellular antenna N in response to a state signal from the WC . The neighboring circumstance recognition can configure hardware to select at least one used for cellular communication from a plurality of cellular antennas in response to a state signal from the WC . The neighboring circumstance recognition program may connect at least one antenna matching circuit to the RFIC in response to a state signal from the WC . In case of receiving a call the neighboring circumstance recognition program may switch a call receive mode for example a bell sound mode a mute lamp mode or a vibration mode etc. in response to a state signal from the WC . The neighboring circumstance recognition program may switch a communication mode for example a general phone mode or a speaker phone mode etc. in response to a state signal from the WC .

The memory may further include additional machine executable code instructions besides the above described items. Also various functions of the UE may be executed by one or more stream processings and or a hardware including an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC .

The speaker may convert an electric signal to a sound in an audio frequency band and output the same. The microphone may convert a sound wave transferred from a person or other sound sources to an electric signal.

The camera may convert light reflected by a photographed object to an electric signal. The camera may include an image sensor such as a Charged Coupled Device CCD or a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS etc. The image sensor may perform a camera function such as a photo video clip recording etc. The image sensor may change a hardware configuration of the camera for example by adjusting lens movement an F number of an aperture etc. depending on a camera program executed by the AP .

The display may output an electric signal in the form of visual information for example text graphic video etc. The display may be one of an Electro Wetting Display EWD E Paper a Plasma Display Panel PDP a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED just to name a few non limiting possibilities.

With continued reference to the touch panel may receive and detect a touch input. The touch panel may be one of a digitizer for a stylus pen a capacitive overlay touch panel a resistance overlay touch panel a surface acoustic wave touch panel and an infrared beam touch panel.

The sensor may detect discriminate and measure a physical quantity such as heat light temperature pressure a sound or a position or a change thereof of any of the aforementioned. The sensor may include a temperature sensor a pressure sensor a magnetic sensor a light sensor a sound sensor a capacitance sensor or a Global Positioning System GPS sensor etc. just to name some non limiting possibilities.

The PMIC may adjust power from the battery . For example the processor may transmit an interface signal to the PMIC in accordance with a load to be processed. The PMIC may adjust a core voltage supplied to the processor so that the voltage is suitable for the processor and the processor may be always driven using minimum power. The PMIC may be configured as at least one PMIC related to at least one of the WC the memory the speaker the microphone the camera the display or the touch panel etc. as well as the processor . One unified PMIC may be configured and the unified PMIC may adjust battery power for at least one of the above described elements.

The WC may implement various communication functions not processed by the processor for example one or more of Wi Fi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Universal Serial Bus USB or a Global Positioning System GPS etc. The WC may mount a Wi Fi controller for using Wi Fi a Bluetooth controller for using Bluetooth an NFC controller for using NFC a USB controller for using USB or a GPS controller for a GPS function. The WC may generate an RF signal corresponding to a signal received from the processor and transmit the generated RF signal to the outside via at least one WC antenna N. The WC may generate a signal corresponding to an RF signal received via at least one WC antenna N to transmit the same to the processor . The WC may determine whether input data occurs via at least one WC antenna N. When a user allows the UE to approach an external device for example a card reader or external UE the WC may receive input data from the external device via at least one WC antenna N.

The WC may measure an amount of a current change for example an amount of a current loss in at least one WC antenna N for example an NFC antenna a BT antenna or a GPS antenna etc. generate a state signal corresponding to an amount of a current loss and transmit the generated state signal to the processor . This state signal may indicate an operation state of at least one WC antenna N or a neighboring circumstance for example whether a user grips a user s gripping amount a user s gripping position whether a metal body approaches a metal body approach distance a metal body approach position etc. which the UE faces.

The WC may measure an amount of a current loss in a section where a current is periodically output to at least one WC antenna N. For example the WC may generate a state signal in a section where a current is periodically supplied to an NFC antenna during a Reader Writer mode of an NFC function. The WC may generate a state signal in a section where a current is periodically supplied to the NFC antenna in a self test that checks an operation state of at least one WC antenna N. The WC may generate a state signal corresponding to a range to which an amount of a current loss in at least one WC antenna N belongs. The processor may perform at least one operation in response to a state signal from the WC .

With continued reference to it is known that at least one WC antenna N may be used for at least one communication among Wi Fi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC or a Global Positioning System GPS .

The RFIC for example an RF transceiver may receive a radio wave from a base station and modulate the received high frequency wave as a baseband that may be processed by a modem for example a CP . The RFIC may modulate a low frequency wave processed by the modem as a high frequency wave in order to transmit the same to a base station.

The FEM may be a transmission reception device that may control a radio wave signal. The FEM may connect at least one cellular antenna N with the RFIC and separate a transmission reception signal. The FEM may perform filtering and amplification and include a reception end front end module mounting a filter that filters a reception signal therein and a transmission end front end module mounting a Power Amplifier Module PAM that amplifies a transmission signal therein.

At least one cellular antenna N may be used for at least one communication among Single Input Multiple Output SIMO Multiple Input Single Output MISO diversity or Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO .

Referring to now UE may include an application processor a communication processor a non transitory memory a speaker a microphone a camera a display a touch panel a PMIC a battery an NFC controller an NFC antenna an RF transceiver module a switch a plurality of cellular antennas N and a plurality of antenna matching circuits N.

The application processor AP which includes hardware circuitry configured for operation may play a role of a brain i.e. a controller of the UE and support an operation processing function a contents reproduction function of various formats such as audio an image a video etc. a graphic engine etc. The AP may drive an OS applied to the UE and various functions etc. and may be one chip that gathers all of numerous functions such as a core a memory a display system controller a multimedia encoding decoding codec a 2D 3D accelerator engine an ISP a camera audio a modem various kinds of high low speed Serial Parallel connectivity interface etc. The AP may be embodied as a System On Chip SOC that drives an OS and applications and gathers functions of controlling various system devices interfaces in one chip.

The Communication Processor CP enables voice communication and or data communication and compresses voice data and image data or decompresses compression of voice data and image data. The CP may be a baseband modem or a baseband processor BP etc. The CP may be designed to operate via one of a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network an Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a W CDMA network an EV DO network an HSDPA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi network a WiMax network a GPS network a Bluetooth network or an NFC network just to name a few non limiting possibilities.

With continued reference to the memory may store a software related program an instruction set executable by the above described processors. The memory may include a high speed random access memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices and or a non volatile memory one or more optical storage devices and or a flash memory for example NAND NOR . The software may include an OS program a communication program a camera program a graphics program one or more applications a user interface program a codec program an antenna test program or a neighboring circumstance recognition program etc. A terminology of a program may be also expressed as a set of instructions or an instruction set or a program. The OS program may use various functions of a communication program a camera program a graphic program one or more applications a user interface program a codec program via various Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The memory may further include an additional program instructions besides programs.

The speaker may convert an electric signal to a sound in an audio frequency band and output the same. The microphone may convert a sound wave transferred from a person or other sound sources to an electric signal.

The camera may convert light reflected by a shoot object to an electric signal. The camera may include a CCD or a CMOS etc.

The display may output an electric signal in the form of visual information for example text graphic video etc. The display may be one of an EWD an E Paper a PDP an LCD an OLED or AMOLED just to name some non limiting possibilities.

The touch panel is designed to detect when a touch is received. It is also within the term touch that a near touch one s finger or stylus coming within a distance sufficient close to as to be detectable by the touch screen without physical contact may also be sufficient for registering a touch. The touch panel may be one of a digitizer for a stylus pen a capacitive overlay touch panel a resistance overlay touch panel a surface acoustic wave touch panel and an infrared beam touch panel.

The NFC controller may generate a reception signal corresponding to an RF reception signal received via the NFC antenna to transmit the same to the AP . The NFC controller may generate an RF transmission signal corresponding to a transmission signal received from the AP and transmit the generated RF transmission signal to the outside via the NFC antenna . The NFC controller may measure an amount of a current change for example an amount of a current loss in the NFC antenna . When a current flows through the NFC antenna an electric field may be formed. In the case where a user grips UE the user s hand detection object interferes with an electric field formed in the NFC antenna detection object a portion of the electric field may be connected in a grounded state and the NFC controller may detect an amount of a current loss or an amount of a capacitance change or an amount of a power loss etc. corresponding to this change of the electric field. The NFC controller may measure an amount of a current loss in the NFC antenna during a section for example a read write mode of an NFC function or an antenna test function where a current is periodically supplied to the NFC antenna . The NFC controller may generate a signal corresponding to an amount of a current loss in the NFC antenna and output the generated signal to the AP . The NFC controller may determine a range to which an amount of a current loss belongs and output a signal corresponding to the determined range. The AP may output information indicating a state of an antenna via an output unit for example the display or the speaker in response to a signal from the NFC controller . The AP may control the switch and or the RF transceiver module in response to a signal from the NFC controller .

The RF transceiver module includes a transmitter and a receiver and may transmit receive an RF signal via at least one cellular antenna N corresponding to an operation of the switch . The RF transceiver module may operate in a Single Input Single Output SISO Single Input Multiple Output SIMO Multiple Input Single Output MISO diversity or Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO communication scheme depending on an operation of the switch . The RF transceiver module may include all RF parts between a cellular antenna N and the CP . The RF transceiver module may include a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFIC a front end module etc. The RFIC for example an RF transceiver may perform an RF function of connecting a signal via a plurality of antennas to a system semiconductor for example a modem . The front end module may be a transmission reception device that may control a radio signal. The front end module may connect an antenna with the RFIC and separate a transmission reception signal. The front end module may perform filtering and amplification and include a reception end front end module mounting a filter that filters a reception signal therein a Power Amplifier Module PAM that amplifies a transmission signal and a transmission end front end module. During reception of a radio signal the RF transceiver module may receive a radio signal from at least one cellular antenna N convert the received radio signal to a baseband signal and transmit the converted baseband signal to the CP . The CP may process the received baseband signal and control a personal mechanical interface of UE in response to the received baseband signal. During transmission of a radio signal the CP may generate a baseband signal and output the same to the RF transceiver module . The RF transceiver module may receive a baseband signal from the CP convert the received baseband signal to a radio signal and transmit the same to the air via at least one antenna N.

The switch may selectively use at least one cellular antenna used for cellular communication among a plurality of cellular antennas N in response to a control signal from the AP . The switch may selectively use at least one antenna N used for a transmission Tx path and or a reception Rx path of the RF transceiver module in response to a control signal from the AP . The switch may selectively use at least one antenna matching circuit N for compensating for mismatching of at least one cellular antenna N in response to a control signal from the AP .

Referring to the NFC controller may include an NFC module and an antenna test module . The modules are hardware configured for operation.

The NFC module may generate a reception signal corresponding to an RF reception signal received via an NFC antenna and transmit the same to the processor or . The NFC module may generate an RF transmission signal corresponding to a transmission signal received from the AP and transmit the generated RF transmission signal to the outside via the NFC antenna . For example in the case where an NFC tag approaches the NFC antenna the NFC tag may operate in response to a radio wave output from the NFC antenna to transmit a signal information readable by the NFC module to the NFC antenna . The NFC module may output information received from an NFC tag to the AP . The AP may output information received via the NFC module via an output unit for example the display and the speaker .

The antenna test module or the detection module may measure a returning amount of current that is coming back to the device via the NFC antenna . When a returning amount of current does not meet a reference for example less than a threshold the antenna test module may output a signal indicating an abnormal operation state for example a contact failure between the NFC antenna and a plurality of terminals or destruction of the NFC antenna etc. of the NFC antenna to the AP . The AP may display a message for example The NFC antenna is not connected informing an abnormal state of the NFC antenna via the display in response to a signal from the antenna test module .

The antenna test module may measure a returning current amount from the NFC antenna in an operation for example a read write mode of the NFC function of the NFC module of periodically supplying a current to the NFC antenna .

A returning current amount may vary depending on a type for example a non NFC metal body an NFC tag or a human body etc. a position or an approaching range etc. of a member approaching the NFC antenna .

Referring now to the NFC controller for example the NFC module may periodically supply a current to the NFC antenna during a read write mode. The NFC controller may minimize a level of an average flowing current when actively scanning and processing data and reduce an amount of battery consumption by periodically supplying a current to the NFC antenna . The average current may be calculated by applying a time weighted average to a current of an active section and a current of a sleep section .

The NFC controller for example the antenna test module may detect a returning current amount from the NFC antenna in the active section . Here the returning current amount may be calculated as an average for a set time.

Referring now to at operation the NFC controller for example the antenna test module may detect an amount of current or power returning from the NFC antenna .

At operation the NFC controller for example the antenna test module may determine whether the returning current amount is less than a threshold.

When the amount of current that is returning is less than the predefined threshold the NFC controller for example the antenna test module may output a signal indicating an abnormal operation state of the NFC antenna to a processor for example the application processor in operation . is a flowchart illustrating a procedure for operating an application processor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Referring now to at operation the application processor may receive a signal indicating the abnormal operation state of the NFC antenna from the NFC controller that may be abnormal for example because the amount of current returning is less than a threshold.

Referring now to at operation the application processor may obtain a returning current amount for the NFC antenna from the NFC controller .

At operation the application processor may set for example display control voice control shooting control or wireless communication control etc. at least one user interface corresponding to the amount of returning current. For example the application processor may adjust transmission Tx power to at least one cellular antenna N in response to the amount of returning current. Alternatively the application processor may select at least one antenna used for cellular communication from among a plurality of cellular antennas N in response to the returning current amount. Alternatively the application processor may select at least one antenna matching circuit N in response to the amount of returning current and connect the selected at least one antenna matching circuit N to the RF transceiver module . Alternatively the application processor may switch a call receive mode for example a bell sound mode a mute lamp mode or a vibration mode etc. for call reception in response to the returning current amount. Alternatively the application processor may switch a communication mode for example a general phone mode or a speaker phone mode etc. in response to the returning current amount.

Referring now to at operation the application processor may obtain a returning current amount corresponding to metal body approaching from the NFC controller .

At operation the application processor may secure antenna performance in a way of controlling at least one antenna for example the cellular antenna N .

Referring now to at operation the application processor may obtain a returning current amount corresponding to an approaching of a user body for example gripping of UE from the NFC controller .

At operation the application processor may reduce Specific Absorption Rate SAR in a way of reducing transmission power of at least one antenna for example the cellular antenna N .

Referring now to at operation the application processor may obtain a returning current amount corresponding to approaching of a user body from the NFC controller .

At operation the application processor may switch a call receive mode from a sound mode to a vibration mode. For example in the case where a user grips UE with his hand reception of a call may be informed using vibration.

Referring now to at operation the application processor may receive a returning current amount corresponding to approaching of a user body from the NFC controller . At operation the application processor may switch a communication mode from a general communication mode to a speaker phone mode. For example during communication in the case where a user grips UE the general communication mode is executed and in the case where the user puts down the UE on the bottom the speaker phone mode may be executed.

Referring now to at operation the application processor may obtain a returning current amount for the NFC antenna from the NFC controller .

At operation the application processor may determine a type of an approaching member from the returning current amount. For example referring to a returning current amount from the NFC antenna may be various depending on a type of an approaching member.

In the case where the approaching member is an NFC tag at operation the application processor may execute reading or writing of the NFC tag.

In the case where the approaching member is a non NFC metal body at operation the application processor may execute an antenna control related to antenna performance. For example the application processor may selectively use at least one antenna N or at least one matching circuit N to prevent antenna performance deterioration by the non NFC metal body.

In the case where an approaching member is a body for example a hand a face etc. at operation the application processor may set a communication related user interface. For example in the case where a user allows an electronic device to get close to his face and performs communication the application processor may reduce a Specific Absorption Rate SAR in a way of reducing transmission Tx power to a cellular antenna N. Alternatively in the case where a user performs communication while gripping the electronic device with his hand the application processor may switch a communication mode from the speaker phone mode to the general communication mode.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device for example the electronic device may include at least one antenna for example the NFC antenna a detection module for detecting an amount of current returning from the at least one antenna and a setting module for setting at least one user interface corresponding to the amount of current.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in case of periodically supplying a current to the at least one antenna the detection module may detect the returning amount of current.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a case of periodically supplying a current to the at least one antenna may include a reader writer mode of an NFC function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in case of testing an abnormal operation state of the at least one antenna the detection module may detect the returning amount of current.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the detection module may calculate the returning amount of current using an average for a set time.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the detection module may include at least one sensor for example a sensor module or an NFC controller .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the setting module may determine information regarding an approaching member in response to the amount of current and set at least one user interface corresponding to the information regarding the approaching member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information regarding the approaching member may include at least one of a type of the approaching member an approach position an approach distance or an approach range.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure setting the at least one user interface may include at least one of display control voice control shooting control or wireless communication control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the at least one antenna may include at least one of a cellular antenna a Near Field Communication NFC antenna a Blue Tooth BT antenna and a Global Positioning System GPS antenna.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an operating method of an electronic device may include detecting an amount of a current returning from at least one antenna and setting at least one user interface corresponding to the current amount.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure detecting the amount of the current returning from the at least one antenna may include detecting an amount of a current returning in case of periodically supplying a current to the at least one antenna.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a case of periodically supplying a current to the at least one antenna may include a reader writer mode of a Near Field Communication NFC function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure detecting the amount of the current returning from the at least one antenna may include in case of testing an abnormal operation state of the at least one antenna detecting the amount of current

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure detecting the amount of the current returning from the at least one antenna may include calculating the amount of current returning by using an average for a set time.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure setting the at least one user interface corresponding to the amount of current may include determining information regarding an approaching member in response to the amount of current and setting the at least one user interface corresponding to the information regarding the approaching member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure setting the at least one user interface may include switching of a call receive mode or switching of a communication mode.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure setting the at least one user interface may include adjusting transmission Tx power of the at least one antenna.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a Near Field Communication NFC controller may include an NFC module for generating a reception signal corresponding to a Radio Frequency RF reception signal received via an NFC antenna to transmit the same to a processor for example an application processor and generating an RF transmission signal corresponding to a transmission signal received from the processor to transmit the same to an outside via the NFC antenna and a detection module for example an antenna test module for detecting an amount of a current returning from the NFC antenna to output the same to the processor .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the returning current amount is less than a threshold the detection module of the NFC controller may output a signal to the processor indicating an abnormal operation state of the NFC antenna .

The electronic device may configure for example all or a portion of the electronic device illustrated in . Referring now to the electronic device may include one or more application processors APs a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input unit a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may drive an Operating System OS or an application to control a plurality of hardware and software elements connected to the AP and perform various data processings including multimedia data and an operation. The AP may be for example implemented as a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module for example the communication interface may perform data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the electronic device or the server connected via a network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice communication image communication a short message service or an Internet service etc. via a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM etc. . Also the cellular module may perform discrimination and authentication of an electronic device within a communication network using for example a subscriber identity module for example a SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least a portion of functions that may be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a portion of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . Also the cellular module may be for example implemented as an SoC. Though elements such as the cellular module for example a communication processor the memory or the power management module etc. are illustrated as elements separated from the AP in according to an embodiment the AP may be implemented to include at least a portion for example the cellular module of the above described elements.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module for example a communication processor may load an instruction or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other elements connected thereto onto a volatile memory and process the same. Also the AP or the cellular module may store data received from at least one of other elements or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received via a relevant module. Though the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module are illustrated as separate blocks in according to an embodiment at least a portion for example two or more elements of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Circuit IC or an IC package. For example at least a portion for example a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of processors corresponding to each of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module may perform transmission reception of data for example transmission reception of an RF signal. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA etc. though not shown. Also the RF module may further include a part for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave on a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor or a conducting line etc. Though illustrates the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module according to an embodiment at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may perform transmission reception of an RF signal via a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card including a subscriber identity module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a specific position of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identify information for example integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory may include a built in memory or an external memory . The built in memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory etc. .

According to an embodiment the built in memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital Micro SD mini secure digital Mini SD extreme digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected with the electronic device via various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and convert the measured or detected information to an electric signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example RGB red green blue sensor a living body sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K an ultra violet UV sensor L or a stylus detector M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor not shown etc. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor belonging thereto.

The input unit may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input using at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. A capacitive touch panel may perform detection by a physical contact or proximity recognition. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented using for example a method which is the same as or similar to receiving a user s touch input or using a separate sheet for detection. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or keypad. The ultrasonic input unit is a unit for recognizing data by detecting a sound wave using a microphone for example a microphone in the electronic device via an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal and enables wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or a server connected to the communication module using the communication module .

The display for example the output unit may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED etc. The panel may be implemented for example such that it is flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram device may show a three dimensional image in the air using interferences of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be positioned for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

With continued reference to the interface may include for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included for example in the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure digital SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert a sound and an electric signal in dual directions. At least a partial element of the audio module may be included for example in the I O interface illustrated in . The audio module may process sound information input or output via for example a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone etc.

The camera module is a device that may shoot a still image and a moving picture. According to an embodiment the camera module may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Though not shown the power management module may include for example a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit IC or a battery or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted for example inside an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charging IC may charge a battery and prevent introduction of an overvoltage or an overcurrent from a charger. According to an embodiment the charging IC may include a charging IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may be for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic wave method etc. and may additionally include an additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier etc.

The battery gauge may measure for example a remnant of the battery a voltage a current or a temperature while charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or a portion thereof for example the AP for example a booting state a message state or a charging state etc. The motor may convert an electric signal to mechanical vibration. Though not shown the electronic device may include a processor for example a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processor for supporting the mobile TV may process media data corresponding to standards for example such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or a media flow etc.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according the present disclosure may be configured using one or more components and a name of a relevant element may change depending on a type of the electronic device. An electronic device according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements and a portion of the elements may be omitted or additional other elements may be further included. Also a portion of the elements of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may combine to form one entity and equally perform a function of the relevant elements before the combination.

According to various embodiments at least a portion of an apparatus for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented as an instruction stored in a computer readable storage media for example in the form of a programming module. An instruction may allow the one or more processors to perform a function corresponding to the instruction when executed by one or more processors for example the processor . The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least a portion of a programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least a portion of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process etc. for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable storage media may include a hard disk a magnetic media such as a floppy disk and a magnetic tape Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM optical media such as Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and a hardware device specially configured for storing and performing a program instruction for example a programming module such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory etc. Also the program instruction may include not only a machine language code generated by a compiler but also a high level language code executable by a computer using an interpreter etc. The above described hardware device may be configured to operate in order to perform an operation of the present disclosure.

A module or a programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements omit a portion thereof or further include additional other elements. Operations performed by a module a programming module or other elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed in a sequential parallel or heuristic method. Also a portion of the operations may be executed in a different sequence omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a storage medium storing instructions is provided. The instructions when executed by at least one processor are set to allow the at least one processor to perform at least one operation. In an operating method of an electronic device the at least one operation may include detecting an amount of a current returning from at least one antenna and setting at least one user interface corresponding to the current amount.

Also embodiments of the present disclosure disclosed in the present specification and drawings suggest only a specific example in order to easily explain technical content according to an embodiment of the present disclosure and help understanding of an embodiment of the present disclosure and are not intended for limiting the scope of an embodiment of the present disclosure. Therefore it should be construed that the scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure includes not only the embodiments disclosed herein but also all changes and modified forms derived based on the technical spirit of various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The apparatuses and methods of the disclosure can be implemented in hardware configured for operation that can be stored on a non transitory machine readable medium such as a CD ROM a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk thumbnail or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and stored on a local non transitory recording medium for execution by hardware such as a processor so that the methods described herein are loaded into hardware such as a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a processor microprocessor controller or control unit constitute hardware in the claimed disclosure that contain circuitry that is configured for operation. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims constitute statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101. Additionally or alternatively as used throughout the disclosure the term processing circuitry may refer to any combination of two or more of i the processor ii the interface controller e.g. a USB controller and iii any other type of integrated circuit that may be part of the electronic device.

The definition of the terms unit or module as referred to herein are to be understood as constituting hardware circuitry that may include but are not limited to a CCD CMOS ASIC or FPGA as integrated circuits of a processor or microprocessor as part of or constituting a controller or control unit configured for a certain desired functionality or a communication module containing hardware such as transmitter receiver or transceiver or a non transitory medium comprising machine executable code that is loaded into and executed by hardware for operation in accordance with statutory subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101 and do not constitute software per se.

