---

title: Method and system for managing and controlling direct access of an administrator to a computer system
abstract: A method, computer program product, and computer system for managing and controlling direct access of an administrator to a computer system. An interceptor application resides on the computer system and intercepts the direct access. The interceptor application receives a request for the direct access to the computer system and determines whether the administrator requests for a new ticket. The interceptor application redirects the administrator to log onto the service management system for generating the new ticket by the service management system, in response to determining that the administrator requests for the new ticket or open tickets are not found. The interceptor application receives from the service management system the new ticket and grants the administrator the direct access to the computer system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471804&OS=09471804&RS=09471804
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09471804
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150408
---
This application is a Continuation Application of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 769 878 filed on Feb. 19 2013.

The present invention relates generally to computer service management technologies and tools and more particularly to managing and controlling direct access of an administrator to a computer system.

In computer service management a service management ticketing system is used for managing and maintaining tickets such as incident problem and change tickets. The service management ticketing system ensures that administrator tasks of service management on a managed computer system are performed in a specific order. However there is no way to prevent an administrator from logging onto the managed computer system and carrying out a task without a valid service management ticket. In computer service management there is a demand for managing and controlling administrator access to managed computer systems. Currently known solutions are related to access restrictions.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a method computer program product and computer system for managing and controlling direct access of an administrator to a computer system. An interceptor application which resides on the computer system and intercepts the direct access receives a request for the direct access to the computer system. The interceptor application sends the administrator a message informing that the computer system is under service management. The interceptor application determines whether the administrator requests for a new ticket. The interceptor application requests a service management system to search open tickets in response to determining that the administrator does not request for the new ticket wherein the service management system comprising a ticketing system and a configuration management database CMDB storing the open tickets. The interceptor application redirects the administrator to log onto the service management system for generating the new ticket by the service management system based on at least one of determining that the administrator requests for the new ticket and determining that the open tickets are not found. The interceptor application receives from the service management system the new ticket. The interceptor application grants the administrator the direct access to the computer system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. The term of computer readable storage medium or one or more computer readable tangible storage devices as used in this document is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In the exemplary embodiment the direct access is that an administrator accesses directly a specific one of one or more computer systems e.g. computer system via system console . In other embodiments the direct access is that the administrator uses a VPN virtual private network or other mechanisms to bypass any boundary check and to access directly the specific one of one or more computer systems .

Interceptor application is software including at least one computer program which resides on each of one or more computer systems . In the exemplary embodiment interceptor application intercepts the direct access of the administrator from system console onto one or more computer systems . Interceptor application on each of one or more computer systems communicates with ticketing system on service management system via an application programming interface API such as XML extensible markup language SOAP simple object access protocol web services or others.

In the exemplary embodiment when a request for direct access to a specific one of computer systems e.g. computer is made by an administrator at system console interceptor application on computer sends the administrator at system console a warning message that the administrator is accessing a computer system under access restriction. This message may be presented using a banner a pop up or other communication.

In response to receiving from the administrator the request for direct access to the specific one of computer systems e.g. computer interceptor application on the specific one of computer systems requests ticketing system on service management system to search open service management tickets for the specific one of computer systems . Service management tickets are managed by ticketing system and stored on CMDB . The service management tickets include for example incident problem and change tickets. Each of the service management tickets is associated with a task of service management which is to be performed by the administrator.

Referring to on service management system ticketing system searches the open service management tickets by querying CMDB . For example a simple way of searching the open service management tickets is to search the text in descriptions of the open service management tickets. The text in the descriptions includes necessary information for identifying the specific one of computer systems for example the hostname and or the IP address. As another example a complex way of searching the open service management tickets is to search configuration items CIs of the specific one of computer systems . The CIs are tied to incident problem and change tickets.

Interceptor application presents all the open service management tickets to the administrator and requests the administrator to choose at least one ticket from the open service management tickets. In order to perform a task of service management the administrator must choose the at least one ticket from the open service management tickets. If the administrator chooses the at least one ticket interceptor application checks whether the at least one ticket is valid by checking status of the at least one ticket. For example in the case of an incident ticket interceptor application checks whether the incident ticket has status of open and is assigned to a group or a user associated to the administrator. In response to determining that the status is open and the incident ticket is assigned to a group or a user associated to the administrator interceptor application determines that the change ticket is valid otherwise interceptor application determines that the change ticket is not valid. Interceptor application grants the administrator s direct access to the specific one of computer systems in response to determining that the at least one ticket is valid. Otherwise interceptor application denies the administrator s direct access in response to determining that the at least one ticket is not valid.

In system of the present invention interceptor application is capable of redirecting the administrator to ticketing system on service management system . If the administrator is redirected to log onto ticketing system a new ticket is generated for the administrator by ticketing system . Once interceptor application receives the newly generated ticket from ticketing system interceptor application grants the administrator the direct access to the specific one of computer systems .

In system of the present invention interceptor application records information of the administrator s direct access on a log. For example the information recorded on the log includes information of who when and why the administrator logs onto the specific one of computer systems . Interceptor application transfers the information to ticketing system and ticketing system stores the information on CMDB .

In other embodiments of the present invention interceptor application may allow the administrator read only access to the specific one of computer systems under a situation where the at least one ticket chosen by the administrator is not valid. Interceptor application logs the read only access such that the administrator s activities beyond limitations of the read only access are flagged.

Referring to at step interceptor application receives a request for direct access to a specific one of computer systems e.g. computer shown in from an administrator who performs computer service management on the specific one of computer systems . In the exemplary embodiment the administrator requests for the direct access from system console shown in . In other embodiments the administrator requests for the direct access by using a VPN virtual private network or other mechanisms to bypass any boundary check.

At step interceptor application sends the administrator a message informing that the specific one of computer systems is under access restriction. This information may be presented using a banner pop up or other communication.

At decision block interceptor application determines whether the administrator requests to generate a new ticket for management service on the specific one of computer systems . For example interceptor application displays one or more buttons such as create an incident ticket create a problem ticket and create a change ticket . In response to receiving from the administrator a request for creating the new ticket YES branch of decision block at step interceptor application redirects the administrator to log onto ticketing system on service management system shown in .

In response to not receiving from the administrator a request for creating the new ticket NO branch of decision block at step interceptor application requests ticketing system to search open service management tickets. Ticketing system conducts a search by querying CMDB shown in which is also on service management system . Ticketing system searches the open service management tickets by searching the text in descriptions of the open service management tickets. The text in the descriptions includes necessary information such as the hostname and or the IP address. Ticketing system may also search the open service management tickets by searching configuration items CIs which are tied to the specific one of computer systems .

At decision block interceptor application determines in response to receiving the search result from ticketing system whether the open service management tickets are found. At step YES branch of decision block in response to that the open service management tickets are found interceptor application requests the administrator to choose at least one ticket from the open service management tickets. In response to that the open service management tickets are not found NO branch of decision block interceptor application at step redirects the administrator to log onto ticketing system on service management system in order for the administrator to have a new ticket generated by ticketing system .

At step interceptor application checks status of the at least one ticket. For example interceptor application checks whether a change ticket has the status of in progress or scheduled . Interceptor application determines at decision block whether the at least one ticket is valid. For example interceptor application determines that a change ticket at the status of in progress is valid or a change ticket at the status of scheduled is not valid.

In response to determining that the at least one ticket is valid interceptor application at step YES branch of decision block grants the administrator the direct access to the specific one of computer systems . In response to determining that the at least one ticket is not valid interceptor application at step NO branch of decision block denies the administrator the direct access to the specific one of computer systems .

After previously mentioned step at which interceptor application redirects the administrator to log onto ticketing system interceptor application receives at step the new ticket generated for the administrator by ticketing system . Then interceptor application grants at step the administrator the direct access to the specific one of computer systems .

After previously mentioned step at which interceptor application grants the administrator the direct access to the specific one of computer systems interceptor application at step records the administrator direct access to the specific one of computer systems on a log. For example interceptor application may record who when and why the administrator logs onto the specific one of computer system . At step interceptor application transfers information of the log to ticketing system . The transferred information is then stored on CMDB .

In other embodiments after interceptor application determines whether the at least one ticket is valid at decision block interceptor application allows the administrator read only access to the specific one of computer system in response to determining that no ticket is valid. Thus the administrator is given the read only access instead of denial to the specific one of computer system . In other embodiments allowing the read only access is a substitutive step of step in as a NO branch of decision block . After allowing the read only access interceptor application in a further step logs the read only access of the administrator.

Referring to the computer device includes communications fabric which provides communications among processor s memory tangible storage device s network interface s and I O input output interface s . Memory includes ROM s Read Only Memory RAM s Random Access Memory and cache s .

One or more operating system s and one or more computer program s reside on one or more computer readable tangible storage device s . In the exemplary embodiment on each of computer systems computer computer . . . or computer n one or more computer program s include interceptor application . In the exemplary embodiment on a computer device hosting service management system ticketing system shown in resides on one or more computer readable tangible storage device s . Configuration management database CMDB shown in also resides on one or more computer readable tangible storage device s . In other embodiments ticketing system and CMDB may reside on two separate computer devices respectively.

The computer device further includes I O interface s . I O interface s allow for input and output of data with external device s that may be connected to the computer device. The computer device further includes network interface s for communications between the computer device and a computer network.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

