---

title: Headset wireless charging dock
abstract: A method and system for a headset wireless charging dock, where the charging dock comprises a radio frequency (RF) radio, a charging induction coil, and a proximity sensor. The method may comprise sensing a presence of a headset using the proximity sensor, wirelessly charging a battery in the headset utilizing the charging induction coil, and wirelessly communicating commands, using the RF radio, to the headset to power down at least a portion of circuitry in the headset. The command may be communicated to the headset utilizing a protocol and a RF radio used by the headset to receive audio signals. The command communicated to the headset may power down audio processing circuitry in the headset. The charging induction coil may be inductively coupled to a coil in the headset to wirelessly charge the battery in the headset. The proximity sensor may comprise a Hall sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09653940&OS=09653940&RS=09653940
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 09653940
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150602
---
Aspects of the present application relate to audio headsets and more specifically to methods and systems for a headset wireless charging dock.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to headset charging will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for a headset wireless charging dock substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

Certain aspects of the disclosure may be found in a headset wireless charging dock. Example aspects of the disclosure may comprise in a charging dock that comprises a radio frequency RF radio a charging induction coil and a proximity sensor sensing a presence of a headset using the proximity sensor wirelessly charging a battery in the headset utilizing the charging induction coil and wirelessly communicating commands using the RF radio to the headset to power down at least a portion of circuitry in the headset. Commands may be communicated to the headset utilizing a protocol used by the headset to receive audio signals. The command may be communicated to a RF radio in the headset that is used to receive audio signals. The command communicated to the headset may power down audio processing circuitry in the headset. The charging induction coil may be inductively coupled to a coil in the headset to wirelessly charge the battery in the headset. The proximity sensor may comprise a Hall sensor. A power down command may be communicated to the headset when the charging dock senses the battery in the headset is fully charged. The battery in the headset being fully charged may be sensed by a measurement of current in the charging induction coil or by receiving a charging complete message from the headset.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . In other words x and or y means one or both of x and y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . In other words x y and or z means one or more of x y and z . As utilized herein the term exemplary means serving as a non limiting example instance or illustration. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry or a device is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry or device comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled e.g. by a user configurable setting factory trim etc. .

Referring to there is shown game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a video interface radio data interface network interface video interface audio interface southbridge main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various busses links and .

The southbridge comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment 2 SATA 2 embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The southbridge may receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA 2 and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA 2 and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The southbridge exchanges data with radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like.

The network interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. The video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise circuitry operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory which stores parameter settings that affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may also comprise settings for various charging modes for a headset coupled to the console. For example certain circuitry may be powered down when in a charging mode. The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory comprises high speed memory typically DRAM for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to a user interface device a user interface device a network a monitor and audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth and or the like . The user interface device communicates with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuitry. The game console sends audio to the subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . Additional details of an example audio subsystem are described below.

Referring to again shown is the console connected to a plurality of peripheral devices and a network . The example peripheral devices shown include a monitor a user interface device a headset an audio basestation and a multi purpose device .

The monitor and user interface device are as described above. An example implementation of the headset is described below with reference to . In an example scenario the headset may comprise directional microphones that may be configured based on the audio environment around the headset .

The multi purpose device may be for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface via which a user can access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings etc. and via which the user can interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance his her gaming experience.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one or more devices of the GPN .

In an example scenario the headset may communicate with the gaming console and then placed in a charger when finished or upon indication from the headset that the battery is depleted. Users often leave headsets one when placing in a charger thereby leaving unneeded circuitry on and slowing charging. Therefore the headset may be placed in a wireless charger that communicates via RF to the headset to configure various function of the headset such as powering down all unneeded circuitry while powering up charging control circuitry and or charging indicators for example on the headset . The charging apparatus is described further respect to .

While the headset in is shown communicating with a gaming console the disclosure is not so limited as this is merely an example use for the headset . Accordingly the headset may be utilized in other applications such as a cellular phone headset music player headset or as a headset in any other communications application and or protocol.

Referring to there is shown two views of an example headset that may present audio output by a gaming console such as the console . The headset comprises a headband a microphone boom with microphone ear cups and which surround speakers and connector connector and user controls .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone converts acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct or the like with another computing device and or the like.

The connector may be for example a USB port. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

In an example scenario the headset may be charged wirelessly when placed in a charging dock and may receive instructions communicated from the dock to power down unneeded circuitry while charging. For example audio processing control circuitry portions of communications circuitry and indictor circuitry may be powered down upon receiving instructions from the charging dock.

The radio may comprise radio frequency RF circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage device may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry .

As yet another example scenario the parameter settings may comprise settings for charging of the headset when placed in a charging dock. When the dock detects the presence of the headset it may communicate signals to the headset via the radio for controlling functions during charging. For example the circuitry that is not needed for charging may be powered down during charging based on commands received from the charging dock. In one example the charging dock may send a simple command indicating that the headset is docked and the CPU and charge control circuitry may determine circuitry to power down. In another example the charging dock may communicate commands to the headset specifying what functions and or circuitry to power down.

Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

The charge control module may comprise suitable circuitry logic and or code for controlling the charging of the battery . Accordingly the charge control module may receive electrical current from the induction coil which in turn receives electromagnetic energy from a charging induction coil in the charging station via inductive coupling. The charge control module may also receive instructions from the CPU which may receive instructions from a charging station via the radio .

In an example scenario an alternating current in the induction coil may be utilized by the charge control module to charge the battery . In this manner the battery may be charged without the need for any physical connection to a charging station but merely by being in close proximity with the distance determined by the induction coil and associated coil in the charging station. Furthermore the headset may receive commands wirelessly from the charging station in which the headset is placed as shown in . The charging station may sense the presence of the headset and activate an induction coil in the charging station that is inductively coupled to the induction coil in the headset . In addition the radio may receive signals communicated from the charging station indicating that the headset is now docked in the charging station and can power down unneeded functions of the headset . For example the audio processing circuit and portions of the CPU not needed for charging may be shut down. Similarly indicator lights or displays may be powered down for example.

By placing sensing circuitry in the charging station and communicating charging power down commands by the radio which is also used for communicating audio signals to and from the headset full charging control may be enabled without the need for proximity sensing and dedicated charging control communications circuitry in the headset .

In addition wireless commands may be communicated from the charging dock to the headset via the normal RF communication circuitry in the headset through which audio and other signals are communicated. The commands may comprise simple instructions such as power down or may be more detailed specifically indicating which circuitry should be powered down and therefore may be utilized to power down portions of the headset that are not needed during charging which may decrease charging time.

The radio may be similar to the radio described with respect to although may comprise more simplified or greater functionality. Accordingly the radio may comprise RF circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s .

The proximity sensor may comprise circuitry for determining the proximity of a headset such as the headset and may comprise a Hall sensor for example which may sense when a magnet such as magnets in the speakers of the headset is within range. Accordingly when a headset is placed in close proximity such as in a cradle or docking port the sensor may indicate this to the charge control module so that it may start a charge process via the charge induction coil .

The power connector may comprise a port into which a power cord may be coupled to power the charging dock .

In operation when a headset is placed in or on the charging dock the proximity sensor may indicate the presence of the headset to the charge control module which may begin a charge process via the charge induction coil . In addition the charge control module may communicate commands to the docked headset via the radio which may communicate the signals using the same protocol used by the headset for sending and receiving audio signals.

The commands sent to the headset via the radio may comprise power down commands shutting down the headset for example or powering down all circuitry except for that needed for charging. Once charging is completed either sensed by current in the charging induction coil or via a status message received from the headset the charging dock may communicate a command to the headset to power down completely.

In starting step a headset e.g. the headset may be turned on and may be utilized to send receive and emit audio signals. In step the headset may be placed in or on the charging dock for charging.

In step a sensor in the charging dock may indicate to charging circuitry in the charging dock that the headset is present and a charging process may begin via inductive coupling for example.

In step the charging circuitry may communicate commands to the radio circuitry in the headset. In step the radio in the headset may receive the commands from the charging dock which may comprise commands to power down the headset or at least portions not needed for charging. For example audio processing circuitry and some or all data processing circuitry may be powered down while charging to speed charge time.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure a headset wireless charging dock is disclosed and may comprise a charging dock comprising a radio frequency RF radio a charging induction coil and a proximity sensor the charging dock being operable to sense a presence of a headset using the proximity sensor wirelessly charge a battery in the headset utilizing the charging induction coil and wirelessly communicate a command using the RF radio to the headset to power down at least a portion of circuitry in the headset. The charging dock may communicate the command to the headset utilizing a protocol used by the headset to receive audio signals.

The charging dock may communicate the command to a RF radio in the headset that is used to receive audio signals. The command communicated to the headset may power down audio processing circuitry in the headset. The charging induction coil may be inductively coupled to a coil in the headset to wirelessly charge the battery in the headset. The proximity sensor may comprise a Hall sensor. The charging dock may communicate a power down command to the headset when the charging dock senses the battery in the headset is fully charged. The charging dock may sense the battery in the headset is fully charged by a measurement of current in the charging induction coil or by receiving a charging complete message from the headset. The headset may comprise a gaming headset.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

