---

title: Rules-based compliance system
abstract: A rules-based compliance system enables a permitted user to define one or more contact attempt suppression rules, wherein each contact attempt suppression rule is adapted to be triggered when a configurable number of past contact attempts as defined in the contact attempt suppression rule have been attempted. A set of contacts are then received by the system. During a communications campaign, and before being issued, a contact in the set of contacts is compared against each of the one or more contact attempt suppression rules. The compliance system is then operative to suppress at least one contact based on a result of the comparison that indicates that a given one of the one or more contact attempt suppression rules is satisfied for the contact. A user may also provision one or more contact location rules that suppress contacts based on location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591135&OS=09591135&RS=09591135
owner: Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09591135
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151120
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 225 494 filed on Mar. 26 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 197 751 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to managing interactive communication campaigns over a computer network such as the Internet.

It is known to provide a web based hosted solution through which business entities create and manage interactive or notification communications campaigns. An example of an interactive communications campaign is a telephone campaign to determine whether a target recipient desires to transfer a credit card balance to a new account a campaign to remind a recipient that a credit card payment is due and to offer the recipient an opportunity to speak with a customer representative concerning any payment issues or the like. Examples could also include communications via email message SMS message or web page or some combination. The hosted solution typically is implemented as an application or managed service provider. One or more business entities clients that desire to use the service typically register and access the service through an on line e.g. web based portal. In one representative use scenario the managed service provider entity provides outbound telemarketing services on behalf of participating clients. The campaign typically is provisioned by the client. Thus for example using a web based interface a participating client defines a script for the campaign imports a set of contacts typically the client s actual customers and defines one or more parameters that govern how the campaign is to be run. At a designated time the service provider initiates the campaign e.g. by providing the contacts to a set of telephone servers that set up and manage the telephone calls or SMS or emails as the case may be to the targets of the campaign. During a given outbound call as noted above a recipient a customer may be afforded an option to connect to a contact center e.g. to speak to a customer representative. In such implementations the hosted solution typically is integrated directly with the contact center s on premises or cloud based automatic call distributor ACD .

As mentioned above one common use scenario for a platform as described above is to provide for a scalable e.g. cloud based solution that enables companies to maximize contacts and payments while minimizing risks and costs. To this end the platform may be used to enable payment reminders self service payments expedited payments cross channel collections and the like. While the platform provides significant advantages in this regard exposure to compliance risk is at an all time high. Contact centers are operating in an uncertain and tightening national and local regulatory environment increasing the cost and complexity of doing business. At the same time consumers are filing lawsuits at a record pace many times resulting in organizations paying hefty fines.

A well implemented hosted solution such as described above can help contact centers mitigate risk by providing tools and mechanisms that facilitate compliance while mitigating risks. For example one known solution Genesys Engage formerly Soundbite Compliance Suite for Contact Centers prevents prohibited numbers from being contacted ensures agents adhere to regulatory or other requirements controls contact frequency keeps up with consumer mobility and phone portability and enables effective management of consumer consent. While a solution of this type provides significant advantages compliance requirements such as FDCPA TCPA FCRA PCI DSS GLBA HIPAA EDPD UK Data Protection Act among others are complex broad reaching and ever changing. A platform that provides a comprehensive compliance solution must help customers potentially operating across a variety of industries to manage compliance and adapt their strategies as new demands are imposed from regulatory agencies e.g. the FCC FTC CFPB CRTC and others at all government Federal State and international levels.

A web based hosted solution through which business entities create and manage communications campaigns is enhanced to include a compliance manager by which authorized users create manage and enforce compliance rules that cause contact attempts to be suppressed. Preferably there are two basic types of rules contact attempt rules and contact location rules. Generally contact attempt rules suppress contact attempts based on a history of previous attempts to each contact and contact location rules suppress contact attempts based on the location of each contact. These rules may be implemented separately or together. Preferably each contact is evaluated and if necessary suppressed just before the communication e.g. call SMS MMS email video social media etc. is attempted. In one embodiment a rule may be required or optional. Required rules are always applied to every sub campaign within the enterprise or account in addition preferably enterprise level rules are available to or applied to if required all accounts within an enterprise and account level rules are available or applied to each individual account. Optional rules may be chosen by the user on the campaign template or the sub campaign settings. Preferably each rule has a priority and the priority value controls the order in which rules are executed. A user interface provides the user the ability to create a rule edit a rule copy a rule from an existing rule delete a rule re order rule priority add and remove rules from sub campaigns and campaign templates and the like.

In one embodiment of a rules based compliance system a permitted user defines one or more contact attempt suppression rules wherein each contact attempt suppression rule is adapted to be triggered when a configurable number of past contact attempts as defined in the contact attempt suppression rule have been attempted. A set of contacts are then received by the system. During a communications campaign and before being issued a contact in the set of contacts is compared against each of the one or more contact attempt suppression rules. The compliance system is then operative to suppress at least one contact assuming a rule is fired based on a result of the comparison that indicates that a given one of the one or more contact attempt suppression rules is satisfied for the contact.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the subject matter. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed subject matter in a different manner or by modifying the subject matter as will be described.

The technique herein may be used by a service provider that enables personalized multi channel customer communications. illustrates a representative service provider or system architecture of this type. The approach is not limited for use with a service provider that provides customer communications as it may also be implemented by other entities. Thus for example the functionality may be implemented at an enterprise level e.g. by a large enterprise with various business units .

The service provider architecture typically is implemented in or across one or more data centers. A data center typically has connectivity to the Internet. Generally and as well known the system provides a web based hosted solution through which business entities create and manage communications campaigns. Campaigns may be interactive or non interactive outbound and or inbound. An outbound campaign is one in which communications are initiated from the service provider to end users. An inbound communication typically involves a customer calling a contact center or the like. Representative outbound campaigns include without limitation account renewal campaigns balance transfer or consolidation offer campaigns billing issue campaigns credit card activation campaigns fraud alert campaigns payment or past due reminder campaigns phone or customer survey campaigns debt recovery campaigns late payment with right party verification campaigns payment reminder with direct connect to call center campaigns appointment reminder campaigns welcome call campaigns account renewal campaigns affinity cross sell rewards program campaigns crisis management disaster recovery campaigns new product offer campaigns inquiry web follow up campaigns contract renewal campaigns service availability notification campaigns promotional offer campaigns service delivery confirmation campaigns auto responder campaigns trivia sweepstakes campaigns marketing alert campaigns and the like. The particular type of campaign is not a limitation or feature of the disclosed subject matter.

In a well known operation a business entity a client user has a machine such as a workstation notebook or laptop computer tablet or other mobile device. Typically a business entity user accesses the service provider architecture by opening a web browser on the machine to a URL associated with a service provider domain. In an alternative the client may operate its own dedicated client application in lieu of a web browser to access a server side of the application. Access may also be through an automated process such as via a Web services application programming interface API . Where a web browser is used the client authenticates to the managed service in the usual manner e.g. by entry of a username and password. The connection between the business entity machine and the service provider infrastructure may be encrypted or otherwise secure e.g. via SSL or the like. Although connectivity via the publicly routed Internet is typical the business entity may connect to the service provider infrastructure over any local area wide area wireless wired private or other dedicated network. As seen in the service provider architecture comprises an IP switch a set of one or more web server machines a set of one more application server machines a database management system and a set of one or more telephony server machines . A representative web server machine comprises commodity hardware e.g. Intel based an operating system such as Linux and a web server such as Apache 2.x. A representative application server machine comprises commodity hardware Linux and an application server such as WebLogic 9.2 or later . The database management system may be implemented as an Oracle or equivalent database management package running on Linux. A representative telephony server machine is an application server that implements appropriate software applications for call set up voice processing and other call connection and management activities. An application may implement the Media Resource Control Protocol MRCP . In the alternative a telephony server machine may execute an application server in conjunction with one or more PSTN VoIP and or voice processing cards that provide interconnectivity for telephone based calling applications. In a card based embodiment a representative card is a CG 6565 or variant series available from Dialogic or an equivalent. Typically a voice processing application port or card has a finite number of supported ports. In a high volume call environment there may be several web server machines several application server machines and a large number of telephony server machines. Although not shown in detail the infrastructure may include a DNS name service FTP servers MRCP Media Resource Control Protocol servers load balancing appliances other switches and the like. Each machine typically comprises sufficient disk and memory as well as input and output devices. The software environment on each machine includes a Java virtual machine JVM if control programs are written in Java. Generally the web servers handle incoming business entity provisioning requests and they export a management interface that is described in more detail below. The application servers manage the basic functions of generating campaign scripts managing contacts and executing campaigns. The telephony servers handle most telephony related functions including without limitation executing outbound calls and forwarding calls to a contact center. The particular hardware and software implementation details described herein are merely for illustrative purposes are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention. Indeed the approach herein may be virtualized in whole or in part using cloud resources SDN NFV and the like.

In a representative embodiment a typical machine in the service infrastructure is a processor based server running Linux and the server includes a telephone interface. A typical interface has up to 200 ports and each port may be considered a separate telephone line. There are typically a set of such servers operating at a given location e.g. an Internet data center . The following is a typical operation of the service. Using a Web browser or the Web service API a client provisions a campaign provisioning a script to be played to a target customer. The scope and content of the script will depend on the campaign. The client also provides the service provider with contact information for a set of persons who are the target recipients of the campaign. In operation the system batches a subset of those contacts to one of the machines in the server farm.

Using the service provider infrastructure a business entity can create execute and manage a campaign. As noted above a campaign may have associated therewith one or more sub campaigns. Using a Web interface a client loads a list of contacts who will be called and associates that list with a script. A sub campaign refers to one or more passes through a contact list that has been bound to a script and that has been associated with a given timeframe. Thus a sub campaign associates at least the following items a list of contacts a script and a timeframe. Additional details regarding sub campaigns are set forth below. A script determines what will happen during a phone call or SMS conversation. Typically a script is formatted as XML and specifies a sequence of audio prompts that are played and what happens when the recipient takes certain actions such as pressing a button on the phone or speaking a response. One or more contact lists are stored in a contact database and typically a contact list comprises a set of contacts. A contact typically is an individual in the contact database and this individual is sometimes referred to as the customer as technically the individual is a customer of the client using the managed service . A contact can include home work or cell numbers a client identifier an email address or the like. Also contacts typically include first name last name company and other information.

With reference to and as described above a business entity connects to the service provider authenticates and then uses one or more applications to create execute and manage the campaign. These applications execute on the application server machines and operate in association with one or more databases that are supported within the database management system. These applications include for example a contact management application a campaign management engine a scheduling engine and a scripting engine . The contact management application handles the receipt and storage of the contact list s uploaded e.g. via FTP or otherwise to the system by or on behalf of the business entity client. The scripting engine handles the creation and managing of the campaign scripts using instructions entered by or on behalf of the business entity client via a web based interface or Web services API. The campaign management engine manages the campaign by interoperating with the scheduling engine which in turn interoperates with the telephony servers to execute the campaign. The business entity client evaluates or monitors the campaign from summary detail and or custom reports generated by a reporting engine application . Campaign evaluation and monitoring may also be performed via a Web based user interface or in an automated manner via an API. Notification campaigns are executed using email servers and SMS or MMS servers or by other means such as by telephone. Of course SMS campaigns may involve more than notifications and may be interactive. This is also the case for Web based interaction.

As also illustrated in after connecting an outbound call to a target customer the customer may elect to be connected to the contact center typically a third party call center or the system may perform that direct connect automatically once it determines that a human being as opposed to an answering machine has answered the outbound call. The system typically obtains information about the contact center s performance during a given communications campaign commonly without requiring a direct connection between the infrastructure and a contact center s on premises ACD. This enables the managed service provider to integrate with both its business entity clients and with their associated contact center environments rapidly and efficiently. The interconnectivity between the managed service provider and the contact center may be inferred from how calls that originate from the service provider to the target recipients who have expressed an interest in being connected to the contact center are actually handled. This connectivity is provided by the control engine which is responsible for dispatching calls at an appropriate rate while ensuring that all customer requested rule parameters are honored.

As noted above preferably a web based interface is provided to enable a business entity client to create a set of one or more management rules that when triggered during the campaign cause the infrastructure and in particular certain control applications therein to take certain control actions in real time preferably based on campaign performance.

A campaign refers to an overall series of calls texts or emails or some combination thereof in the case of a blended campaign to a contact list using one or more sub campaigns that use a given script. Campaigns also act as templates for the sub campaigns that are created under them. A campaign typically has a preset configuration that applies to all of its sub campaigns. As noted above a sub campaign refers to one or more passes through a contact list using a script and that is constrained to a particular timeframe or at a set of one or more such times . A sub campaign typically runs under an existing campaign. A script as noted above determines what happens during a phone call SMS conversation email message or web based interaction. Typically the script specifies a sequence of audio prompts that are played to a client an end user who receives a call and what happens the contact center connection when the recipient takes certain actions such as pressing a button on the phone or speaking an answer to a query . The script may also specify other actions such as effecting a contact center connection automatically when detecting that a human being has answered. The nature and type of actions set forth in a script thus may be quite varied and this disclosure is not limited to any particular process flow within a script.

The hosted service typically also includes a preference management PM module or platform . The PM system maintains a set of consumer preferences or attributes related to communication and behavior. These include among many others opt in opt in date opt in method and opt in user. The service maintains databases of such opt in preferences and values. Preferably consumer preferences are created maintained and accessed in one of several ways via a web based portal via a voice portal via an application programming interface API or via a mobile or smartphone application. The users of the preference management system typically include without limitation a client administrator a client customer service representative or the consumer himself or herself in other words the client s customers .

To this end the hosted service typically includes a campaign strategy management CSM module. A service customer accesses CSM functionality through a web based graphical user interface GUI via a programmatic interface or otherwise. The CSM component allows customers to define more granular and specific campaign strategies including pass escalation for alternative channels e.g. text and email and or based upon attempt results contact attributes and response group data. The campaign strategy manager allows users to define pass escalation strategies statically and dynamically to manage lists across multiple campaigns and to view results in real time. A defined strategy is a static strategy created by a user for a particular campaign that once created typically is not modified. A dynamic strategy is one where during the course of a day e.g. as a sub campaign is running a user may alter the defined strategy preferably just for that day or portion thereof .

A permitted user associated with the customer accesses CSM to develop a campaign or modify an existing campaign. As noted above a campaign typically includes one or more sub campaigns each of which operates on a contact list. List management typically involves a user loading a list into the system e.g. using web based tools FTP upload or the like and then dividing the contacts among different campaigns typically based upon selected contact attributes.

A campaign strategy typically includes one or more components including a name a script a skill group and reporting options. The campaign strategy is a subset of these components and it typically includes one or more of the following campaign level filtering pass pattern namely escalation type none contact based call pass based and intra pass device escalation and number and type of passes voice text or email . Each pass itself can include components such as pass level list filtering contact accept criteria delivery timeframe delivery options and re try options.

CSM enables the user to create a single pass event based sub campaign for each channel of a multi channel campaign. A channel is one of voice text email AVM Web or some combination. CSM exposes one or more strategy templates that can be pre populated offline or external to the runtime system and then uploaded to the system for execution with respect to a particular campaign. In one embodiment the strategy template is created in XML and it defines specific aspects of a campaign strategy including number of passes contact accept criteria for each pass delivery timeframe delivery and re try options and filtering options.

One or more functions of a technology platform such as described above may be implemented in a cloud based architecture. Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. Available services models that may be leveraged in whole or in part include Software as a Service SaaS the provider s applications running on cloud infrastructure Platform as a service PaaS the customer deploys applications that may be created using provider tools onto the cloud infrastructure Infrastructure as a Service IaaS customer provisions its own processing storage networks and other computing resources and can deploy and run operating systems and applications . A cloud based platform may comprise co located hardware and software resources or resources that are physically logically virtually and or geographically distinct. Communication networks used to communicate to and from the platform services may be packet based non packet based and secure or non secure or some combination thereof.

More generally the techniques described herein are provided using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions or the like that together facilitate or provide the described functionality described above. In a typical implementation a representative machine on which the software executes comprises commodity hardware an operating system an application runtime environment and a set of applications or processes and associated data networking technologies etc. that together provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. As described the functionality may be implemented in a standalone machine or across a distributed set of machines.

The service provider architecture may be on premises cloud based or hybrid on premises and cloud in whole or in part.

Using a web accessible set of display interfaces e.g. one or more web pages with fill in forms dropdown menus and other such controls the platform enables the user to design campaign strategies and sub campaigns that contain settings to allow outbound contacts to be filtered e.g. by state province time zone or other criteria. It may also provide for contact history suppression that allows the user to suppress contact attempts based on previous attempts from the campaign account or enterprise to a particular contact made within a given time period e.g. the last 1 30 days. In this known approach contacts are evaluated and suppressed in bulk at the start of the time zone for a pass.

In one platform compliance functionality supports the ability to prohibit contact attempts based on State or province day of week time of day and date e.g. holidays and other significant dates . In this approach contacts attempts that would have occurred in any of these locations or at on any of these times dates are not attempted suppressed .

The above described compliance functionality is enhanced according to this disclosure through the use of a new system of compliance rules. Preferably there are two basic types of rules contact attempt rules and contact location rules. Generally and as will be seen contact attempt rules suppress contact attempts based on the history of previous attempts to each contact and contact location rules suppress contact attempts based on the location of each contact. Typically compliance rules are rules of exclusion they cause contact attempts to be suppressed. Preferably each contact is evaluated and if necessary suppressed just before the call SMS email is attempted. Preferably rules are evaluated before making each attempt and changed rules are evaluated for any new attempts.

In one embodiment rules are created at an enterprise level e.g. in the enterprise account and the account level. Enterprise rules are then available to all accounts in the enterprise. In this approach account rules are available only to the account in which they exist although this is not a limitation.

A rule may be required or optional. Required rules are always applied to every sub campaign within the enterprise or account. Optional rules may be chosen by the user on the campaign template or the sub campaign settings much like suppression lists are chosen . Preferably each rule has a priority which is an integer from 1 highest to 999 lowest . The priority controls the order in which rules are executed.

In one example scenario is a representative display interface listing a set of Do Not Contact Attempt Rules that a user has provisioned. In these examples when conditions of the rule are met the system suppresses attempts from all pass types to the location s listed in the rule. As illustrated there are three 3 enterprise level rules provisioned in the identified priority order. The first two rules are required and the third one is optional. The scope enterprise campaign account is also identified. The display also identifies two 2 account level rules also provisioned in the identified order. Thus in this example each sub campaign that is running has some combination of enterprise and account rules in affect required rules plus any additional rules that are chosen .

During the sub campaign and just prior to each contact attempt these rules are executed against the contact and device preferably in the following order enterprise location rules highest to lowest account location rules highest to lowest enterprise attempt rules highest to lowest and account attempt rules highest to lowest . Other sequences may be used. When a rule is triggered suppression is carried out according to the conditions identified in the applicable rule. Preferably and for a given attempt once a rule is triggered no further rules are evaluated.

The above described interfaces are merely representative and should not be taken to limit the disclosed subject matter. Other display configurations and ancillary display interfaces may be used. Thus for example illustrates an alternative version of the contact attempt rule configuration interface . In this modified version the rule is configured with the location fill in field directly and the media type s are identified from a separate dropdown list . illustrates representative interfaces by which the permitted user configures a definition for an attempt. 

Typically the display interfaces are provided as web pages in a web accessible configuration interface. The contact attempt and contact location rules may be configured in other ways e.g. programmatically.

According to this disclosure a compliance system provides a permitted user the ability to design and implement contact attempt rules. A content attempt rule is based on an attempt. A contact attempt rule describes some way in which if the rule is applied to a sub campaign or more generally a campaign contact attempts are suppressed preferably just before they would have been made as opposed to when the sub campaign is created or contacts for the time zone have begun . Preferably the list of rules itself does not cause suppression to occur aside from required rules as described below . Rather the list merely provides a list of suppression rules that are available to sub campaigns.

Preferably and as noted above contact attempt rules may be configured as required or optional. Required rules are applied to every sub campaign in the enterprise or account. Each contact attempt rule describes a suppression scenario typically for one of the following Client ID Device and Client ID Device combination. Client ID counts previous attempts to any device on the current contact regarding of which of those devices is currently being attempted. Device counts previous attempts to the current device regardless of what Client ID the previous attempts were associated with. The combination Client ID Device counts previous attempts to the same ClientID Device combination as the current attempt. Preferably each contact attempt rule identifies one or more specific channels e.g. pass type or all channels. Preferably each contact attempt rule has a attempt direction such as Inbound Outbound or Either. The direction information enables outbound contact attempts to be suppressed based on inbound contacts from a device or contact. Inbound and outbound attempts preferably are tracked separately but they may be combined for purposes of suppression. This is fill in field in .

A contact attempt rule preferably is based on either all previous attempts or only attempts in which an answering machine message was left whether a complete or partial message was left . A checkbox as shown in may be selected for this latter purpose.

 Suppress based at least attempts in the last hours days from the Campaign Account Enterprise to a device Client ID located in one or more of the following anywhere in a specified postal code in a specified area code including outside of North America wherein area codes are determined by geo data in a specified device time zone based on the device telephone number in a specified contact time zone in a specified region e.g. state province a contact for a ClientID a device for a ClientID device and in a specified country. 

The particular grammar and syntax of a contact attempt rule is not limited to the above described example.

Of course the various scenarios that may be implemented may be quite varied and other constraints attributes may be applied within a particular rule. Thus for example a user may design a contact attempt rule to include additional constraints such as Suppress all attempts in a sub campaign if there have been at least attempts resulting in a specified completion status disposition code response group message level session variable in the sub campaign. Another rule may Suppress all attempts in an account if there have been at least attempts resulting in a specified completion status disposition code response group message level session variable in the last days in the account enterprise . Another rule would be same as the above except based on a percentage of the list reaching the specified result instead of attempts. A contact attempt rule may specify that all attempts to any of the above are suppressed even if there were no previous attempts of any sort. The number n in the rule structure may be up to a relatively large value e.g. . In the rule structure shown above a user can based on previous attempts going back 1 to 23 hours or 1 to least 31 days this limit is configurable via a parameter . Preferably specifying 1 day for example should mean today as opposed to the last 24 hours. Preferably specifying Today is based on the time zone of the contact or device being attempted.

Other such action based variants are also contemplated and implemented by the system. Thus suppression may be carried out based not just on previous attempts made to from contact recipients but also based on previous actions taken by contact recipients. For example a particular rule may enforce suppression if a contact has previously listened to at least a configurable number of seconds of a previous message or if the user has previously responded in a certain configurable way to a text message or the like.

A rule may include a list of postal codes area codes time zones regions or states at one time. Preferably a user also is able to specify whether each of the following completion statuses should be considered an attempt for purposes of contact attempt rules BUSY default not an attempt NOT CONNECTED e.g. SIT default not an attempt Failed SMS message default is an attempt Failed email message default is an attempt . As noted above a representative interface for this purpose is illustrated in .

The user interface provides the user the ability to configure contact attempt rules as follows create a rule edit a rule copy a rule from an existing rule delete a rule re order rule priority add and remove rules from sub campaigns and campaign templates except that required rules may not be removed . If an existing rule is edited replaced or deleted preferably any sub campaign in which it is being used is affected immediately so the user should be warned and required to confirm before the change is applied. Rule additions changes and deletions preferably take effect immediately even for currently running sub campaigns. An alternative embodiment is to have a rule addition change or deletion occur conditionally or depending on some external event. Preferably deleting a rule does not bring back any contact attempts that have already been suppressed by that rule. Preferably all changes to contact attempt rules create edit re order delete are logged to the actions log if the change is associated with a sub campaign and an events log for the account or enterprise account . All changes to contact attempt rules create edit re order delete preferably are logged to an actions log if the change is associated with a sub campaign and the events log for the account or enterprise account.

Preferably and as also noted above a user is provided the ability to control an order or priority of the rules. Rule priority does not affect which contacts will be attempted but it does affect reporting. Preferably a highest priority first rule that causes a contact not to be attempted is the one that is reported in summary and detail reports. Preferably no two rules in an enterprise account have same priority and preferably no two rules in an account have the same priority. Each contact attempt rule has a name. Preferably no two rules in an enterprise account have the same name and no two rules in an account have the same name. Preferably enterprise level rules are applied in priority order followed by account level rules. Preferably each contact attempt rule has a report as value which will appear as the reason code for the suppression in detail reports. Preferably more than one rule may have the same report as value thus allowing different compliance rules to be grouped together for reporting purposes.

Preferably compliance functionality using contact attempt rules is available at both an enterprise and account level. Enterprise users may create suppression rules that are used by all accounts in the enterprise. Account users preferably have access to the enterprise level rules but may not be able to edit them. Account users may create suppression rules at the account level these rules should be available to any user of the account in addition to the enterprise level rules.

As noted above contact location rules suppress contact attempts using the location of each contact to determine whether to suppress. For example suppress all attempts to area codes 617 ad 781 or suppress all attempts to postal codes FIQQ 1ZZ TKCA 1ZZ and BIQQ 1ZZ. 

Preferably each location rule is made up of the following attributes a rules tag with a type attribute of Contact e.g. . For example . Attempt rules are enclosed in a rules tag with a type attribute of Contact Attempt. For example . The location rule includes a name attribute a required attribute that either is true indicating whether the rule is required or false indicating that the rule is optional a priority attribute 1 999 which a unique priority per account assigned to each rule within its type preferably rules that cause the most suppression having the highest priority a type attribute Device or ClientID a passType attribute e.g. voice dialer manual preview text and email that enables the location rule to be applied to attempts for only a specified channel or all channels etc. and a location attribute e.g. regions areaCodes timeZone countries PostalCodes etc. .

Once again the particular contact location rule may be specified using any syntax or grammar. A single location related attribute in a rule may contain one or more values. A single location rule may specify more than one different location related attribute for example states and area codes .

Preferably contact attempt and location rules are managed from a Compliance page within a Campaigns tab in the enterprise account or a regular account. Rules can be created by loading an XML file of rules via the UI or they may be individually created via the UI. As noted above preferably users in a regular account can see enterprise level rules but cannot modify or remove them. Loading rules via an XML file preferably causes all existing rules in the account or enterprise account to be removed and replaced entirely by the rules in the XML.

Once the desired rules have been created in the account the enterprise account or both they are available for use by campaigns. Using compliance rules involves choosing which rules will be applied for a sub campaign. Preferably compliance rules can be chosen on the settings for a campaign as well as for individual sub campaigns that are created within those campaigns. Any compliance rules chosen for a campaign become the default choices for new sub campaigns but of course those choices can be overridden when new sub campaigns are created.

Preferably when new required rules are created in an enterprise or account the system is configured to enforce those rules substantially in or near real time including for sub campaigns that are currently running. Likewise when a rule is modified or removed preferably the system enforces that change in or near real time.

As noted above preferably each sub campaign that is running has some combination of enterprise and account rules in affect required rules plus any additional rules that are chosen . Just prior to each contact attempt these rules are executed against the contact and device preferably in the following order when both location and contact attempt rules are configured enterprise location rules highest to lowest account location rules highest to lowest enterprise attempt rules highest to lowest and account attempt rules highest to lowest . Other sequences may be used. When a rule is triggered suppression is carried out. Preferably and for a given attempt once a rule is triggered no further rules in the applicable rule set are or needs to be evaluated.

If escalation is being used in the sub campaign then Device type suppression allows the escalation of that contact to continue on to the next device for contact based escalation or contact pass for contact pass escalation . On the other hand if an attempt is suppressed by a Contact type rule the entire contact is suppressed and no further escalation of that contact will occur in the sub campaign.

Contact attempt rules preferably have the following properties and characteristics. Rules are imported via import of XML. Rule s are downloaded in XML format. If a rule name with same name already exists the old rule is deleted and the new rule is created with the same name. A warning is generated to the user that existing rule will be replaced. Rules can be modified dynamically. If a rule is modified when a sub campaign is running a warning is generated that modification of the rule will affect running sub campaigns. Non mandatory rules are available for selection on Campaign and SubCampaign. Mandatory rules by default selected for Campaign and SubCampaign and preferably cannot be modified. Non mandatory rules selected for Campaign are carried over to SubCampaign and can be overridden on SubCampaign. Preferably attributes of Contact Attempt Rule are type ClientId Device level Enterprise Account required numberOfAttempts numberOfDays postalCode areaCode stateCode completionStatus countryCodeOfContact countryCodeOfDevice timeZoneOfContact and timeZoneOfDevice. Valid fields of type ClientId are level required numberOfAttempts numberOfDays postalCode stateCode completionStatus countryCodeOfContact and timeZoneOfContact. Valid fields of type Device are level required numberOfAttempts numberOfDays areaCode stateCode completionStatus countryCodeOfDevice and timeZoneOfDevice. If there is more than one postalCode areaCode stateCode completionStatus in a rule a separate name value pair is created.

Without intending to be limiting preferably contact attempt rules look back over a given time period e.g. up to 30 days. As used herein the Compliance Manager should be broadly construed to refer to machines devices processes applications utilities software interfaces display interfaces configuration files data structures and data that facilitate one or more of the above described functions and features.

The techniques described herein provide many advantages. The approach enables platform customers to manage compliance as new demands are imposed from various regulatory agencies such as the FCC FTC and CFPB in the United States Ofcom and OFT in the United Kingdom and CRTC in Canada among others are imposed. Using the rules based approach described above customers create strategies that enable contact center compliance resulting in improved efficiencies lower costs more outreach opportunities and greater collections success.

Other variants may also be implemented. Thus for example priority values for rules may be parameterized or conditional. There may be a predefined or configurable set of rules for different regulations. The interface may also include a mechanism to provide warnings or other notifications in the event a user attempts to modify a rule or to define a rule that conflicts with a predefined rule or the like. When multiple rules apply the system may include a mechanism to resolve any rule conflicts and or to alter the rule execution appropriately to address any such conflict. Typically rule priority does not affect who is suppressed although it may alter the nature of the reporting provided by the system. While the techniques herein refer to rules of exclusion that operate to provide suppression the techniques may be practiced with enabling or permissive rules namely rules that operate to enable delivery when a default operation would say otherwise.

The technique may be implemented as a computer program namely as a set of computer program instructions executed by one or more data hardware processors.

As previously noted the hardware and software systems in which the subject matter herein is illustrated are merely representative. The described functionality may be practiced typically in software on one or more machines. Generalizing a machine typically comprises commodity hardware and software storage e.g. disks disk arrays and the like and memory RAM ROM and the like . The particular machines used in the network are not a limitation. A given machine includes network interfaces and software to connect the machine to a network in the usual manner. As illustrated in the subject disclosure may be implemented as a managed service e.g. in an software as a service SaaS model using the illustrated set of machines which are connected or connectable to one or more networks. More generally the service is provided by an operator using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions or the like that together facilitate or provide the inventive functionality described above. In a typical implementation the service comprises a set of one or more computers. A representative machine is a network based server running commodity e.g. Intel based hardware an operating system e.g. Linux Windows OS X Android or the like an application runtime environment e.g. Java .ASP and a set of applications or processes e.g. Java applets or servlets linkable libraries native code or the like depending on platform that provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. As described the service may be implemented in a standalone server or across a distributed set of machines. Typically a server connects to the publicly routable Internet a corporate intranet a private network or any combination thereof depending on the desired implementation environment.

While the above describes a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments of the invention it should be understood that such order is exemplary as alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations or the like. References in the specification to a given embodiment indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic.

While given components of the system have been described separately one of ordinary skill will appreciate that some of the functions may be combined or shared in given instructions program sequences code portions and the like.

Preferably the functionality is implemented in an application layer solution although this is not a limitation. The functionality may be implemented with application layer protocols such HTTP and HTTPS or any other protocol having similar operating characteristics.

