---

title: Authenticated session establishment
abstract: Methods, devices, and machine-readable media are provided to provide secure communications between entities. As provided in this disclosure, this may include receiving a request to begin a new communication session, determining one or more desired parameters of the session, and determining whether the desired parameters of the message match proposed parameters provided by the entity requesting the new communication session. When the one or more proposed parameters match the one or more desired parameters, a secure communication session is established between the entities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462624&OS=09462624&RS=09462624
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09462624
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150203
---
This application is a Continuation Application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 508 933 entitled Authenticated Session Establishment filed Oct. 7 2014 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

This disclosure relates to systems devices methods and related computer program products for smart buildings including the smart home. More particularly this patent specification relates to establishing communications between two nodes of smart networks.

This section is intended to introduce the reader to various aspects of art that may be related to various aspects of the present techniques which are described and or claimed below. This discussion is believed to be helpful in providing the reader with background information to facilitate a better understanding of the various aspects of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be understood that these statements are to be read in this light and not as admissions of prior art.

Numerous electronic devices are now capable of connecting to local as well as wide area networks. As the number of electronic devices on these networks increase the amount of sensitive data and or sensitive interactions between these electronic devices and data on the networks may increase. As such increased security may be desired regarding communications to from the electronic devices.

A summary of certain embodiments disclosed herein is set forth below. It should be understood that these aspects are presented merely to provide the reader with a brief summary of these certain embodiments and that these aspects are not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure. Indeed this disclosure may encompass a variety of aspects that may not be set forth below.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide methods and systems for establishing secure communications to and or from devices on a smart mesh network. The embodiments include establishing an encrypted communication session using an encryption key derived from a session request using a public key and private key combination.

When a request to begin a session is received by a responder within the network the request is validated by the responder. Once validated a response is provided that enables the initiator to derive an encryption key for subsequent communications between the initiator and the responder.

In some embodiments the request and or response may include a proposal of particular encryption algorithms and or elliptical curves to use in the encryption. To prevent downgrade attacks e.g. a man in the middle who persuades the initiator and or responder to downgrade a proposed protocol or protocol configuration e.g. defining a key size key generation algorithm etc. the session request message may include a proposed protocol protocol configuration a list of usable protocols protocol configurations of the initiator a proposed elliptic curve and alternative elliptic curves that may be used by the initiator. The responder may confirm that a prioritized protocol and elliptic curve are used based upon the list of available protocols and curves. Accordingly if a man in the middle attempts to downgrade to a simpler protocol or elliptic curve the responder may deny the connection instead requesting a reconfiguration using the best common protocol and or common elliptic curve between the initiator and the responder.

One or more specific embodiments of the present disclosure will be described below. These described embodiments are only examples of the presently disclosed techniques. Additionally in an effort to provide a concise description of these embodiments all features of an actual implementation may not be described in the specification. It should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation as in any engineering or design project numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it should be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but may nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design fabrication and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this disclosure.

When introducing elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure the articles a an and the are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements. Additionally it should be understood that references to one embodiment or an embodiment of the present disclosure are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features.

It should be appreciated that smart home environments may refer to smart environments or smart networks for any building type such as single family houses duplexes townhomes multi unit apartment buildings hotels retail stores office buildings industrial buildings and any building that may include one or more smart devices.

It is to be further appreciated that while the terms user customer installer homeowner occupant guest tenant landlord repair person user and similar terms may be used to refer to a person or persons interacting with a smart device within the network via a user interface these references are by no means to be considered as limiting the scope of the present teachings with respect to the person or persons who are performing such actions. Thus for example the terms user customer purchaser installer subscriber and homeowner may often refer to the same person in the case of a single family residential dwelling because the head of the household is often the person who makes the purchasing decision buys the unit and installs and configures the units and is also one of the users of the units. However in other scenarios such as a landlord tenant environment the customer may be the landlord with respect to purchasing the unit the installer may be a local apartment supervisor a first user may be the tenant and a second user may again be the landlord with respect to remote control functionality. While the identity of the person performing the action may be germane to a particular advantage provided by one or more of the embodiments for example the password protected network commissioning functionality described herein may be particularly advantageous where the landlord holds the sole password and can control network additions such identity should not be construed in the descriptions that follow as necessarily limiting the scope of the present teachings to those particular individuals having those particular identities.

With the foregoing in mind illustrates an example of a smart home environment also referred to as a smart network within which one or more of the devices methods systems services and or computer program products described further herein can be applicable. The depicted smart home environment includes a structure which can include e.g. a house office building garage or mobile home. In some embodiments the devices can also be integrated into a smart home environment that does not include an entire structure such as an apartment condominium or office space. Further the smart home environment can control and or be coupled to devices outside of the actual structure . Indeed several devices in the smart home environment need not physically be within the structure at all. For example a device controlling a pool heater or irrigation system can be located outside of the structure .

The depicted structure includes multiple rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of includes various devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that may integrate seamlessly with each other with a central server with a cloud computing system or some combination of these to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives. The smart home environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats hereinafter referred to as smart thermostats one or more intelligent network connected multi sensing hazard detection units hereinafter referred to as smart hazard detectors one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected doorbell devices hereinafter referred to as smart doorbells and one or more intelligent network connected door locks hereinafter referred to as smart door locks . According to embodiments the smart thermostat detects ambient climate characteristics e.g. temperature and or humidity and controls a HVAC system accordingly. The smart hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous substance or a substance indicative of a hazardous substance e.g. smoke fire or carbon monoxide . The smart doorbell may detect a person s approach to or departure from a location e.g. an outer door control doorbell functionality announce a person s approach or departure via audio or visual means or control settings on a security system e.g. to activate or deactivate the security system when occupants go and come . The smart door locks may detect and toggle between a locked and unlocked condition for doors in the home detect a person s approach to or departure from a respective door detect whether a door is open or closed or other suitable controls associated with a smart door lock.

In some embodiments the smart home environment of further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches hereinafter referred to as smart wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces hereinafter referred to as smart wall plugs . The smart wall switches may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states and control a power and or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances smart wall switches may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. The smart wall plugs may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs e.g. such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home .

Further in some embodiments the smart home environment of includes multiple intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances hereinafter referred to as smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems window sensors security systems and so forth. According to embodiments the network connected appliances may be made compatible with the smart home environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window AC units motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in an appliance can announce itself to the smart home network such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication by the appliance to the smart home can be facilitated by any wired or wireless communication protocols known by those having ordinary skill in the art. The smart home also can include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled albeit coarsely ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plugs . The smart home environment can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances such as infrared IR controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the smart hazard detectors or the smart wall switches .

According to embodiments the smart thermostats the smart hazard detectors the smart doorbells the smart door lock the smart wall switches the smart wall plugs and other devices of the smart home environment may be modular and may be incorporated into older and new houses. For example in some embodiments the devices are designed around a modular platform consisting of two basic components a head unit and a back plate also referred to as a docking station. Multiple configurations of the docking station are provided so as to be compatible with any home such as older and newer homes. However all of the docking stations include a standard head connection arrangement such that any head unit can be removably attached to any docking station. Thus in some embodiments the docking stations are interfaces that serve as physical connections to the structure and the voltage wiring of the homes and the interchangeable head units contain all of the sensors processors user interfaces the batteries and other functional components of the devices.

Many different commercial and functional possibilities for provisioning maintenance and upgrade are possible. For example after years of using any particular head unit a user may be able to buy a new version of the head unit and simply plug it into the old docking station. There are also many different versions for the head units such as low cost versions with few features and then a progression of increasingly capable versions up to and including sophisticated head units with a large number of features. Thus it should be appreciated that the various versions of the head units may be interchangeable with any of them working when placed into any docking station. This can advantageously encourage sharing and re deployment of old head units for example when an important high capability head unit such as a hazard detector is replaced by a new version of the head unit then the old head unit can be re deployed to a backroom or basement etc. According to embodiments when first plugged into a docking station the head unit can ask the user by 2D LCD display 2D 3D holographic projection voice interaction etc. a few simple questions such as Where am I and the user can indicate living room kitchen and so forth.

The smart home environment may also include communication with devices outside of the physical home but within a proximate geographical range of the home. For example the smart home environment may include a pool heater monitor that communicates a current pool temperature to other devices within the smart home environment or receives commands for controlling the pool temperature. Similarly the smart home environment may include an irrigation monitor that communicates information regarding irrigation systems within the smart home environment and or receives control information for controlling such irrigation systems. According to embodiments an algorithm is provided for considering the geographic location of the smart home environment such as based on the zip code or geographic coordinates of the home. The geographic information then may be used to obtain data helpful for determining optimal times for watering. Such data may include sun location information temperature dew point soil type of the land on which the home is located etc.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of can also enable a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet or other portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone . A webpage or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control the smart thermostat and other smart devices in the smart home environment using a network connected computer or portable electronic device . In some embodiments the device may be connected to the smart network directly or through additional networks e.g. WiFi that are connected to the smart network using one or more devices e.g. an edge router . In some examples some or all of the occupants e.g. individuals who live in the home can register their device with the smart home environment . Such registration can be made at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. An occupant may use their registered device to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation. The occupant may also use their registered device to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant is sitting on a couch inside the home. It should be appreciated that instead of or in addition to registering devices the smart home environment may make inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which devices are associated with those individuals. As such the smart home environment learns who is an occupant and permits the devices associated with those individuals to control the smart devices of the home.

In some instances guests desire to control the smart devices. For example the smart home environment may receive communication from an unregistered mobile device of an individual inside of the home where said individual is not recognized as an occupant of the home. For example a smart home environment may receive communication from a mobile device of an individual who is known to be or who is registered as a guest or determined to be on a common network e.g. SSID WiFi network as the smart devices.

In some embodiments in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities each of the devices and other smart devices collectively referred to as the smart devices may be capable of data communications and information sharing with any other of the smart devices as well as to any central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The required data communications can be carried out using any of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. .

According to embodiments all or some of the smart devices can serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart device via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet . Through the Internet the smart devices can communicate with a central server or a cloud computing system . The central server or cloud computing system can be associated with a manufacturer support entity or service provider associated with the device. For some embodiments a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates can be automatically sent from the central server or cloud computing system to the smart devices e.g. when available when purchased or at routine intervals .

As discussed below the smart devices may be combined to create a mesh network. In some embodiments this mesh network may include spokesman and low power nodes in the smart home environment where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Some of the smart devices in the smart home environment are battery powered while others have a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to wiring e.g. to 120V line voltage wires behind the walls of the smart home environment. The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source are referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the smart home environment as well as with the central server or cloud computing system . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered are referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and may only communicate using wireless protocols that requires very little power such as ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. Further some but not all low power nodes are incapable of bidirectional communication. These low power nodes send messages but they are unable to listen . Thus other devices in the smart home environment such as the spokesman nodes cannot send information to these low power listening only nodes.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the smart home environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment regularly send out messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to travel from node to node i.e. device to device throughout the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes in the smart home environment are able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or the central server or cloud computing system . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols are able to send messages across the entire smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system . According to embodiments the mesh network enables the central server or cloud computing system to regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to one of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives described herein.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening . Accordingly users other devices and the central server or cloud computing system can communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user can use the portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone to send commands over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system which then relays the commands to the spokesman nodes in the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the smart home environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the central server or cloud computing system .

An example of a low power node is a smart nightlight . In addition to housing a light source the smart nightlight houses an occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic or passive IR sensor and an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. In some embodiments the smart nightlight is configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark and when its occupancy sensor detects that someone is in the room. In other embodiments the smart nightlight is simply configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark. Further according to some embodiments the smart nightlight includes a low power wireless communication chip e.g. ZigBee chip that regularly sends out messages regarding the occupancy of the room and the amount of light in the room including instantaneous messages coincident with the occupancy sensor detecting the presence of a person in the room. As mentioned above these messages may be sent wirelessly using the mesh network from node to node i.e. smart device to smart device within the smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system .

Other examples of low powered nodes include battery operated versions of the smart hazard detectors . These smart hazard detectors are often located in an area without access to constant and reliable power and as discussed in detail below may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore smart hazard detectors can send messages that correspond to each of the respective sensors to the other devices and the central server or cloud computing system such as by using the mesh network as described above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart doorbells smart thermostats smart wall switches and smart wall plugs . These devices and are often located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore can include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols.

In some embodiments these low powered and spokesman nodes e.g. devices and may function as tripwires for an alarm system in the smart home environment. For example in the event a perpetrator circumvents detection by alarm sensors located at windows doors and other entry points of the smart home environment the alarm could be triggered upon receiving an occupancy motion heat sound etc. message from one or more of the low powered and spokesman nodes in the mesh network. For example upon receiving a message from a smart nightlight indicating the presence of a person the central server or cloud computing system or some other device could trigger an alarm provided the alarm is armed at the time of detection. Thus the alarm system could be enhanced by various low powered and spokesman nodes located throughout the smart home environment . In this example a user could enhance the security of the smart home environment by buying and installing extra smart nightlights .

In some embodiments the mesh network can be used to automatically turn on and off lights as a person transitions from room to room. For example the low powered and spokesman nodes e.g. devices and detect the person s movement through the smart home environment and communicate corresponding messages through the mesh network. Using the messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall switches to automatically provide light as the person moves from room to room in the smart home environment . Further users may provide pre configuration information that indicates which smart wall plugs provide power to lamps and other light sources such as the smart nightlight . Alternatively this mapping of light sources to wall plugs can be done automatically e.g. the smart wall plugs detect when a light source is plugged into it and it sends a corresponding message to the central server or cloud computing system . Using this mapping information in combination with messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall plugs that provide power to lamps and other light sources so as to track the person s movement and provide light as the person moves from room to room.

In some embodiments the mesh network of low powered and spokesman nodes can be used to provide exit lighting in the event of an emergency or an emergency drill. In some instances to facilitate this users provide pre configuration information that indicates exit routes in the smart home environment . For example for each room in the house the user may provide a map of the best exit route depending on availability of the route. In some situations the route may be blocked by a hazard and an alternate route may be illuminated and indicated if available. It should be appreciated that instead of a user providing this information the central server or cloud computing system or some other device could automatically determine the routes using uploaded maps diagrams architectural drawings of the smart home house as well as using a map generated based on positional information obtained from the nodes of the mesh network e.g. positional information from the devices is used to construct a map of the house . In operation when an alarm is activated e.g. when one or more of the smart hazard detector detects smoke and activates an alarm the central server or cloud computing system or some other device uses occupancy information obtained from the low powered and spokesman nodes to determine which rooms are occupied and then turns on lights e.g. nightlights wall switches wall plugs that power lamps etc. along the exit routes from the occupied rooms so as to provide emergency exit lighting.

Also included and illustrated in the smart home environment of are service robots each configured to carry out in an autonomous manner any of a variety of household tasks. For some embodiments the service robots can be respectively configured to perform floor sweeping floor washing etc. in a manner similar to that of known commercially available devices such as the ROOMBA and SCOOBA products sold by iRobot Inc. of Bedford Mass. Tasks such as floor sweeping and floor washing can be considered as away or while away tasks for purposes of the instant description as it is generally more desirable for these tasks to be performed when the occupants are not present. For other embodiments one or more of the service robots are configured to perform tasks such as playing music for an occupant serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant serving as a localized baby monitor serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant and so forth it being generally more desirable for such tasks to be carried out in the immediate presence of the human occupant. For purposes of the instant description such tasks can be considered as human facing or human centric tasks.

When serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant a particular one of the service robots can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal comfort area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the occupant s immediate space at a comfortable temperature wherever that occupant may be located in the home. This can be contrasted with conventional wall mounted room thermostats which have the more attenuated objective of keeping a statically defined structural space at a comfortable temperature. According to one embodiment the localized thermostat service robot is configured to move itself into the immediate presence e.g. within five feet of a particular occupant who has settled into a particular location in the home e.g. in the dining room to eat their breakfast and read the news . The localized thermostat service robot includes a temperature sensor a processor and wireless communication components configured such that control communications with the HVAC system either directly or through a wall mounted wirelessly communicating thermostat coupled to the HVAC system are maintained and such that the temperature in the immediate vicinity of the occupant is maintained at their desired level. If the occupant then moves and settles into another location e.g. to the living room couch to watch television the localized thermostat service robot proceeds to move and park itself next to the couch and keep that particular immediate space at a comfortable temperature.

Technologies by which the localized thermostat service robot and or the larger smart home system of can identify and locate the occupant whose personal area space is to be kept at a comfortable temperature can include but are not limited to RFID sensing e.g. person having an RFID bracelet RFID necklace or RFID key fob synthetic vision techniques e.g. video cameras and face recognition processors audio techniques e.g. voice sound pattern vibration pattern recognition ultrasound sensing imaging techniques and infrared or near field communication NFC techniques e.g. person wearing an infrared or NFC capable smartphone along with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence techniques that draw useful conclusions from the sensed information e.g. if there is only a single occupant present in the home then that is the person whose immediate space should be kept at a comfortable temperature and the selection of the desired comfortable temperature should correspond to that occupant s particular stored profile .

When serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal health area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the air quality in the occupant s immediate space at healthy levels. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith other health related functions can be provided such as monitoring the temperature or heart rate of the occupant e.g. using finely remote sensors near field communication with on person monitors etc. . When serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal safety area network for the occupant with the objective being to ensure there is no excessive carbon monoxide smoke fire etc. in the immediate space of the occupant. Methods analogous to those described above for personal comfort area networks in terms of occupant identifying and tracking are likewise applicable for personal health area network and personal safety area network embodiments.

According to some embodiments the above referenced facilitation of personal comfort area networks personal health area networks personal safety area networks and or other such human facing functionalities of the service robots are further enhanced by logical integration with other smart sensors in the home according to rules based inferencing techniques or artificial intelligence techniques for achieving better performance of those human facing functionalities and or for achieving those goals in energy conserving or other resource conserving ways. Thus for one embodiment relating to personal health area networks the air monitor purifier service robot can be configured to detect whether a household pet is moving toward the currently settled location of the occupant e.g. using on board sensors and or by data communications with other smart home sensors along with rules based inferencing artificial intelligence techniques and if so the air purifying rate is immediately increased in preparation for the arrival of more airborne pet dander. For another embodiment relating to personal safety area networks the hazard detector service robot can be advised by other smart home sensors that the temperature and humidity levels are rising in the kitchen which is nearby to the occupant s current dining room location and responsive to this advisory the hazard detector service robot will temporarily raise a hazard detection threshold such as a smoke detection threshold under an inference that any small increases in ambient smoke levels will most likely be due to cooking activity and not due to a genuinely hazardous condition.

The above described human facing and away functionalities can be provided without limitation by multiple distinct service robots having respective dedicated ones of such functionalities by a single service robot having an integration of two or more different ones of such functionalities and or any combinations thereof including the ability for a single service robot to have both away and human facing functionalities without departing from the scope of the present teachings. Electrical power can be provided by virtue of rechargeable batteries or other rechargeable methods with illustrating an exemplary out of the way docking station to which the service robots will automatically dock and recharge its batteries if needed during periods of inactivity. Preferably each service robot includes wireless communication components that facilitate data communications with one or more of the other wirelessly communicating smart home sensors of and or with one or more other service robots e.g. using Wi Fi ZigBee Z Wave 6LoWPAN etc. and one or more of the smart home devices of can be in communication with a remote server over the Internet. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith each service robot can be configured to communicate directly with a remote server by virtue of cellular telephone communications satellite communications 3G 4G network data communications or other direct communication method.

Provided according to some embodiments are systems and methods relating to the integration of the service robot s with home security sensors and related functionalities of the smart home system. The embodiments are particularly applicable and advantageous when applied for those service robots that perform away functionalities or that otherwise are desirable to be active when the home is unoccupied hereinafter away service robots . Included in the embodiments are methods and systems for ensuring that home security systems intrusion detection systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental control systems for example occupancy sensitive automated setback thermostats that enter into a lower energy using condition when the home is unoccupied are not erroneously triggered by the away service robots.

Provided according to one embodiment is a home automation and security system e.g. as shown in that is remotely monitored by a monitoring service by virtue of automated systems e.g. cloud based servers or other central servers hereinafter central server that are in data communications with one or more network connected elements of the home automation and security system. The away service robots are configured to be in operative data communication with the central server and are configured such that they remain in a non away service state e.g. a dormant state at their docking station unless permission is granted from the central server e.g. by virtue of an away service OK message from the central server to commence their away service activities. An away state determination made by the system which can be arrived at i exclusively by local on premises smart device s based on occupancy sensor data ii exclusively by the central server based on received occupancy sensor data and or based on received proximity related information such as GPS coordinates from user smartphones or automobiles or iii any combination of i and ii can then trigger the granting of away service permission to the away service robots by the central server. During the course of the away service robot activity during which the away service robots may continuously detect and send their in home location coordinates to the central server the central server can readily filter signals from the occupancy sensing devices to distinguish between the away service robot activity versus any unexpected intrusion activity thereby avoiding a false intrusion alarm condition while also ensuring that the home is secure. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith the central server may provide filtering data such as an expected occupancy sensing profile triggered by the away service robots to the occupancy sensing nodes or associated processing nodes of the smart home such that the filtering is performed at the local level. Although somewhat less secure it would also be within the scope of the present teachings for the central server to temporarily disable the occupancy sensing equipment for the duration of the away service robot activity.

According to another embodiment functionality similar to that of the central server in the above example can be performed by an on site computing device such as a dedicated server computer a master home automation console or panel or as an adjunct function of one or more of the smart home devices of . In such an embodiment there would be no dependency on a remote service provider to provide the away service OK permission to the away service robots and the false alarm avoidance filtering service or filter information for the sensed intrusion detection signals.

According to other embodiments there are provided methods and systems for implementing away service robot functionality while avoiding false home security alarms and false occupancy sensitive environmental controls without the requirement of a single overall event orchestrator. For purposes of the simplicity in the present disclosure the home security systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental controls that would be triggered by the motion noise vibrations or other disturbances of the away service robot activity are referenced simply as activity sensing systems and when so triggered will yield a disturbance detected outcome representative of the false trigger for example an alarm message to a security service or an arrival determination for an automated setback thermostat that causes the home to be heated or cooled to a more comfortable occupied setpoint temperature . According to one embodiment the away service robots are configured to emit a standard ultrasonic sound throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard ultrasonic sound and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard ultrasonic sound is detected. For other embodiments the away service robots are configured to emit a standard notification signal throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard notification signal and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard notification signal is detected wherein the standard notification signal comprises one or more of an optical notifying signal an audible notifying signal an infrared notifying signal an infrasonic notifying signal a wirelessly transmitted data notification signal e.g. an IP broadcast multicast or unicast notification signal or a notification message sent in an TCP IP two way communication session .

According to some embodiments the notification signals sent by the away service robots to the activity sensing systems are authenticated and encrypted such that the notifications cannot be learned and replicated by a potential burglar. Any of a variety of known encryption authentication schemes can be used to ensure such data security including but not limited to methods involving third party data security services or certificate authorities. For some embodiments a permission request response model can be used wherein any particular away service robot requests permission from each activity sensing system in the home when it is ready to perform its away service tasks and does not initiate such activity until receiving a yes or permission granted message from each activity sensing system or from a single activity sensing system serving as a spokesman for all of the activity sensing systems . One advantage of the described embodiments that do not require a central event orchestrator is that there can optionally be more of an arms length relationship between the supplier s of the home security environmental control equipment on the one hand and the supplier s of the away service robot s on the other hand as it is only required that there is the described standard one way notification protocol or the described standard two way request permission protocol to be agreed upon by the respective suppliers.

According to still other embodiments the activity sensing systems are configured to detect sounds vibrations RF emissions or other detectable environmental signals or signatures that are intrinsically associated with the away service activity of each away service robot and are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that particular detectable signal or environmental signature is detected. By way of example a particular kind of vacuum cleaning away service robot may emit a specific sound or RF signature. For one embodiment the away service environmental signatures for each of multiple known away service robots are stored in the memory of the activity sensing systems based on empirically collected data the environmental signatures being supplied with the activity sensing systems and periodically updated by a remote update server. For another embodiment the activity sensing systems can be placed into a training mode for the particular home in which they are installed wherein they listen and learn the particular environmental signatures of the away service robots for that home during that training session and thereafter will suppress disturbance detected outcomes for intervals in which those environmental signatures are heard.

For still another embodiment which is particularly useful when the activity sensing system is associated with occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment rather than a home security system the activity sensing system is configured to automatically learn the environmental signatures for the away service robots by virtue of automatically performing correlations over time between detected environmental signatures and detected occupancy activity. By way of example for one embodiment an intelligent automated nonoccupancy triggered setback thermostat such as the Nest Learning Thermostat can be configured to constantly monitor for audible and RF activity as well as to perform infrared based occupancy detection. In particular view of the fact that the environmental signature of the away service robot will remain relatively constant from event to event and in view of the fact that the away service events will likely either a themselves be triggered by some sort of nonoccupancy condition as measured by the away service robots themselves or b occur at regular times of day there will be patterns in the collected data by which the events themselves will become apparent and for which the environmental signatures can be readily learned. Generally speaking for this automatic learning embodiment in which the environmental signatures of the away service robots are automatically learned without requiring user interaction it is more preferable that a certain number of false triggers be tolerable over the course of the learning process. Accordingly this automatic learning embodiment is more preferable for application in occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment such as an automated setback thermostat rather than home security systems for the reason that a few false occupancy determinations may cause a few instances of unnecessary heating or cooling but will not otherwise have any serious consequences whereas false home security alarms may have more serious consequences.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices located in the mesh network of the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system are used to provide a personal smart alarm clock for individual occupants of the home. For example user occupants can communicate with the central server or cloud computing system via their mobile devices to access an interface for the smart alarm clock. There occupants can turn on their smart alarm clock and input a wake time for the next day and or for additional days. In some embodiments the occupant may have the option of setting a specific wake time for each day of the week as well as the option of setting some or all of the inputted wake times to repeat . Artificial intelligence will be used to consider the occupant s response to these alarms when they go off and make inferences about the user s preferred sleep patterns over time.

According to embodiments the smart device in the smart home environment that happens to be closest to the occupant when the occupant falls asleep will be the device that transmits messages regarding when the occupant stopped moving from which the central server or cloud computing system will make inferences about where and when the occupant prefers to sleep. This closest smart device will as be the device that sounds the alarm to wake the occupant. In this manner the smart alarm clock will follow the occupant throughout the house by tracking the individual occupants based on their unique signature which is determined based on data obtained from sensors located in the smart devices. For example the sensors include ultrasonic sensors passive IR sensors and the like. The unique signature is based on a combination of walking gait patterns of movement voice height size etc. It should be appreciated that facial recognition may also be used.

According to an embodiment the wake times associated with the smart alarm clock are used by the smart thermostat to control the HVAC in an efficient manner so as to pre heat or cool the house to the occupant s desired sleeping and awake temperature settings. The preferred settings can be learned over time such as by observing which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to before going to sleep and which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to upon waking up.

According to an embodiment a device is positioned proximate to the occupant s bed such as on an adjacent nightstand and collects data as the occupant sleeps using noise sensors motion sensors e.g. ultrasonic IR and optical etc. Data may be obtained by the other smart devices in the room as well. Such data may include the occupant s breathing patterns heart rate movement etc. Inferences are made based on this data in combination with data that indicates when the occupant actually wakes up. For example if on a regular basis the occupant s heart rate breathing and moving all increase by 5 to 10 twenty to thirty minutes before the occupant wakes up each morning then predictions can be made regarding when the occupant is going to wake. Other devices in the home can use these predictions to provide other smart home objectives such as adjusting the smart thermostat so as to pre heat or cool the home to the occupant s desired setting before the occupant wakes up. Further these predictions can be used to set the smart alarm clock for the occupant to turn on lights etc.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices located throughout the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system are used to detect or monitor the progress of Alzheimer s disease. For example the unique signatures of the occupants are used to track the individual occupants movement throughout the smart home environment . This data can be aggregated and analyzed to identify patterns indicative of Alzheimer s. Oftentimes individuals with Alzheimer s have distinctive patterns of migration in their homes. For example a person will walk to the kitchen and stand there for a while then to the living room and stand there for a while and then back to the kitchen. This pattern will take about thirty minutes and then the person will repeat the pattern. According to embodiments the remote servers or cloud computing architectures analyze the person s migration data collected by the mesh network of the smart home environment to identify such patterns.

Although in some examples provided herein the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from the smart devices of smart home environment of it should be appreciated that the devices and services platform may communicate with and collect data from multiple smart home environments across the world. For example the central server or cloud computing system can collect home data from the devices of one or more smart home environments where the devices can routinely transmit home data or can transmit home data in specific instances e.g. when a device queries the home data . Thus the devices and services platform may routinely collect data from homes across the world. As described the collected home data includes for example power consumption data occupancy data HVAC settings and usage data carbon monoxide levels data carbon dioxide levels data volatile organic compounds levels data sleeping schedule data cooking schedule data inside and outside temperature humidity data television viewership data inside and outside noise level data etc.

The central server or cloud computing architecture can further provide one or more services . The services can include e.g. software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . Data associated with the services can be stored at the central server or cloud computing system and the central server or the cloud computing system can retrieve and transmit the data at an appropriate time e.g. at regular intervals upon receiving a request from a user etc. .

As illustrated in an embodiment of the extensible devices and services platform includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. The processing engine can include engines configured to receive data from devices of smart home environments e.g. via the Internet or a hubbed network to index the data to analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived home data .

Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings can be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines.

The derived data can be highly beneficial at a variety of different granularities for a variety of useful purposes ranging from explicit programmed control of the devices on a per home per neighborhood or per region basis for example demand response programs for electrical utilities to the generation of inferential abstractions that can assist on a per home basis for example an inference can be drawn that the homeowner has left for vacation and so security detection equipment can be put on heightened sensitivity to the generation of statistics and associated inferential abstractions that can be used for government or charitable purposes. For example processing engine can generate statistics about device usage across a population of devices and send the statistics to device users service providers or other entities e.g. that have requested or may have provided monetary compensation for the statistics .

According to some embodiments the home data the derived home data and or another data can be used to create automated neighborhood safety networks. For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture receives data indicating that a particular home has been broken into is experiencing a fire or some other type of emergency event an alarm is sent to other smart homes in the neighborhood. In some instances the central server or cloud computing architecture automatically identifies smart homes within a radius of the home experiencing the emergency and sends an alarm to the identified homes. In such instances the other homes in the neighborhood do not have to sign up for or register to be a part of a safety network but instead are notified of an emergency based on their proximity to the location of the emergency. This creates robust and evolving neighborhood security watch networks such that if one person s home is getting broken into an alarm can be sent to nearby homes such as by audio announcements via the smart devices located in those homes. Additionally or alternatively if a neighbor s hazard detector detect smoke neighboring houses may activate irrigation systems to reduce likelihood of a spread of fire. It should be appreciated that this safety network can be an opt in service and that in addition to or instead of the central server or cloud computing architecture selecting which homes to send alerts to individuals can subscribe to participate in such networks and individuals can specify which homes they want to receive alerts from. This can include for example the homes of family members who live in different cities such that individuals can receive alerts when their loved ones in other locations are experiencing an emergency.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by running water. Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about water usage in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what water sounds like and when it is running in the home. According to one embodiment to map the various water sources of the home upon detecting running water the central server or cloud computing architecture sends a message an occupant s mobile device asking if water is currently running or if water has been recently run in the home and if so which room and which water consumption appliance e.g. sink shower toilet etc. was the source of the water. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to determine the signature or fingerprint of each water source in the home. This is sometimes referred to herein as audio fingerprinting water usage. 

In one illustrative example the central server or cloud computing architecture creates a signature for the toilet in the master bathroom and whenever that toilet is flushed the central server or cloud computing architecture will know that the water usage at that time is associated with that toilet. Thus the central server or cloud computing architecture can track the water usage of that toilet as well as each water consumption application in the home. This information can be correlated to water bills or smart water meters so as to provide users with a breakdown of their water usage.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by mice and other rodents as well as by termites cockroaches and other insects collectively referred to as pests . Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about pest detection in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what certain pests sound like how they move and or the vibration they create individually and or collectively. According to one embodiment the central server or cloud computing architecture can determine the signatures of particular types of pests.

For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture detects sounds that may be associated with pests it notifies the occupants of such sounds and suggests hiring a pest control company. If it is confirmed that pests are indeed present the occupants input to the central server or cloud computing architecture confirms that its detection was correct along with details regarding the identified pests such as name type description location quantity etc. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to tune itself for better detection and create signatures or fingerprints for specific types of pests. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can use the tuning as well as the signatures and fingerprints to detect pests in other homes such as nearby homes that may be experiencing problems with the same pests. Further for example in the event that two or more homes in a neighborhood are experiencing problems with the same or similar types of pests the central server or cloud computing architecture can make inferences that nearby homes may also have such problems or may be susceptible to having such problems and it can send warning messages to those homes to help facilitate early detection and prevention.

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the devices and services platform expose a range of application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs may be coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with the central server or the cloud computing system including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example APIs may allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by the central server or the cloud computing system as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

For example third parties can develop programs and or applications such as web or mobile apps that integrate with the central server or the cloud computing system to provide services and information to users. Such programs and application may be for example designed to help users reduce energy consumption to preemptively service faulty equipment to prepare for high service demands to track past service performance etc. or to perform any of a variety of beneficial functions or tasks now known or hereinafter developed.

According to some embodiments third party applications make inferences from the home data and the derived home data such inferences may include when are occupants home when are they sleeping when are they cooking when are they in the den watching television and when do they shower. The answers to these questions may help third parties benefit consumers by providing them with interesting information products and services as well as with providing them with targeted advertisements.

In one example a shipping company creates an application that makes inferences regarding when people are at home. The application uses the inferences to schedule deliveries for times when people will most likely be at home. The application can also build delivery routes around these scheduled times. This reduces the number of instances where the shipping company has to make multiple attempts to deliver packages and it reduces the number of times consumers have to pick up their packages from the shipping company.

For example shows processing engine as including a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that e.g. and responding to an instance in which an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a light bulb having burned out implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics e.g. demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform. For example a user s status as reported to their trusted contacts on the social network could be updated to indicate when they are home based on light detection security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example a user may be able to share device usage statistics with other users. In yet another example a user may share HVAC settings that result in low power bills and other users may download the HVAC settings to their smart thermostat to reduce their power bills.

The processing engine can include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely e.g. reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involve participants turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

The processing engine can integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device e.g. outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood and so forth.

An extraordinary range and variety of benefits can be brought about by and fit within the scope of the described extensible devices and services platform ranging from the ordinary to the profound. Thus in one ordinary example each bedroom of the smart home environment can be provided with a smart wall switch a smart wall plug and or smart hazard detectors all or some of which include an occupancy sensor wherein the occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring e.g. by virtue of motion detection facial recognition audible sound patterns etc. whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a fire event is sensed the remote security monitoring service or fire department is advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom and whether those occupants are still asleep or immobile or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this is of course a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible devices and services platform there can be substantially more profound examples that can truly illustrate the potential of a larger intelligence that can be made available. By way of perhaps a more profound example the same bedroom occupancy data that is being used for fire safety can also be repurposed by the processing engine in the context of a social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus for example the same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the ordinary example can be collected and made available properly anonymized for processing in which the sleep patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated for example to different nutrition programs in local schools.

Although the illustrated embodiment includes 7 routers some embodiments may include 1 2 3 4 5 or more routers. For example an embodiment with a single router and multiple devices may be conceptualized as a hub and spoke or star network. However when there are multiple routers the smart network may be more resistant to failure due to loss of connection to a single node. Furthermore in a star network the hub router may bottleneck communications through the network since all communications pass through the single router. Moreover a mesh network allows a physical extension of the network beyond a range of a single router s communication radius.

Each of the example smart devices described above with respect to may be capable of data communications and information sharing with any other device as well as to any cloud server or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. In one embodiment the smart devices may send and receive encrypted communications via the Certificate Authenticated Session Establishment CASE protocol that will be discussed below. In one embodiment a responder to a request to begin a session may restrict communications when an initiator of the request to begin the session proposes an undesirable encryption protocol or elliptic encryption curve. Accordingly downgrade attacks e.g. attempts by third parties to force downgrade to a weaker encryption protocol or elliptic curve may be thwarted as will be discussed in more detail with regard to . Further one or more key derivation functions may strengthen the encrypted communications between the initiator and the responder.

When provided by a trusted certificate authority these digital certificates may certify the identity of the holder of the certificate as trustworthy. For example a signature of the certificate e.g. initiator certificate may be used to verify that the identity and other data of the certificate have not been altered. Accordingly when the certificate is provided by a certificate authority that is trusted by the recipient of the data communications e.g. the responder the recipient may verify the identity of the certificate holder and the certificate data.

As mentioned above the initiator may desire to communicate with the responder . Accordingly the initiator may provide a begin session request . The begin session request may be used to authentic the initiator e.g. via verification of the certificate identify the initiator e.g. by provided network identification data representative of the initiator provide information for the establishment of a common encryption key between the initiator and the responder and or negotiate CASE protocol parameters in the event that the initiator and the responder implement variations options of the CASE protocol. The data used to provide these functionalities e.g. the data provided in the begin session request will be discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The responder may receive the begin session request from the initiator and validate the session request as represented by process . As will be discussed in more detail below with regard to the process may verify that the best variations options of the CASE protocol are used in the establishment of the secure communications session may verify that the begin session request is intended for the responder may authenticate the initiator and may verify the trust between the responder and the certificate authority providing the initiator certificate to the initiator .

As will be discussed in more detail below with regard to when the responder disagrees with the proposed variations options of the CASE protocol provided by the initiator in the begin session request the responder may send a reconfigure request to the initiator indicating acceptable variation options of the CASE protocol that will result in an established session.

The initiator may receive the reconfigure request and based upon the reconfigure request may provide a new begin session request that conforms to the acceptable variation options of the CASE protocol dictated in the reconfigure request .

Once the new begin session request is received by the responder the validation process is once again implemented. Upon validation the secure communications session may be initiated by implementing a master key calculation and or derivation process as will be described in more detail with regard to . Further responder may send either a failure message when a new session is unable to be established e.g. when the begin session request cannot be validated via the process or a begin session response that provides data useful for providing and or decrypting encrypted communications. Accordingly the master key calculation derivation process may be invoked by the initiator to obtain the relevant keys for decryption of messages from the responder .

In some embodiments the initiator and or the responder may request the other entity to provide a key confirmation. As will be discussed in more detail below the key confirmation ensures that both the initiator and the responder are using the same master key for decryption of encrypted messages. This is done by providing from the responder a piece of data derived from the master key. This piece of data is verified by the initiator as being derived from the master key. Further a separate piece of data derived from the master key is provided from the initiator to the responder in a key confirm message . Upon receiving the key confirm message the responder verifies the data provided in the key confirm message as being derived from the master key. Once the master key is confirmed by both the initiator and the responder or once the begin session response is received and neither the initiator or the responder requests a key confirmation the master key or a derivation of the master key may be used to interpret encrypted communications .

As may be appreciated the embodiments of the CASE protocol discussed so far may provide secure communications. By utilizing a symmetric key for the decryption of encrypted communications processing power may be reduced over other methods of decryption. Further by enabling the responder to prioritize the variations options of the CASE protocol to be agreed upon by the initiator and the responder the current embodiments reduce the possibility of downgrade attacks on the system . To further illustrate this point provides an example of a thwarted down grade attack using the CASE protocol embodiments described herein.

In the illustrated example a man in the middle intercepts the communications between the initiator and the responder and attempts to force a downgrade of protocol security. For example the downgrade may be use of a more simplistic less secure protocol and or a more simplistic elliptic curve for use in the cryptography of the session communication. By downgrading the security the man in the middle may more easily maliciously intercept interpret and or manipulate communications between the initiator and the responder .

For example the initiator may provide a begin session request that proposes the use of the strongest protocol and or strongest elliptic curve that it has available. The man in the middle may intercept the begin session request and provide its own reconfigure request dictating that the initiator use its weakest protocol and or weakest elliptic curve. Based upon this reconfigure request the initiator may provide a new begin session request that proposes use of the weakest protocol and or elliptic curve in accordance with the reconfigure request . Further because the begin session request is in line with the desires of the man in the middle the request is forwarded to the responder .

Upon receipt of the begin session request the responder may begin the validate session request process . As will be discussed in more detail below each of the begin session requests may contain a list of all available protocols and or elliptic curves that may be used by the initiator . Accordingly the validate session request may refuse establishment of a session unless the preferred protocol and or elliptic curve in common with both the initiator and responder are used.

Accordingly in the current example because the man in the middle caused a downgrade in the protocol and or elliptic curve proposal by the initiator the validate session request process may result in a reconfigure request be provided by the responder to the initiator . The reconfigure request may dictate that a session will be established using the preferred e.g. stronger protocol and or elliptic curve.

As may be appreciated the public key should be on the elliptic curve provided by the initiator . Accordingly if a new elliptic curve is necessary the initiator may generate a new public key corresponding to the dictated elliptic curve provided by the responder .

The initiator may provide an additional begin session request that proposes the protocol and or elliptic curve dictated in the reconfigure request . The validation of the session request process is re performed. Subject to validation of the begin session request the master key calculation and or derivation process may be performed. Additionally the begin session response is provided to the initiator such that the initiator may performed the master key calculation and or derivation process . From there the key confirmation may be optionally provided as discussed above.

As illustrated the current CASE protocol embodiments may reduce the number of downgrade attacks on systems that use it. Thus these embodiments provide preferred security for encrypted communications that may result in processing efficiencies and or increased security.

Having now discussed the basic handshake between the initiator and the responder the discussion turns to the data provided in the begin session request . is a schematic diagram of a session request message of the CASE protocol in accordance with an embodiment.

As previously mentioned the begin session request message includes an indication that the initiator is trustworthy. This is done by providing the initiator certificate in the begin session request. If the certificate was provided by a certificate authority trusted by the responder the responder can be assured that the holder of the certificate is trustworthy. In some instances a chain of certificate authority certificates may be provided. For example in an intermediate certificate authority provided the certificate to the initiator . If the responder does not explicitly trust the intermediate certificate authority but does trust the root certificate authority the responder may need to search the chain of certificate authority certificates for a certificate issued to the intermediate certificate authority by the root certificate authority . Any number of certificate authority certificates may be stored in the chain of certificate authority certificates . For example in instances where the certificate is trusted by the responder no chain is needed to find a trusted certificate authority. Accordingly the chain may be empty.

The begin session request may also include an identity of the initiator and the responder . As will be discussed in more detail below the responder may use the responder identity to determine whether the begin session request was intended for the responder . Further messages may be directed from the responder to the initiator using the initiator identity.

The begin session request may also include a public key . In some embodiments the public key may be an Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman public key. The public key of the initiator may be used in conjunction with a private key of the responder to derive a master key as will be discussed in more detail with regard to process of .

As mentioned above certain variations options of the CASE protocol may be proposed for use between the initiator and the responder . For example the begin session request may include a proposed protocol configuration that may indicate a particular protocol version the initiator proposes to use. Additionally the initiator may include a list of alternative protocol configurations that are available for use by the initiator . In addition to protocol configuration options the begin session request may include an elliptic curve proposal and an alternative elliptic list that provides all available elliptic curves for the initiator .

As will be discussed in more detail with regard to the responder may use the proposals and along with the lists of alternatives and to discern whether the best common variations options of the CASE protocol between the initiator and the responder are being proposed. If the best variations options of the CASE protocol are not being proposed the responder may provide a reconfigure request refusing the establishment of a session until the best common variations options of the CASE protocol are used.

The begin session request may also include a perform key confirmation indicator such as Boolean data. The perform key confirmation indicator may provide an indication of whether or not the initiator requests key confirmation between the initiator and the responder . Key confirmation is a validation that both the initiator and the responder have derived the same master key and or master key derivations for use in the encrypted communications.

Additionally to ensure that the begin session request message is not tampered with the data may be signed by a signature . In some embodiments an Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm may be used to generate the signature . Upon receipt of the request by the responder the responder may verify the data is in its original condition using the signature .

Having now discussed the particular pieces of data provided in the begin session request the discussion now turns to a more detailed look at how this data is used to establish a secure communications session. As mentioned above once the request is received by the responder the responder may validate the session request using the process . is a flowchart illustrating a process for validating a session request to establish a certificate authenticated session in accordance with an embodiment.

First a begin session request is received by the responder block . As will be discussed in more detail with regard to using the proposals and and the alternatives and the responder determines whether there are common protocols and or elliptic curves that both the initiator and the responder can use decision block . If there are no common protocols and or elliptic curves a communications failure message is provided because there are no common protocols and or encryption methods that both the initiator and the responder can use block .

The responder also determines whether the most desirable protocol and or elliptic curve is being proposed by the initiator decision block . If the best protocol and or elliptic curve is not being proposed by the initiator a reconfigure request is provided by the responder to the initiator dictating use of the best protocol and or elliptic curve block .

If however the best protocol and or elliptic curve are proposed by the initiator the responder determines whether the responder identity e.g. identity matches the identity of the responder decision block . If it does not match the identity of the responder a communication failure message is provided to the initiator because the request was not intended for the responder .

If the responder identity is correct the responder determines whether the message is signed by an entity with a private key of the provided certificate decision block . For example as mentioned above the signature may be used to verify unaltered data of the request message . Accordingly if the signature verifies that the data is unaltered the responder can be assured that the initiator s certificate that is associated with the private key is unaltered thereby authenticating the entity. If the communication is not signed by an entity with a private key of the provided certificate a communication failure message is provided to the initiator because the message cannot be authenticated block .

However if the communication is signed by an entity with a private key of the provided certificate the responder determines whether the initiator s certificate can be trusted. As mentioned above the responder may search the chain of certificate authority certificates for a certificate issued by a certificate authority that the responder trusts. If no such certificate exists a communication failure message is provided to the initiator because the initiator s certificate cannot be trusted block .

If however a certificate issued from a trusted certificate authority is found in the chain of certificate authority certificates the initiator s certificate may be trusted by the responder . Thus a session for secure communication may be established e.g. by sending a begin session response block .

Turning now to more detailed discussion of the selection and enforcement of the best common protocol and or elliptic curve between the initiator and the responder is a flowchart illustrating a process for establishing a preferred encryption protocol and or encryption curve in accordance with an embodiment. As mentioned above the responder receives proposals block and possible alternatives block from the initiator . For example the initiator provides the protocol configuration proposal along with the alternative protocol configurations available for use by the initiator and the elliptic curve proposal and list of alternative elliptic curves available for use by the initiator to the responder .

The responder determines whether the proposed protocol and or elliptic curve is the best common proposed protocol and or elliptic curve between the initiator and responder decision block . The best protocol and or elliptic curve may change depending on a desired tradeoff of one or more characteristics of the communication. For example in situations where processing power should be minimized the best protocol configuration and or elliptic curve may be a more simplistic configuration and or curve that may provide less security but requires less processing power. In situations where data integrity and privacy is a primary concern the best protocol configuration and or elliptic curve may be a more complex protocol configuration and or elliptic curve that provides increased security but may require increased processing power. In some embodiments a hybrid approach of using a more complex protocol configuration and a simpler elliptic curve or a more complex elliptic curve and a simpler protocol configuration may be used to provide a balance between processing efficiency and security.

If the best protocol configuration and or elliptic curve is not proposed the responder may send a reconfigure request dictating that the best common protocol and or elliptic curve be used block . The responder then waits to receive a new proposal block . However if the best protocol configuration and or elliptic curve is proposed the responder confirms the use of the proposed protocol configuration and or elliptic curve block . For example the responder may do this by providing a subsequent begin session response .

Having discussed the processes resulting in provision of the begin session response is a schematic diagram of the data provided in the begin session response message in accordance with an embodiment. The begin session response message includes an indication that the responder is trustworthy. This is done by providing the responder certificate in the begin session response. If the certificate was provided by a certificate authority trusted by the initiator the initiator can be assured that the holder of the certificate is trustworthy. In some instances a chain of certificate authority certificates may be provided. Thus if the initiator does not explicitly trust an intermediate certificate authority providing the responder certificate but does trust a certificate authority in the chain of certificate authority certificates the initiator may trust the certificate . Any number of certificate authority certificates may be stored in the chain of certificate authority certificates .

The begin session response may also include an identity of the initiator and the responder . The initiator may use the initiator identity to determine whether the begin session response was intended for the initiator . Further messages may be directed from the initiator to the responder using the initiator identity.

The begin session response may also include a public key . In some embodiments the public key may be an Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman public key. The public key of the responder may be used in conjunction with a private key of the initiator to derive a master key as will be discussed in more detail with regard to process of .

As mentioned above certain variations options of the CASE protocol may be proposed for use between the initiator and the responder . An agreement regarding the protocol configuration proposal and or elliptic curve is confirmed when the begin session response is provided by the responder . The begin session response includes a specification of the agreed upon protocol configuration and the elliptic curve . Accordingly the begin session response may act a conformation of the proposals provided in the begin session request .

Similar to the begin session request provided by the initiator the begin session response may also include a perform key confirmation indicator e.g. a Boolean data indicating that the responder requests key confirmation. As previously discussed key confirmation is a validation that both the initiator and the responder have derived the same master key and or master key derivations for use in the encrypted communications.

When either the initiator or the responder indicates that key confirmation is desired e.g. by indicating 1 or true for the Boolean perform key confirmation indicator and or respectively a key confirmation hash e.g. a double hash of a master key derivation may be provided by the responder via the begin session response . The initiator upon receiving the key confirmation hash may validate that the key confirmation hash is derived from the master key e.g. by recreating the double hash of the master key derivation and comparing with the key confirmation hash . Further as discussed above the initiator may provide a key confirmation message e.g. a single hash of the master key derivation that provides proof that the initiator has derived the proper master key.

By first providing a double hash of the master key derivation the system may ensure that both the initiator and the responder have derived the proper master key. If a single hash were initially sent from the responder the initiator could confirm that the responder has derived the proper master key but the responder could not be sure that the initiator had derived the proper master key. For instance the initiator could send the single hash of the master key derivation but such data could be sourced from either a computation or merely mirroring back the single hash provided by the responder . By providing the double hash the initiator may recreate the double hash to verify the accuracy of the responder confirmation data . Further the initiator may provide a single hash of the master key derivation in order to provide that tie initiator has derived the proper master key because a single hash is not easily obtainable from the double hash data provided by the responder .

Additionally to ensure that the begin session response message is not tampered with the data may be signed by a signature . In some embodiments an Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm may be used to generate the signature . Upon receipt of the response by the initiator the initiator may verify the data is in its original condition using the signature .

Having now discussed the various pieces of data provided in the begin session response the discussion now turns to calculation of the master key and master key derivations. is a flowchart illustrating a process for obtaining a master key and master key derivations in accordance with an embodiment. As mentioned above one private key combined with one public key may be used to derive a master key useful for secured communications. Accordingly the process begins by collecting a local private key block and a public key from the entity communication is being established with block . Thus the initiator will use the initiator private key in combination with the responder public key e.g. provided in the begin session response message to derive the master key. The responder will use the responder private key in combination with the initiator public key e.g. provided in the begin session request to derive the master key.

The master key may be derived using a Diffie Hellman calculation using the public key obtained at block and the private key obtained at block as illustrated by the processing arrow . The Diffie Hellman calculation results in a master key block . A hash function of the begin session request data block and or a hash function of the begin session response data block are applied to the master key via salt . The salt acts to further strength the master key by providing an additional random input to subsequent master key derivations block . By using the hash functions and or the salt may include both an element of randomness e.g. from the public key data further strengthening the master key derivations. Further the hash functions and or provide an element of authentication e.g. from the signature data to the salt thus increasing the integrity of the salt and or the key derivation. The master key derivation process uses the master key with the salt to define an encryption key an integrity key and a key confirmation key .

The encryption key is used in encryption decryption of the messages sent between the initiator and the responder the integrity key is used by the functions that verify the integrity of the data and the key confirmation key is used in the key confirmation functions described above e.g. the single hash and double hash values are derived from the key confirmation key . By using the key derivation keys e.g. the encryption key the integrity key and the key confirmation key for particular functions of the system implementing the CASE protocol the master key may be further protected from unauthorized exposure thus increasing data security.

In some embodiments a Password Authenticated Session Establishment PASE protocol may be used to establish a common session key between the initiator and responder without requiring a public private key infrastructure. In such embodiments the common session key e.g. the master key or derivative of the master key may be established using a shared password. Such embodiments may use a variant of the Password Authenticaed Key Exchange by Juggling J PAKE protocol to enable both the initiator and the responder to establish private and authenticated communications based solely on their shared relatively low entropy password without requiring a public key infrastructure.

The PASE protocol involves the exchange of three or four messages in one and a half or two round trips. The number of messages exchanged depends on whether the initiator of the exchange requests explicit confirmation of success.

In response to the Begin Message the responder may either provide a reconfigure message e.g. similar to the reconfigure message of or a first Responder PASE response and or a second Responder PASE Response which will be discussed in more detail with regard to . The reconfigure message is provided by the responder when the responder wishes to use a more desirable configuration than that proposed in the Begin message . In response the initiator may provide another Begin message with the configuration dictated by the Reconfigure message .

Upon receiving a Begin message with the proper configuration settings the responder sends a first Responder PASE Response and or a second Responder PASE Response e.g. the message described in . The initiator provides a second PASE response in response to receiving the first PASE response and or the second Responder PASE message from the responder . The data provided in message will be discussed in more detail with regard to . Additionally upon receiving the messages and or the initiator may calculate a master key and or master key derivations function . Function may be similar to process of except that instead of using Diffie Helman calculations on keys and a J PAKE cryptographic protocol is implemented using the data in the messages and e.g. when calculating the key for the initiator . Further the salt may be altered to be a combination of the zero knowledge proof of the message and or message and the message .

Lastly in response to receiving the second PASE response message from the initiator the responder provides a third PASE response to the initiator . The details of the data provided in the message will be described in more detail with regard to . Further the responder now has enough information to calculate the master key and or derivations function . Function may be similar to process of except that instead of using Diffie Helman calculations on keys and a J PAKE cryptographic protocol is implemented using the data in the messages and e.g. when calculating the key for the responder .

A session key identifier sub field e.g. 16 bites may also be included in the control header . The session key identifier sub field may be an unsigned integer specifying the session key id that will be used to identify the session once it is established.

The message may also include J PAKE data such as a gx1 field a gx2 field a zkp x1 gr field a zkp x1 b field a zkp x2 gr field and or a zkp x2 b field . The gx1 field stores the J PAKE gvalue represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The gx2 field stores the J PAKE gvalue represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x1 gr field stores the gvalue associated with the zero knowledge proof of x1 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x1 b field stores the b value associated with the zero knowledge proof of x1 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x2 gr field holds the gvalue associated with the zero knowledge proof of x2 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x2 b field holds the b value associated with the zero knowledge proof of x2 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format.

As mentioned above in response to receiving the message the responder provides a first and or second Responder PASE response message . is a schematic diagram of a first and or second Responder PASE response message in accordance with an embodiment.

The message contains a multitude of fields useful for a J PAKE based key establishment. For example the message may include a gx3 field a gx4 field a zkp x3 gr field a zkp x3 b field a zkp x4 gr field a zkp x4 b field a B field a zkp x4s gr field and a zkp x4s b field . In some embodiments each of these fields are provided in a single Responder PASE response message e.g. the first Responder PASE response message . Alternatively to reduce the amount of data in a single message the fields may be optionally transferred in two messages e.g. the first and second Responder PASE response messages and . The dashed line indicates where such a split into two messages each field above the line e.g. fields and provided in the first Responder PASE response message and each field below the line e.g. fields and provided in the second Responder PASE Response message .

The gx3 field holds the J PAKE gvalue represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The gx4 field holds the J PAKE gvalue represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x3 gr field holds the gvalue associated with the zero knowledge proof of x3 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x3 b field holds the b value associated with the zero knowledge proof of x3 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x4 gr field holds the gvalue associated with the zero knowledge proof of x4 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x4 b field holds the b value associated with the zero knowledge proof of x4 represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The B field holds the J PAKE B value equal to g represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. As used herein s is the secret e.g. password sourced from the password source . The zkp x4s gr field holds the gvalue associated with the zero knowledge proof of x4 s represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x4s b field holds the b value associated with the zero knowledge proof of x4 s represented as a variable length integer in big endian format.

In response to receiving the first response message the initiator provides the responder with a second response message . is a schematic diagram of a second response message of the PASE protocol in accordance with an embodiment.

The second response message includes a control header that includes an explicit confirmation field a an A field a zkp x2s gr field a zkp x2s b field and optionally a double hash k field .

The Control Header e.g. 8 bits is an unsigned integer bit field containing the E Explicit Confirmation Flag e.g. 1 bit sub field . The E sub field is a single bit flag that when set to 1 indicates that initiator wants to perform an explicit confirmation of the derived session key e.g. similar to the key confirmation functionality discussed above .

The A field holds the J PAKE A value equal to g represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x2s gr field holds the gr value associated with the zero knowledge proof of x2 s represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The zkp x2s b field holds the b value associated with the zero knowledge proof of x2 s represented as a variable length integer in big endian format.

The double hash k field is optional and may be of variable length. This field holds the double hash of the derived session key i.e. H H k represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. The double hash k field is only present when the E Explicit Confirmation flag is 1.

In response to receiving the message the responder may send a third response message . a schematic diagram of a third response message of the PASE protocol in accordance with an embodiment. The responder may send the third response message if requested by the initiator . For example this may occur when the initiator sets the E Explicit Confirmation flag field in the second response .

The third response message includes a hash k field that is optional and may be a variable length. For example as mentioned above in some embodiments this message may only be sent when the E flag field is set in the second response . The hash k field holds the hash of the derived session key i.e. H k represented as a variable length integer in big endian format. By providing this message to the initiator the initiator may confirm that the responder has derived the same session key as the initiator .

The specific embodiments described above have been shown by way of example and it should be understood that these embodiments may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms. It should be further understood that the claims are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed but rather to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

