---

title: Medication tracking
abstract: A system and method is described for printing a label with an RFID tag. The system includes an RFID reader that queries a first RFID tag coupled to a first medicinal container that includes a medication. In response, the system receives a first unique identifier and uses the first unique identifier to determine a status of the medication, associate the first medicinal container with a medical provider and print a second label that includes a second RFID tag for a second medicinal container.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582644&OS=09582644&RS=09582644
owner: Kit Check, Inc.
number: 09582644
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151006
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 563 732 filed Dec. 8 2014 entitled MEDICATION TRACKING which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 913 337 filed Dec. 8 2013 entitled ENHANCED MEDICATION MANAGEMENT IN THE OPERATING ROOM ENVIRONMENT U.S. Patent Application No. 62 000 570 filed May 20 2014 entitled ANESTHESIA LABEL CREATION AND MIXTURE PREFERENCES SOLUTION U.S. Patent Application No. 62 020 576 filed Jul. 3 2014 entitled MULTI DOSE INVENTORY SOLUTION and U.S. Patent Application No. 62 062 845 filed Oct. 11 2014 entitled ANESTHESIA CHECK AUTOMATING AND IMPROVING THE WORKFLOW OF ANESTHESIA LABELING ADMINISTRATION AND INVENTORY RECONCILIATION each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Pharmaceutical items for example drugs diluents medical and surgical supplies gauze scissors needles labels baggies bandages packaging vial syringes and or other items that the pharmacy is responsible for such as medications for example drugs diluents etc. in solid or liquid form that have left a pharmacy of a medical care facility are to be managed closely to conform to regulatory guidelines regarding use and waste to avoid misadministration and diversion and to ensure appropriate inventory management and patient billing. In this context medical care providers administer medications received from the pharmacy or removed from a crash cart or other pharmaceutical item storage unit. In some cases prior to or as part of administration the medical care providers transfer one or more medications from one medicinal container for example a vial syringe etc. to another medicinal container and or combine multiple medications into one medicinal container. As part of the transfer the medical care provider prepares a handwritten label for the new medicinal container or new combination of medications in order to identify and track it throughout its lifecycle within the medical care facility. In addition the medical care provider is responsible for returning unused medications including any medications in the new medicinal container from the original set of assigned pharmaceutical items or reporting the administration use or waste of the medications to the pharmacy for inventory management billing and regulatory control.

System and methods are described herein for querying or reading machine readable data from labels associated with medicinal containers generating new labels with machine readable data and tracking the administration waste and return of medications in a medical care facility. Although various aspects of the disclosure will be described with regard to examples and embodiments one skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosed embodiments and examples should not be construed as limiting.

In the present disclosure reference is made to medicinal containers which may also be referred to as medicinal packages including parent and child medicinal containers and medications including parent and child medications. Examples of medicinal containers include but are not limited to vials ampoules IV bags syringes or other containers configured to store a medication and the like.

A child medication can refer to a medication that results from an action such as a transfer of a medication or combination of two or more medications. A parent medication can refer to the medication used in the action such as a medication prior to combination with another parent medication or transfer. In addition a child medicinal container can refer to a medicinal container that stores the child medication and or a medicinal container into which medications are added and a parent medicinal container can refer to a medicinal container that stores parent medications and or a medicinal container from which the medications in the child medicinal container were sourced.

Although referred to as parent and child medications and medicinal containers it will be understood that a parent medicinal container or parent medication in one context may be a child medicinal container or child medication in another context. Similarly a child medicinal container or child medication in one context may be a parent medicinal container or parent medication in another context. For example if Fentanyl in a vial is transferred to a syringe and then combined with sodium chloride in an IV bag the Fentanyl in the syringe can be referred to as a child medication as part of the transfer to the syringe and as a parent medication as part of the combination with the sodium chloride in the IV bag. Similarly the syringe can be referred to as a child medicinal container as part of the Fentanyl transfer to the syringe and as a parent medicinal container as part of the combination of the Fentanyl with the sodium chloride in the IV bag.

In some cases a child medicinal container may be a previously unused medicinal container and or have a single parent medicinal container. Similarly a child medication may have a single parent medication. For example if Propofol is removed from a vial and added to a syringe the vial can be considered the parent medicinal container and the syringe can be considered the child medicinal container and or the Propofol in the vial can be considered the parent medication and the Propofol in the syringe can be considered the child medication. In such cases the syringe may have been previously unused used with the same patient or sterilized prior to the addition of the Propofol.

In certain cases the child medicinal container may have multiple parent medicinal containers and may even be the same as one of the parent medicinal containers. Similarly a child medication may have multiple parent medications. For example if Fentanyl from one vial and sodium chloride from another vial are combined into a syringe the vials can be referred to as the parent medicinal containers and the syringe can be referred to as the child medicinal container and or the Fentanyl and sodium chloride in the vials can be referred to as the parent medications and the combined Fentanyl and sodium chloride in the syringe can be referred to as the child medication.

In some scenarios the child medicinal container can be the same as one of the parent medicinal containers. For example if Fentanyl is in a syringe and sodium chloride is added to the syringe from a vial the vial can be referred to as a parent medicinal container and the syringe can be referred to as a parent medicinal container and the child medicinal container. Similarly the Fentanyl in the syringe prior to the combination and the sodium chloride in the vial prior to the combination can be referred to as the parent medications and the combined Fentanyl and sodium chloride in the syringe can be referred to as the child medication.

It will be understood that the system can track child parent medicinal containers and or child parent medications as desired. Accordingly the examples used above and throughout the description should not be construed as limiting. Furthermore it will be understood that the system can track any pharmaceutical item and is not limited to tracking medicinal containers and or medications.

The system described herein can be used for the identification and lifecycle tracking of medicinal containers within the medical care facility environment and can enhance the identification and lifecycle tracking of medications that have left the medical care facility pharmacy. Child medications or medicinal containers created outside the pharmacy for example at a crash cart in a patient room or in the operating room can be tagged using RFID technology or a serialized number or barcode so that the child medication or child medicinal container as well as any parent medications or parent medicinal containers assigned to the medical provider can be available in the pharmacy s inventory for reconciliation regulatory reporting and as overall inventory management. In some instances users may be barred from creating labels for child medications or medicinal containers that do not follow rules defined by the hospital and regulatory agencies or for medications to which the user does not have permissions.

In addition the system can allow users to indicate administration and non administration of medications and other pharmaceutical items provided by the pharmacy or elsewhere or items created by the provider. By enforcing rules regarding the combination of medications such as drugs and or diluents and creation of child medications or medicinal containers and enhancing the existing reconciliation workflow of providers in the medical care facility the system can be used to create reports for use by the pharmacy and hospital for patient billing detection and elimination of medication diversion detection and elimination of medication misadministration and misuse and other procedural errors or inefficiencies.

In some embodiments the system can rely on data specific to each pharmaceutical inventory item for example medicinal containers such as vials ampoules IV bags and syringes gauze medical supplies etc. originating in the pharmacy or created by the user within the medical care facility environment. This data can be captured by reading data encoded on RFID tags present on each item or alternatively by scanning a serialized barcode or QR code or other technology etc. The system can create RFID or serialized barcode tags for placement on child medicinal containers and can provide the user with the ability to indicate the administration of medication and or the disposal of medication.

Although described above with reference to identification and lifecycle tracking of pharmaceutical items in the medical care facility environment it will be understood that the system can also be used to enforce adherence to regulations regarding creation of child medications or medicinal containers as well as proper administration of medications such as disallowing the use of expired medications and medications from manufacturer lots and or medical care facility lots that have been recalled and providing warnings such when a syringe has already been used by another patient.

Pharmaceutical items such as medicinal containers are processed in several different stages before being distributed to locations inside the hospital such as smaller satellite pharmacies dispensing stations and pre prepared groups of medications in kits and trays. The system described herein can track the location and custody of pharmaceutical items throughout these locations and into the patient administration environment. Once inside the patient administration environment the system can enforce rules regarding the creation administration and reconciliation of both new and preexisting pharmaceutical items.

In the patient administration environment the system can use a handheld tablet or desktop device used to interact with the user an RFID reader or barcode or QR code reader to identify the pharmaceutical items and a printer used to create RFID or serialized tags for pharmaceutical items created within the patient administration environment.

The system can further include a graphical user interface an application programming interface a database containing pharmaceutical items user information data related to hospital specific workflows and rules log entries for pharmaceutical item history custody location administration and other data and an application that sends data to the printer for the creation of standards compliant pharmaceutical labels for items created in the operating room environment.

The system can further record the physical location of items within a hospital or medical center campus and the possession of items by specific users. The system can use both physical checkpoints such as RFID readers and workflow checkpoints to record the location of a pharmaceutical item. For example an RFID tag with a specific unique identifier can be coupled to a 10 mL vial of Fentanyl which is a DEA Schedule II controlled substance. The unique identifier can be used to store data regarding the Fentanyl and or the vial in the database used by the system. As the vial and Fentanyl physically moves throughout the medical care facility RFID readers throughout the medical care facility can record the physical movement and note the location and time that the RFID tag of that pharmaceutical item was read.

Before the vial and medication leaves a pharmacy the system can facilitate the custody assignment of that vial and medication to a specific user and can record the user in possession of the item in a specific place and at a specific time. Tracking the chain of custody can continue in the patient administration environment as the medication can be administered directly to the patient either partially or in its entirety can be discarded into a waste receptacle either partially or in its entirety can be returned to the pharmacy either partially or in its entirety or can be used to create a child medication or child medicinal container in the operating room or elsewhere either partially or in its entirety .

The system can track these additional movements and transformations including any other assignments of custody that might occur within the patient administration context such as assigning custody to another provider to complete a work shift or patient case or procedure. To assign custody to another provider the custodian provider can scan a badge or otherwise self identify to the system. The provider can then scan the medications separately or collectively that are to change custody. The receiving provider can similarly self identify to the system and indicate to the system that they are taking custody. The system can verify the status of the medications for example expiration amounts etc. as described in greater detail below . In addition the system can verify that the receiving provider has the appropriate privileges to receive the medications.

Additionally the system can enforce the rules of the medical care facility by requiring one or more approval actions for changes in custody as well as one or more approval actions for user indications of administration or waste actions. For example the system can allow a provider to indicate they have discarded a pharmaceutical item into a waste receptacle and if the medical care facility rules dictate that action must be verified by another user the system can provide the interface and logging mechanism for the witness to verify the action either through manual interaction with a graphical user interface or by the system reading user information which may come from an RFID enabled badge or some other authentication method.

The tracking mechanisms of the system can pertain to pharmaceutical items compounded elsewhere on site or within the patient administration environment. The system can provide a detailed history of pharmaceutical items used in a patient administration environment regardless of their origin by capturing a snapshot of the package and its contents as it exists over time. The data capture can enable the system to provide a clear picture into the movement of medications through medicinal containers. In turn the system can allow staff members to locate any pharmaceutical item that has been identified as problematic such as expired or recalled medication regardless of whether it has been assigned to a user or a physical location administered to a patient discarded into a waste receptacle or used in the creation of a child medication or child medicinal container.

For example in the patient administration environment an anesthesiology provider may have custody of a vial of Vecuronium bromide powder and a vial of normal saline. The provider can create a child medication or child medicinal container that combines an amount of Vecuronium bromide powder in milligrams with an amount of normal saline in milliliters. The system can handle the combination of pharmaceutical items of different types and can produce a child medication or child medicinal container of the appropriate type. In the example above the system can determine that the combination of a powder and a liquid creates an item that is a mixture combining two liquids results in another liquid and combining two mixtures results in another mixture.

Similarly the system can determine the appropriate unit of measure from the combination of pharmaceutical items measured in different units. In the example above a powder measured in milligrams combined with a liquid measured in milliliters results in a mixture measured in milligrams over milliliters. Similarly a liquid measured in milliliters combined with another liquid measured in milliliters results in a new liquid measured in milliliters and so on.

As part of the process of physically combining items the provider can use the system to create an RFID label or barcode or QR code label to place on the child medicinal container which the system can use to track location custody and administration of the contents of the child medicinal container Vecuronium bromide in Normal Saline or child medication alongside the two parent medications or parent medicinal containers Vecuronium bromide and Normal Saline . The system can automatically create a new expiration date for the child medication and or child medicinal container based on rules set by the medical care facility or otherwise and automatically calculate the volume of the contents within the child medicinal container or child medication. The system can also update the quantity of the parent medicinal containers or parent medications as wells the expiration of the parent medications or parent medicinal containers to reflect that a sterile barrier has been pierced. The system can block a provider from creating child medications or child medicinal containers from expired or recalled sources and it may not allow the provider to create child medications or child medicinal containers outside of rules established by the medical care facility which includes the number of different items within one child medicinal container as well as specific medicinal combinations. Once the label has been created and placed on the child medicinal container the system can associate the label with the child medication or child medicinal container and assign custody to the provider.

The provider can use the system in the same way to produce another distinct child medication or child medicinal container of Vecuronium bromide in Normal Saline from the same parent medications or parent medicinal containers used to create the first child medication or child medicinal container. In this case the system can record both children of the parent medications or parent medicinal containers and track the location custody and administration of all of the medications or medicinal containers separately. The system allows for the creation and tracking of multiple generations of pharmaceutical items. For instance if a provider takes the second generation Vecuronium bromide in Normal Saline item and combines it with a large bag of normal saline for use in an IV drip the system can create another RFID label for the third generation medication or medicinal container and track its custody location and administration accordingly. Should the medical care facility or pharmacy need to account for every milligram of Vecuronium bromide from a specific manufacturer s lot the system can enable them to find not only unused vials on pharmacy shelves but syringes drawn up in the patient administration context as well as bags of solution containing the contents of syringes drawn up in the patient administration context.

The system can also be configured to track amounts of medications moving between items. For example a provider may want to fill three syringes with a DEA Class 2 drug such as Fentanyl but may not indicate the actual amounts transferred from each vial and may simply administer a syringe rather than record partial use. At some point the provider reconciles how much Fentanyl was used administered and wasted. The system can record all of the parent medications or medicinal containers where Fentanyl came from and can also record all of the child medications or medicinal containers such as destination syringes or bags as well as the cases rooms and waste bins where any of the medicinal containers may have been placed. Accordingly the actual reconciliation of how much Fentanyl was used wasted and returned can be reconciled at some later point in time without knowing the exact volumes of drugs in each item along the way.

The system can also provide an efficient mechanism for reconciling the administration and waste of pharmaceutical items in a patient administration context. Through the use of RFID or serialized labels on the pharmaceutical items the provider can scan these items in bulk and perform one action on all of the items scanned or can scan items individual and perform more granular actions. For example at the end of a medical case in the operating room the provider may have ten empty syringes to reconcile. If all of the syringes are empty and the provider intends to place them all in a waste receptacle the system can scan the group of items. The system can identify all items scanned and allows the user to indicate the amount used e.g. all and intention e.g. discard which is then applied to all of the scanned items. The system can also record partial amounts used or wasted of single medicinal containers e.g. 10 mL used and 15 mL wasted from a 25 mL package . The system allows for medical care facilities to specify the intentions they would like to track as well as rules regarding item administration and reconciliation which includes the units of measure used to record administration and waste and whether to record mass versus volume of an item. In addition to the manual reconciliation of administration and waste of items the system can interact with patient electronic medical record stored in systems accessible within the patient administration context. The system can send data regarding syringe contents as well as receive data regarding actual use from the patient s electronic medical records.

The system can use the data captured within the patient administration environment not only for reports within this environment but also for reports used in the pharmacy and medical care facility overall. Using the data captured in the location and custody tracking features the system can provide reports indicating drawers and cabinets in specific locations to be restocked due to expired empty recalled or otherwise incorrect inventory. In addition the system can cause a display to display the inventory of a particular drawer or cabinet. Furthermore as part of the restocking the system can query the RFID or serialized labels on the new items update the database accordingly and report the correct state of the pharmaceutical and supply items in a particular location and as verified by the user. The system can additionally provide detailed reports on pharmaceutical and supply items assigned to a user to a room or to a patient case and the end result of each of those items thus clearly showing where pharmaceutical items such as controlled medications have been misused or lost. Beyond the day to day workflow of tracking drugs the data captured within the system can be used for pattern detection of different events or situations such as diversion patterns over and under administration of drugs by a provider over or under billing of patients pharmaceutical and supply order optimization warning and calculation of waste and the impact on the water supply and other predictive measures.

The label reading station can be located in any location of a medical care facility such as on a particular floor in a particular wing in an operating room patient room or other patient administration environment. In some embodiments multiple label reading stations can be located throughout a medical care facility such as in different patient rooms operating rooms etc.

In the illustrated embodiment the label reading station includes a label printer and a label reader . In some embodiments the label printer and the label reader can be implemented as an RFID label printer and an RFID label reader respectively. In certain embodiments the label printer and the label reader can be implemented using a variety of technologies such as a bar code reader and printer QR code reader and printer etc.

When implemented using barcode or QR code technology the label reader can be configured to capture an image of a barcode or QR code and or emit a laser that can capture the barcode or QR code data. When implemented using RFID technology the label reader can be configured to emit an electromagnetic wave such as a radio wave that activates one or more RFID tags in proximity to the label reader . The emission of the electromagnetic wave can also be referred to as a query. In some embodiments the RFID tags used in conjunction with the label reading station can be passive or active RFID tags.

The electromagnetic wave emitted by the label reader can cause the RFID tags to generate a response that includes data stored on the RFID tag. Upon receiving the data from the RFID tag the label reading station can communicate with the information processing system and or the electronic medical records database to process the data.

In some scenarios as part of the processing the label reading station can generate a label to be affixed to a medicinal container. The label printer can be used to print the new label. In some embodiments the new label can include an RFID tag that has stored thereon a unique identifier. In certain embodiments additional information can be stored on the RFID tag such as medication name data expiration data provider data patient data etc. In some embodiments the label printer prints information regarding the medication onto the RFID tag. Some non limiting embodiments of labels that can be printed by the label printer are described in greater detail below with respect to . In certain embodiments the label printer can be configured to print the RFID tag or print onto a label that already includes an RFID tag. Similarly in some embodiments the label printer can be configured to print a bar code or QR code and or print onto a label that already includes a bar code or QR code.

Although the illustrated embodiment shows the label reading station as including a label printer and a label reader it will be understood that in some embodiments the label reading station may include fewer or more components. For example in some scenarios the label reading station can omit the label printer . In such embodiments the label reading station can be placed at or near a location where a medication is being administered to a patient. In such situations a medical care provider can place a label near the label reading station which can be read by the label reader . The label reading station can then transmit the information to the information processing system for processing. Accordingly the information processing system can update the medical records of the particular patient with data regarding the administration of the medication determine whether a particular medication has been provided to a patient located at or near the label reading station determine whether the medicinal container has been used previously etc. In some embodiments the label reading station can be implemented as a portable or handheld device that can be used to quickly and easily read RFID tags.

Furthermore although reference is made throughout the specification to the label reading station performing various analytical or processing functions it will be understood that in some embodiments the information processing system performs these functions and the label reading station is used to acquire data from one or more labels display data based on data and or instructions received from the information processing system and print a label based on data and or instructions received from the information processing system . In such embodiments the label reading station can receive notifications of processing functions performed by the information processing system such as indications of the verification of a medication and or indications regarding associations between any combination of medications medicinal containers unique identifiers medical providers and or patients etc. Accordingly in some embodiments the amount of processing performed by the label reading station can be reduced and or minimized and the label reading station can act as a conduit to the information processing system . In this way the hardware requirements and costs of the label reading station can be reduced in favor of a larger or more robust information processing system . In certain embodiments the label reading station can include the information processing system and perform all of the functions described herein.

The information processing system can include one or more microprocessors a data storage device a personal health data storage device and a network interface for communication over the network . In some embodiments the information processing system can be implemented as a server or workstation located at a remote facility or at the same medical care facility. The data storage device can include information regarding medications and pharmaceutical items used in the environment user that are allowed to use the label reading station account information for individual medical care facilities audit information reports logs and various rules with regards to the medications etc.

The rules can include information regarding which medications can be used with each other preferences for different users how to calculate expiration dates for medications substitute medications that can be used in place of other medications drug policies etc. Using the information received from the label reading station and data in the data storage device the information processing system can verify the status of the medications calculate expiration dates for the medications determine whether a medication has been recalled or is expired provide mixing or dilutions suggestions associate medications RFID tags and or unique identifiers with medical care providers and or patients generate restocking notifications create new database entries for new medications and or new RFID tags track drug administration and or reconciliation generate reports regarding drug administration by various providers reports regarding drug administration to different patients etc.

The personal health data storage device can include personal health information of the patients at a medical care facility similar to that stored in the electronic medical records database . In some embodiments the personal health data storage device stores a subset of the data from the electronic medical records database such as gender allergic reactions and medications received etc. In certain embodiments the personal health data storage device is a copy of the electronic medical records database . In some cases the personal health data storage device can include data from multiple electronic medical records databases from various medical care facilities.

Furthermore as data in the personal health data storage device is changed by the information processing system a similar change can be made in the electronic medical records database . Similarly changes to the electronic medical records database can be updated in the personal health data storage device . In this way the personal health data storage device and electronic medical records database can be synched.

In some cases additional requirements are placed on databases that store patient identifying data. Accordingly in some embodiments the data storage device can be implemented separately from the personal health data storage device as either a separate database and or on a distinct data storage device. However it will be understood that in certain embodiments the data storage device and personal health data storage device can be implemented as part of the same database and or on the same storage device.

When implemented separately the data storage device can include a unique identifier for each patient that does not include personal health data. For example the unique identifier can be a unique number or other identifier. When the data storage device desires to access personal health data it can use the unique identifier to communicate with the personal health data storage device . In this way the personal health information can be separated from non personal health information.

Furthermore in some embodiments the information processing system can omit the personal health data storage device . For example in some cases a particular medical care facility may prefer not to have a copy of personal health information stored outside the electronic medical records database . In such embodiments the information processing system can omit the personal health data storage device .

The electronic medical records database can include patient specific information such as gender age medical history medications taken allergies weight medical procedures vital signs audit info and whatever other information a medical care provider desires. The electronic medical records from the electronic medical records database can be used in conjunction with the rules in the data storage device of the information processing system to determine which medications can be provided to a patient and generate labels at the label reading station .

In certain embodiments the label reading station the information processing system and or the electronic medical records database can implemented in a single device. In some embodiments the information processing system and or the electronic medical records database can be remotely located from the label reading station . For example the electronic medical records database and the information processing system can be located at a different site from the medical care facility. In some embodiments electronic medical records database and the information processing system can be proximally located at the same medical care facility such as in the same room or floor of the medical care facility.

In the illustrated embodiment the label reading station includes a display a label printer . In addition the label reading station can include a label reader not shown microprocessor a data storage device and a network interface. The microprocessor can be configured to execute instructions stored in the data storage device and to read and write data to and from the data storage device. The network interface can be used by the microprocessor to communicate with the electronic medical records database and or the information processing system as described previously with respect to .

The display can be used to prompt a user for information and to display information regarding the medications labels patients medicinal containers etc. For example the display can be used to display a prompt for the user to tap a label to the display or to move a label in close proximity to the display such that the label reader can read the label. In addition the display can be used to display information as the label reading station prepares and prints a label. For example the display can display information regarding a medication that will be printed onto a new label.

The label reader not shown in can be located behind the display or in some other location within the label reading station such that when a label touches or is placed in close proximity for example twelve inches or less or some other desired distance to the label reading station the label reader can read the contents of the label. Furthermore in some embodiments the label reader can be configured to emit an electromagnetic field large enough to capture data from all RFID tags stored in the pharmaceutical item storage unit . In this way the label reader can determine when a medicinal container associated with an RFID tag is removed from the pharmaceutical item storage unit without having to touch the RFID tag or place the RFID tag in close proximity to the label reading station . Although described with respect to RFID technology it will be understood that the labels can be implemented using any number or combination of technologies including but not limited to bar codes QR codes etc.

As described previously with respect to the label reading station can be used in conjunction with the information processing system to verify the status of medications in the pharmaceutical item storage unit . For example labels associated with or coupled to the medicinal containers in the pharmaceutical item storage unit can be queried and read by the label reading station . Once read the label reading station can look up information regarding the medications such as the expiration date recall information warnings etc. The label reading station can also be used to print labels for medicinal containers. The new labels may replace old labels on a medicinal container and or can be placed on an unused or child medicinal container. The labels printed by the label reading station will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The label reading station in conjunction with the information processing system can further be used to manage inventory of the pharmaceutical item storage unit . For example when a medication is removed from the pharmaceutical item storage unit by a user and scanned by the label reading station the information can be used to determine whether the pharmaceutical item storage unit includes a threshold number of the medication that was removed. For example if Propofol is removed from the pharmaceutical item storage unit and there is only one vial of Propofol left in the pharmaceutical item storage unit the label reading station can generate a notification indicating that the pharmaceutical item storage unit should be restocked with more Propofol.

In some embodiments the label reading station and or information processing system can track the total number of each medication found within the pharmaceutical item storage unit and from use that information to determine whether a threshold has been satisfied. In some embodiments the label reading station and or information processing system can use a one out one in policy such that for each medication removed the label reading station and or information processing system can request a replacement medication.

In determining whether a threshold has been reached the label reading station and or information processing system can use templates as described in greater detail in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 14 472 410 and 13 554 342 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The templates can be used to identify substitute medications that can be used when a particular medication is not present. For example the templates can indicate a generic version of a branded drug and or other drugs that can be used as a substitute. In some embodiments the substitute drug can be the same drug but at a different concentration or a different amount. In certain embodiments the substitute drug may not be chemically equivalent and or have a different active ingredient but is deemed medically suitable for a particular use or as a substitute to the missing drug.

The label reading station and or information processing system can further be used to manage and track which medications are in a user s possession. For example when a doctor scans a label for medication A medication A can be associated with the doctor indicating that the doctor is in possession of a particular medicinal container storing medication A. Accordingly throughout the day as the doctor removes medications from pharmaceutical item storage units administers medications to a patient or wastes medications the label reading station and or information processing system can be used to track all of the medications in the doctor s possession. This information can be used by the pharmacy to reconcile all medications used by the doctor and ensure medications are not misplaced lost or abused.

The label reading station and or information processing system can further be used to handle and reconcile waste. For example after a doctor has administered a medication to a patient any remaining portions of the medication in a vial or syringe may need to be discarded. Accordingly the label reading station and or information processing system can provide prompts for the doctor to discard the medications and in some embodiments prompt a second doctor to act as a witness for the reconciliation or waste of the medication.

In the illustrated embodiments of the label reading station is coupled to the pharmaceutical item storage unit . However it will be understood that the label reading station can be located in any one or more locations within a medical care facility. For example the label reading station can be located in an operating room in a patient room or in a pharmacy. Furthermore the label reading station can be used in conjunction with the information processing system to track the administration of medications to a patient determine allergic reactions of the medication with a particular patient update an electronic medical record of a patient calculate waste based on an amount of medication given to a patient and or determine whether a particular medication has been used previously such as on a different patient or is expired or recalled.

As a non limiting example when a doctor enters a patient s room and or an operating room in which medications will be administered to a patient the label reading station can scan or read the contents of an RFID tag associated with a particular medication. In this situation the medication can be associated with the patient that is in the patient room or operating room. Using this information the label reading station and or information processing system can determine whether the patient may have any allergic reactions to the medication update the patient s electronic medical record with information regarding the administration of the medication and or calculate the waste based on the amount of the medication used on the patient. In addition the label reading station and or information processing system can determine whether the medication or medicinal container has been used previously. In this manner the label reading station and or information processing system can prevent multiple uses of a medicinal container such as a syringe on different patients.

In some embodiments the label reading station can omit the display and or the label printer . Furthermore the label reading station can be any form factor including a smaller or more portable electronic device such as a phone tablet personal electronic device etc. For example a smaller or more portable form factor of the label reading station can be used in an operating room and or a patient s room to conserve space.

Furthermore in some embodiments a smaller form factor of the label reading station can be used as a type of wand to inventory the contents of the pharmaceutical item storage unit . Once the contents of the pharmaceutical item storage unit are inventoried the information processing system can generate a template for the pharmaceutical item storage unit for restocking purposes and or compare the inventoried items with a template to determine whether any items are to be restocked.

Similarly the abbreviated data portions can extend height wise along a latitudinal portion of the RFID portion as is shown in or lengthwise along a longitudinal portion of the RFID portion as is shown in . In addition the abbreviated data portions can share or be coupled with each other along a longitudinal portion as is shown in or along a latitudinal portion as is shown in .

In the illustrated embodiment of text printed on the RFID portion is oriented at a 90 angled difference from the text printed onto the abbreviated data portions . In the illustrated embodiment of the text printed on the RFID portion can have the same orientation as text printed onto the abbreviated data portions .

Although illustrate specific embodiments of the label it will be understood that the various portions can be coupled together in a variety of orientations as desired. Furthermore text printed on any one or more of the portions can be printed in the same orientation or in different orientations as desired. In addition although in the illustrated embodiments the applicator portion extends across an entire length or height of the label it will be understood that it can extend along a more or less of the RFID portion as desired. For example the applicator portion A can extend along less than the entire length of the RFID portion or more than the length of the RFID portion . Similarly the applicator portion B can extend along the less than the entire height of the RFID portion or more than the entire height of the RFID portion . In some embodiments the abbreviated data portions can be detachably coupled to the RFID portion and or to each other. In this way the abbreviated data portions can be removed from the rest of the label and applied to different portions of a medicinal container in order to provide a user the ability to read information regarding the contents of the medicinal container from a variety of positions angles or orientations.

The applicator portion can include an adhesive formed on one side and can be transparent or translucent. In this way the applicator portion can be applied to a medicinal container such as a syringe without obscuring the view of any information printed on the medicinal container such as units of measure. However it will be understood that the applicator portion can be opaque.

In embodiments where the applicator portion extends lengthwise across a longitudinal portion of the RFID portion the label can be applied to the medicinal container in such a way as to reduce the amount of the label that extends away from the medicinal container. This can reduce the likelihood of the label catching onto some other object.

In certain embodiments in which the applicator portion for example applicator portion B in which the applicator portion extends along a latitudinal portion of the RFID portion the label can be configured so as to minimize or reduce the amount of adhesive used in coupling the label to the medicinal container.

In the illustrated embodiment the RFID portion includes an RFID tag a printable surface and is opaque. However it will be understood that the RFID portion can use other machine readable data such as a bar code or QR code etc. In addition it will be understood that in some embodiments the RFID portion can be transparent or translucent and or not include a printable surface. Furthermore in some embodiments the RFID portion does not include an adhesive and in certain embodiments the RFID portion includes an adhesive.

The RFID portion can include machine readable data as well as human readable text. The machine readable data can include a serialized identifier or unique ID stored on an RFID tag which distinguishes the RFID tag from other RFID tags that are registered with the information processing system . In this way the information processing system can store data that is unique to the label and enables the information processing system to distinguish the label and the medicinal container to which the label is attached from all other medicinal containers including medicinal containers that form part of the same lot as the medicinal container.

Using the unique identifier the information processing system can store and look up data unique to the label . For example the data can include one or more lot numbers to which the medication or medicinal container belongs chain of custody data expiration data recall data drug class data concentration data total medication amount data preparation data transfer data etc. This data can be used by the information processing system to verify the status of the medication contained within the medicinal container produce warnings provide instructions and or information and print labels. In some embodiments the RFID portion can store some or all of the data on the RFID tag included within the RFID portion . In some embodiments the RFID tag included within the RFID portion includes only the unique identifier and the other data associated with unique identifier is stored at the label reading station and or the data storage device of the information processing system .

In addition to the RFID tag the RFID portion can include text and other information regarding the medication and or the medicinal container to which the label is affixed. For example the RFID portion can include a color identifier identifying the drug class of the medication a drug name concentration of the drug total amount of the drug expiration data user identifier preparation data and or any other information desired. In this way a user can read the text on the RFID portion to determine the contents of the medicinal container. As mentioned previously although reference is made to an RFID tag forming part of the RFID portion it will be understood that other machine readable identifiers can be used such as a bar code QR code etc. Such identifiers can include either a unique identifier or serialized identifier or additional data as described previously.

The abbreviated data portions in the illustrated embodiment of are opaque and include some of the data printed on the RFID portion . For example the abbreviated data portions of include the drug name and the concentration as well as a color code identifier indicating the class of the drug. However it will be understood that the abbreviated data portions can be transparent and or translucent and need not have an adhesive portion. Furthermore as mentioned previously the abbreviated data portions can be detachably coupled to the RFID portion such as using a perforated line a separate sheet etc. such that the abbreviated data portions can be removed separately from the RFID portion and affixed to different portions of the medicinal container as desired.

Furthermore although illustrated as having two abbreviated data portions it will be understood that the label can have fewer or more abbreviated data portions as desired. For example in some embodiments the label does not include any abbreviated data portions or only one abbreviated data portion. In certain embodiments the label can include three or more abbreviated data portions arranged in any number of orientations such as the orientation shown in or any other orientation as desired.

With respect to specific lengths and heights of the label the applicator portion the RFID portion and the abbreviated data portions are provided. However it will be understood that the label the applicator portion the RFID portion and the abbreviated data portions can be configured using any dimension as desired. Accordingly the dimensions illustrated in should not be construed as limiting.

In the illustrated embodiments of the user interface includes user data an inventory link a medicinal container preparation link and a patient data link first medication information second medication information a total volume field a mixture object and other interface objects including a preview object a print object and a clear all object .

The various links can be used to navigate to various portions of the user interface . For example the inventory data link can be used to navigate to a portion of the user interface displaying medications that are in the possession of a user as well as additional information regarding the use of those medications such as the embodiments of the user interface illustrated in . The medicinal container preparation link can be used to navigate to portions of the user interface for preparing labels for medicinal containers such as the embodiments illustrated in . The labels can be prepared for medicinal containers that already include a label and or can be prepared for medicinal containers that do not include a label . The patient data link can be used to navigate to portions of the user interface in which data regarding individual patients associated with the user are displayed such as the embodiments of the user interface illustrated in .

The medication names can include a proper name for the medication a generic name for the medication and or other identifying name for the medication. The class identifier can indicate the class of the medication such as a drug classification. In some embodiments the class identifier can be a color coded drug class identifier or other identifier to indicate the classification of the medication or drug.

The mass field can indicate the total mass of the medicinal container associated with the label that is scanned by the label reading station . The final concentration field can indicate the final concentration of the child medication or content of a child medicinal container. The total volume field can indicate the total volume of the child medication or content of the child medicinal container.

The first medication volume field can indicate the volume of the parent medication being removed or the volume being removed from the parent medicinal container. Similarly the second medication volume field can indicate the volume of the parent medication being removed and or the volume being removed from the second parent medicinal container and being added to the child medicinal container to form the child medication.

By interacting with the mixture object the system can provide the user with one or more suggestions of diluents that can be combined with the medication as illustrated on . The suggested medications can be based on medical facility rules for example medications that the medical care facility has indicated as being permissibly combined with a particular medication best practices user preferences for example medications that the user has indicated that they prefer to use with a particular medication and or user history for example previous medications that the user has used in the past .

The additional interface objects can be used to control portions of the user interface and or navigate to different portions of the user interface . For example interacting with the preview object can provide the user with a preview of a label to be printed based on the contents of the user interface and interacting with the print object can cause the label reading station to print a label based on the information displayed on the user interface .

With continued reference to once the relevant information has been captured regarding the generation of a new label the label reading station can communicate the information to the information processing system . In response the information processing system can generate a new database entry in the data storage device for the child medication or child medicinal container. The new database entry can include information regarding the drug name class identification concentration origin information including information regarding the parent medications or parent medicinal containers expiration volume information lot number information regarding the parent medications or parent medicinal containers and other information to track the child medication or child medicinal container.

Once the new label is printed the unique identifier from the RFID tag of the label can be associated with the new database entry. In some embodiments this association can take place during the printing of the label and or following the printing of the label . For example a user can tap or place the newly generated label on or near the label reading station . The label reading station can read the unique identifier from the label and use that information to associate the unique identifier with the data regarding the contents of the new medicinal container.

In addition as part of this process the information processing system can update the medication data associated with the parent medications or parent medicinal containers. For example the information processing system can update an expiration date for the parent medications or parent medicinal containers from a sealed expiration date to a broken seal expiration date a vial expiration date to a syringe expiration date and or a refrigerated expiration date to a non refrigerated expiration date etc. as described in greater detail below.

In some embodiments the information processing system can reduce quantity data associated with the parent medications or parent medicinal containers and increase quantity data associated with the child medication or child medicinal container. For example if the parent medicinal container is a vial and included four mL of Fentanyl two of which were removed and placed into the child medicinal container to form the child medication the information processing system can decrement the quantity data associated with the parent medication and or parent medicinal container by two mL and increase the child medication or contents of the child medicinal container by two mL.

The first medication information can include but is not limited to a medication name a class identifier concentration data a mass field a final concentration field origin data indicating the origin of the medication shown in and a first medication volume field shown in .

The second medication information can include similar information. In the illustrated embodiment of the second medication information includes a medication name concentration data origin data indicating the origin of the second medication and a second medication volume field . It will be understood that the medication information for each medication can include less or more information as desired.

The various fields illustrated in the user interface can be finable fields or auto populated. In some embodiments some of the fields auto populate based on data collected in a fillable field. For example the total volume field can auto populate based on the contents of the first medication volume field and the second medication volume field . Similarly the final concentration field can also be auto populated based on the information from the mass field the first medication volume field and or the second medication volume field .

The origin data can indicate the origin of the medications respectively. For example the origin data can indicate that the first medication originated from a medicinal container such as a vial that also includes a label uniquely identifying the vial. The origin data can indicate that the second medication originates from a medicinal container that does not include a label . For example the second medication can originate from an IV bag or drip line that is not tracked and or does not include a label .

In the illustrated embodiment of the user interface provides the medication name and concentration a medication volume and a quantity of medicinal containers of the particular medication . As the medical care provider uses wastes or returns the medicinal containers the information processing system can update the inventory data of the user. In this way the information processing system can maintain an accurate record of the medications in the custody of the medical care providers in a particular medical care facility.

In some embodiments the information processing system can automatically determine that medications are to be provided to a particular patient based at least in part on the location of the label reading station and the electronic medical records of the particular patient. For example if the label reading station is located in operating room 1 and the medical records of Abigail Jones indicate that she is in operating room 1 when the medical care provider logs into or accesses the label reading station the information processing system can automatically determine that a procedure is in progress for Abigail Jones and that the medical care provider will be administering medications to Abigail Jones.

As the label reading station in the operating room 1 reads RFID tags associated with various medicinal containers the information processing system can associate the various medicinal containers with the Abigail Jones and with the medical care provider if it has not already done so as part of a label creation . As the RFID tags are scanned information regarding them can be displayed on the user interface . Furthermore the information processing system can verify the status of the medications log the date and time of administration determine whether Abigail Jones may have any allergic reactions to the medications etc. The label reading station can display applicable warnings based on the processing of the information processing system . For example the label reading station can display or sound a warning indicating a possible allergic reaction to a medication an adverse reaction between two medications an expired medication etc.

As the medications are administered the information processing system can update the data storage device personal health data storage device and or the electronic medical records database . For example the information processing system can indicate in the personal health data storage device and or the electronic medical records database that a particular medication has been administered to the patient.

In addition the information processing system can update the medication data for the particular medication to indicate the quantity that was administered. From that information the information processing system can determine the amount of the medication that is to be returned or wasted. Furthermore the information processing system can update any expiration dates associated with the medication. For example the expiration date may be changed from a sealed expiration date to a broken seal expiration date as described in greater detail below.

In the illustrated embodiments of the user interface includes a current patient data completed procedure patient data a medication delivery time icon a medication detailed information icon add edit medication icons and information regarding medications used during the procedure including drug classification medication name concentration data time of administration .

The patient data and completed procedure patient data can include information uniquely identifying a patient such as a patient name date of birth gender and or a patient identification number etc. The patient data and completed procedure patient data can correspond to patients with whom the user or medical care provider is working or has worked. As mentioned previously the label reading station and or information processing system can communicate with an electronic medical records database to retrieve data regarding the patients of a particular medical care facility. Using the data from the electronic medical records database the information processing system can associate the patients with a particular medical care provider.

The medication delivery time icon and medication detailed information icon can be used to alter the information displayed on the user interface . In the illustrated embodiment of the medication delivery time icon is selected and in the illustrated embodiment of the medication detailed information icon is selected.

The add edit medication icons can be used to add information regarding additional medications that are used during the current procedure with the identified patient. In some embodiments the information can be added by scanning an RFID tag associated with a medicinal container.

The medication name concentration data can be similar to the drug name concentration data described previously with respect to . The time of administration can indicate the time at which a particular medication is administered to the patient. The drug classification can indicate the classification of the medication or drug that is administered to the patient as described previously.

The user interface can include additional information and objects as desired. For example in the illustrated embodiment of the user interface includes information regarding the type of procedure being performed on the patient the start time of the procedure and a finish procedure object to indicate when the procedure for the patient is completed and or when the medical care provider leaves the procedure.

As mentioned previously includes an illustrated embodiment of the user interface when the medication detailed information icon is selected. Accordingly in the illustrated embodiment of the user interface further includes initial amount data administered amount data wasted amount data remainder amount data and to waste amount data for each medication.

In the illustrated embodiment it is shown that a vial containing five milligrams of Midazolam was associated with the patient. Of the five milligrams three milligrams were administered to the patient. Accordingly the to waste amount data of the user interface indicates that two milligrams of Midazolam are to be wasted. Once wasted the user interface can be updated to reflect the wasted amount as 2 mg and the to be wasted amount as zero.

Furthermore in the illustrated embodiment of a vial containing 200 micrograms of Fentanyl has been associated with the patient Abigail Jones. However the illustrated embodiment indicates that 250 micrograms of Fentanyl were administered. In such an instance when the amount administered exceeds the initial amount of the medicinal container a warning icon can be provided. In addition a warning message or popup window can be displayed requesting additional information regarding the discrepancy between the initial amount of the medication and the amount administered. Using the popup window or additional data field a user can provide information indicating an additional initial amount . For example it may be that the medical care provider used a second medicinal container and administered 50 micrograms of Fentanyl from the second medicinal container without the label reading station scanning an RFID tag associated with the second medicinal container. Accordingly the medical care provider can update the initial amount of Fentanyl from 200 micrograms to 400 micrograms by scanning the RFID tag associated with the second medicinal container or manually entering the information . Upon updating the information the information processing system can calculate that the amount of Fentanyl to be wasted is 150 micrograms and the user interface can be updated accordingly as illustrated in .

The to waste medication quantity can include the number of medicinal containers that include medications that are to be wasted. In the illustrated embodiment of there are four medicinal containers that include medications that are to be wasted.

The to return medication quantity can indicate the number of medicinal containers that are to be returned to the pharmacy. This quantity may indicate medicinal containers that were never used by the medical care provider or medicinal containers that include medications that can be reused by the pharmacy.

In addition the user interface can include additional information regarding the medications that are to be wasted. For example the user interface can include medication data initial quantity data to waste quantity data and drug classification data . As described in greater detail above the item data can include medication name and concentration the initial quantity data can include an initial quantity of a medication and a particular medicinal container the to waste quantity data can indicate the total amount of the particular medication that is to be wasted and a drug classification data can indicate a drug classification of the particular medication.

For medications that are to be returned the user interface can include some or different information as the information that is used for the medication that is to be wasted. For example the user interface can indicate item data medicinal container volume data quantity of medicinal containers to return data and drug classification data .

The medicinal container volume data can include information regarding the volume of the medication within a particular medicinal container and the quantity of medicinal containers to return data can indicate the number of medicinal containers containing a particular medication that are to be returned to the pharmacy.

In addition the user interface can include a to waste witness icon . By interacting with the waste witness icon the user interface can enable the user to waste the medications. The user interface can control what the user is able to do in order to enforce one or more policies set by the medical care facility. For example the user interface can require another medical care provider to witness the wasting of the medications. In addition the user interface can require the witness to sign and or scan in in order to ensure that the witness is present for the wasting.

Following the wasting and reconciliation of the medications the information processing system can generate a receipt indicating the inventory of the medications that were in the possession of the user as well as a detailed report regarding which medications were administered to which patients which medications were wasted and their quantity the identification of the witness and which medications were returned to the pharmacy etc. In this regard the information processing system can provide a complete audit trail and chain of custody of a medication throughout its use at a medical care facility.

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the elements outlined for routine can be implemented by one or many computing devices components that are associated with the environment including but not limited to the label reading station the information processing system and or the electronic medical records database or any combination thereof. For simplicity routine has been associated as being generally performed by the label reading station and thus the following illustrative embodiments should not be construed as limiting.

At block the label reading station queries a first RFID tag of a first label. To query the first RFID tag the label reading station can emit an electromagnetic wave that activates the first RFID tag or causes the RFID tag to emit a response. In some embodiments such as when an RFID tag is not used the label reading station can include a QR code reader or bar code reader that is able to query the first label containing machine readable data.

At block the label reading station receives a first unique identifier from the first label. As mentioned previously each RFID tag can include a unique identifier that uniquely identifies that RFID tag from all other RFID tags in a particular pharmaceutical item storage unit at the medical care facility and or that are tracked by the information processing system . In this way each medicinal container associated with an RFID tag can be uniquely identified.

Furthermore the information processing system can include a database entry for each unique identifier. The database entry for the unique identifier can include information regarding the medicinal container medication name drug classification concentration of the medication within the medicinal container total volume lot numbers associated with the medication and or the medicinal container expiration data of the medication recall information regarding the medication national drug code NDC user and facility audit information multi dose information refrigerated information and or event history etc. In some embodiments the RFID tag can store some or all of the data associated with the unique identifier.

At block the label reading station can verify the status of the medication using the data associated with the first unique identifier. Although reference is made to the label reading station verifying the status it will be understood that in some embodiments the label reading station receives a status from the information processing system based on an analysis conducted by the information processing system and in certain embodiments the label reading station analyzes the data to determine the status. In some embodiments to verify the medication status the label reading station can determine whether the medication is part of a recall and or has expired.

To determine whether the medication is part of a recall the label reading station can cross reference the lot numbers associated with the first unique identifier including lot numbers associated with the unique identifiers of all parent medications or parent medicinal containers with lot numbers that have been recalled. In some embodiments to verify whether a medication has been recalled the information processing system can consider only those lot numbers that were created at the same time as or prior to the creation of the database entry corresponding to the first unique identifier. For example in some instances a child medication is created or a medication is added to a child medicinal container and then something happens to the medication remaining in the parent medicinal container or parent medication such that the parent medication is to subject to a recall or is to be discarded. However in some embodiments the recall is only applied to the medication remaining in the parent medicinal container and does not apply to the child medication that was already in the child medicinal container.

To verify the expiration of the medication the label reading station can determine whether the current date and time is past an expiration date and time of the medication. As part of the expiration verification the label reading station can identify multiple expirations and use the earliest expiration to determine whether the medication is expired. For example some medicinal containers may include multiple medications. Each medication may have one or more expirations the combination of the medications may create a different expiration and one or more rules may apply to the medications or combination thereof.

For example some medications have an expiration based on refrigeration and a different expiration when not refrigerated. Similarly once a seal of a medicinal container is broken the expiration for a medication such as a multi dose medication may change. For example while sealed a medication may have a one year shelf life but once the seal is broken or punctured the expiration may change to 60 days from the time the seal was broken or punctured. The broken seal expiration may vary depending on the medication.

In some cases when a medication is moved to a syringe the expiration of the medication in the syringe is different than the expiration of the medication in a vial. For example a medical care facility may have a rule that all syringes expire within 12 hours of being drawn. In certain embodiments the location of where the syringe is drawn can affect the expiration. For example a medical care facility may have a rule that syringes drawn in a patient administration environment expire in 24 hours or less while syringes drawn in a clean room expire in 7 days. Furthermore in some embodiments combining two medications can result in a different expiration. As such in embodiments where multiple expirations are provided the label reading station can compare the current date and time with the earliest expiration to determine whether the medication is expired. In certain embodiments only the earliest expiration is provided in conjunction with the unique identifier and is used to determine whether the medication is expired.

In some embodiments as part of verifying the status of the medication the label reading station can determine whether the medical provider has appropriate rights or permissions to handle the medication. For example some medications can only be handled by certain personnel at a medical care facility. Accordingly the label reading station can query whether the medical provider that is attempting to handle the medication has the appropriate permissions.

In some embodiments if the medication cannot be verified the label reading station can display a warning or disallow the use of the medication. For example the label reading station can display a warning that the medication is expired or recalled. In addition when two medications are being combined and the information processing system can as part of the verification determine whether the combination would have any adverse reactions. If the information processing system determines that the combination of the two medications would cause an adverse reaction the label reading station can display a warning or disallow the printing of a label for the combination etc.

At block the label reading station generates a second expiration date for the medication. The label reading station can generate the second expiration date in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments the label reading station can use the same expiration date as the parent medication or parent medicinal container. In certain embodiments the label reading station can generate the second expiration date based on one or more rules associated with the parent medication. For example once Propofol has been removed from a vial and placed into a syringe its shelf life decreases to six hours. In such instances the label reading station can calculate the second expiration date based on the rules of the Propofol or other applicable rules of the parent medication s or medical care facility as described above.

In embodiments in which multiple parent medications are combined to form the child medication the label reading station can generate the second expiration date by reviewing the expiration dates of all parent medications that will be used to form the child medication as well as any rules associated with the parent medications or medical care facility. As mentioned previously medications and combinations of medications can have various expirations. The label reading station can determine the second expiration date as the earliest expiration date of all of the expiration dates of the parent medications as well as the expiration date based on any rules associated with the parent medications.

At block the label reading station associates the first RFID tag with a medical care provider. To associate the first RFID tag with the medical care provider the label reading station can identify the medical care provider that has logged into or scanned their badge prior to scanning the first RFID tag. The label reading station can then associate the first unique identifier of the first RFID tag with a unique identifier of the medical care provider in the data storage device of the information processing system . As part of the association an entry can be added to the information associated with the unique identifier of the RFID tag indicating that the medical care provider has accessed taken control of is in possession of and or has used the medicinal container associated with the first unique identifier.

At block the label reading station can print medication data on a second label having a second RFID tag. The medication data can include the name of the medication the expiration of the medication the concentration of the medication and or the total volume of the medication in the second medicinal container. In addition to the medication data the label reading station can print information regarding the transfer of the medication including the date and time of the transfer and the identification of the user that caused the printing to occur.

In some embodiments the label reading station can print the medication and other data onto the labels described previously with respect to and B. Furthermore in some embodiments the second RFID tag can include a second unique identifier that uniquely identifies the RFID tag from all other RFID tags included in the information processing system .

At block the label reading station queries the second RFID tag. As described previously with respect to block the label reading station can query the second RFID tag using electromagnetic waves. However it will be understood that a variety of technologies can be used to query the machine readable data contained on the second label. In some embodiments the label reading station can query the second RFID tag during printing of the medication data on to the second label. In certain embodiments the label reading station can query a second RFID tag after printing the medication data onto the second label. In such embodiments following the printing of the medication data on the second label a user can tap or move the label onto or in close proximity to the label reading station .

At block the label reading station receives the second unique identifier from the second RFID tag. As mentioned previously this second unique identifier can be associated with or used to generate a new database entry for the data for the child medication or child medicinal container. The database entry can include information similar to the database entry described previously.

At block the label reading station associates the second medicinal container with the medical care provider. For example the label reading station can associate the second unique identifier with the medical care provider indicating that the medical care provider created is in possession of or in some other way used the child medication or child medicinal container associated with the second label. In this way the information processing system can track the chain of custody of the child medication and or child medicinal container and provide audit information regarding its location and use.

At block the label reading station can associate the child medication or child medicinal container using the second unique identifier with a medical patient. For example similar to the manner in which the label reading station associates the child medication or child medicinal container with the medical care provider the label reading station can associate the child medication or child medicinal container with the medical patient. For example the second unique identifier can be associated with the medical patient indicating that the child medication is to be used for the medical patient.

At block the label reading station determines that the pharmaceutical item storage unit does not store a threshold quantity of the medication. In some embodiments the label reading station can store a complete inventory of the pharmaceutical item storage unit such that each time a medicinal container is removed from the pharmaceutical item storage unit the label reading station can decrement the total number of medicinal containers containing the particular medication. The label reading station can then compare the updated quantity of medicinal containers including a particular medication with a threshold quantity of medicinal containers containing the medication. Upon determining that the quantity of medicinal containers containing the medication does not satisfy the threshold quantity the label reading station can generate a restocking notification as illustrated at block .

In some embodiments the label reading station may not store or know the inventory of the medication stored in the pharmaceutical item storage unit. As such the label reading station can implement a one out one in inventory policy such that each time a particular medication is removed from the pharmaceutical item storage unit the label reading station can generate a restocking notification to replace the medication that has been removed.

In some embodiments the label reading station can use one or more templates to determine whether or not the pharmaceutical item storage unit stores a threshold quantity of a medication. The templates can indicate one or more substitute medications and or substitute quantities that may be used in case a particular medication does not satisfy the threshold quantity. For example one or more rules may indicate that Advil may be used in place of Tylenol. Accordingly if a medicinal container including Advil is removed from the pharmaceutical item storage unit and the total number of Advil in the pharmaceutical item storage unit does not satisfy the threshold quantity of Advil the label reading station can determine whether or not the number of Tylenol in the pharmaceutical item storage unit satisfies the threshold quantity of Advil. Based upon a determination that the quantity of Tylenol in the pharmaceutical item storage unit satisfies the threshold quantity of Advil the label reading station can determine that the pharmaceutical item storage unit stores a threshold quantity of Advil. However in embodiments in which the label reading station determines that the pharmaceutical item storage unit does not store a threshold quantity of Advil or Tylenol the label reading station can generate the restocking notification as illustrated at block . The restocking notification can include an email notification text message voicemail page or other visual and or audible indication etc. to enable a user to identify the location of the pharmaceutical item storage unit and medication that is to be replaced.

It will be understood that fewer more or different blocks can be used as part of routine . For example the routine can omit block such that the second medicinal container is not associated with a particular medical patient. Such an association can be reserved for a different time such as when the second label is read by a label reading station that is in close proximity to the patient for example when the label reading station is located in an operating room or in the patient s room .

Similarly in some embodiments the routine can omit blocks and . In certain embodiments the label reading station can determine the second unique identifier of the second RFID tag as it is printing the medication data onto the second label. For example in some embodiments the label reading station can include a printer that can print RFID tags. In such embodiments as the label reading station is printing the medication data onto the second label it can also print the RFID tag. Accordingly it can determine and or know the second unique identifier as it is being printed and does not query the RFID tag to receive the second unique identifier.

In some embodiments the routine can be used when multiple medications are being combined into a child medicinal container or multiple parent medications are used to create a child medication. In such embodiments the routine can include additional blocks for querying multiple RFID tags associated with the parent medications that are to be combined and receiving the unique identifiers for each parent medication. In such embodiments the routine can furthermore verify the status of each parent medication and generate a second expiration date based on the expiration dates of all of the parent medications. In such embodiments the routine can print child medication data that includes information regarding all of the parent medications that have been used to form the child medication.

Furthermore routine can include one or more blocks for tracking the inventory of a medical care provider tracking administration of a medication to a patient displaying information regarding patients associated with a particular medical care provider and or tracking waste as described in greater detail above with reference to . For example as part of the administration process the label reading station can receive a unique identifier associated with a medication verify the status of the medication associate the medication with a particular patient determine whether the particular patient is allergic to the medication or will have any adverse effects when combined with other medications that the particular patient has received identify discrepancies between an initial amount of the medication in a medicinal container and the amount of the medication administered to the patient calculate an amount of the medication to waste and or track the waste of the medication that was not administered to the patient.

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the elements outlined for routine can be implemented by one or many computing devices components that are associated with the environment including but not limited to the label reading station the information processing system and or the electronic medical records database or any combination thereof. For simplicity routine has been associated as being generally performed by the label reading station and thus the following illustrative embodiments should not be construed as limiting.

At block the label reading station queries a first label. The first label can include a first RFID tag or other machine readable tag such as a barcode or QR code. To query the first label the label reading station can emit an electromagnetic wave that activates an RFID tag of the first label or causes the RFID tag to emit a response capture an image of a barcode or QR code and or use a laser scanner that can read a barcode or QR code.

At block the label reading station receives a first unique identifier from the first label. As mentioned previously each label can include a unique identifier that uniquely identifies that label from all other labels that are tracked by the information processing system . In this way each medicinal container associated with the first label can be uniquely identified. As mentioned previously the information processing system can include a database entry for each unique identifier.

At block the label reading station can verify the status of the medication using the data associated with the first unique identifier as described in greater detail above with reference to block of .

At block the label reading station associates the first label with a medical care provider. To associate the first label with the medical care provider the label reading station can identify the medical care provider that has logged into or scanned their badge prior to querying the first label. The label reading station can then associate the first unique identifier of the first label with a unique identifier of the medical care provider in the data storage device of the information processing system . As part of the association an entry can be added to the information associated with the first unique identifier of the first label indicating that the medical care provider has accessed taken control of is in possession of and or has used the medicinal container associated with the first unique identifier.

At block the label reading station can print medication data on a second label having a second unique identifier. In some embodiments the second label can include an RFID tag that includes the second unique identifier. In certain embodiments the second label can include a barcode or QR code that includes the second unique identifier. The RFID tag barcode and or QR code can be form part of the label prior to printing the medication data or can be printed onto the label with the medication data. In some embodiments the label reading station can embed some or all of the medication data into the RFID tag barcode and or QR code.

The medication data can include the name of the medication the expiration of the medication the concentration of the medication and or the total volume of the medication in the medicinal container. In addition to the medication data the label reading station can print information regarding the transfer of the medication including the date and time of the transfer and the identification of the user that caused the printing to occur. In some embodiments the label reading station can print the medication data and other data onto the labels described previously with respect to .

At block the label reading station queries the second label. As described previously with respect to block the label reading station can query the second label using electromagnetic waves an image capture and or a laser scanner. In some embodiments the label reading station can query the second label during the printing of the medication data on to the second label. In certain embodiments the label reading station can query the second label after printing the medication data onto the second label. In such embodiments following the printing of the medication data on the second label a user can tap or move the label onto or in close proximity to the label reading station scan the label or capture an image of the label using the label reading station .

At block the label reading station receives the second unique identifier from the second label. As mentioned previously this second unique identifier can be associated with or used to generate a new database entry for the data for the child medication or child medicinal container. The database entry can include information similar to the database entry described previously.

At block the label reading station can associate the child medication and or child medicinal container using the second unique identifier with a medical patient. For example similar to the manner in which the label reading station associates the child medication and or child medicinal container with the medical care provider the label reading station can associate the child medication and or child medicinal container with the medical patient. For example the second unique identifier can be associated with the medical patient indicating that the contents of the child medicinal container are or the child medication is to be used for the medical patient.

It will be understood that fewer more or different blocks can be used as part of routine . For example in some embodiments the routine can include any one or any combination of the blocks described above with respect to routines or . In certain embodiments the routine can omit blocks and . In some embodiments the label reading station can determine the second unique identifier of the second label as it is printing the medication data onto the second label. For example in some embodiments the label reading station can include a printer that can print RFID tags barcodes and or QR codes. In such embodiments as the label reading station is printing the medication data onto the second label it can also print the RFID tag barcode and or QR code. Accordingly it can determine and or know the second unique identifier as it is being printed and does not query the RFID tag to receive the second unique identifier.

As described above with respect to routine it will be understood that routine can be used when multiple parent medications are being combined to create a child medication and or can include one or more blocks for tracking the inventory of a medical care provider tracking administration of a medication to a patient displaying information regarding patients associated with a particular medical care provider and or tracking waste as described in greater detail above with reference to and C and .

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the elements outlined for routine can be implemented by one or many computing devices components that are associated with the environment including but not limited to the label reading station the information processing system and or the electronic medical records database or any combination thereof. For simplicity routine has been associated as being generally performed by the label reading station and thus the following illustrative embodiments should not be construed as limiting.

At block the label reading station queries a label. The label can include a RFID tag or other machine readable tag such as a barcode or QR code. To query the label the label reading station can emit an electromagnetic wave that activates an RFID tag of the label or causes the RFID tag to emit a response capture an image of a barcode or QR code and or use a laser scanner that can read a barcode or QR code.

At block the label reading station receives a unique identifier from the label. As mentioned previously each label can include a unique identifier that uniquely identifies that label from all other labels that are tracked by the information processing system . In this way each medicinal container associated with the label can be uniquely identified. As mentioned previously the information processing system can include a database entry for each unique identifier.

At block the label reading station can verify the status of the medication using the data associated with the unique identifier as described in greater detail above with reference to block of .

At block the label reading station associates the label with a medical care provider. To associate the label with the medical care provider the label reading station can identify the medical care provider that has logged into or scanned their badge prior to querying the label. The label reading station can then associate the unique identifier of the label with a unique identifier of the medical care provider in the data storage device of the information processing system . As part of the association an entry can be added to the information associated with the unique identifier of the label indicating that the medical care provider has accessed taken control of is in possession of and or has used the medicinal container associated with the unique identifier.

At block the label reading station determines that the pharmaceutical item storage unit does not store a threshold quantity of the medication and at block the label reading station generates a restocking notification as described in greater detail above with reference to blocks and of .

It will be understood that few or more or different blocks can be used as part of routine . For example in some embodiments the routine can include any one or any combination of the blocks described above with respect to routines and or . Furthermore as described above with respect to routines and it will be understood that routine can include one or more blocks for tracking the inventory of a medical care provider tracking administration of a medication to a patient displaying information regarding patients associated with a particular medical care provider and or tracking waste as described in greater detail above with reference to .

It will be understood that the methods and systems described herein can be used in other applications. For example the process of determining the second expiration date can be used in conjunction with the systems and methods described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 14 472 410 and 13 554 342 incorporated herein by reference. For example when a medication having a multiple expiration dates or a variable expiration date for example a refrigerated non refrigerated expiration date a sealed broken seal expiration date and or a vial syringe expiration date etc. such as a multi dose medication is included in a pharmacy kit the information processing system can verify the medication based on the earliest expiration date or active expiration date. In addition when an event for example breaking the seal etc. occurs that alters the expiration date of the medication the information processing system can update the medication data in the data storage device or in the RFID tag with the new expiration date.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any one of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list. Likewise the term and or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any one of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

Depending on the embodiment certain operations acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments operations acts functions or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

Systems and modules described herein may comprise software firmware hardware or any combination s of software firmware or hardware suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may reside and execute on servers workstations personal computers computerized tablets PDAs and other computing devices suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may be accessible via local memory via a network via a browser or via other means suitable for the purposes described herein. Data structures described herein may comprise computer files variables programming arrays programming structures or any electronic information storage schemes or methods or any combinations thereof suitable for the purposes described herein. User interface elements described herein may comprise elements from graphical user interfaces interactive voice response command line interfaces and other suitable interfaces.

Further the processing of the various components of the illustrated systems can be distributed across multiple machines networks and other computing resources. In addition two or more components of a system can be combined into fewer components. Various components of the illustrated systems can be implemented in one or more virtual machines rather than in dedicated computer hardware systems and or computing devices. Likewise the data storage devices shown can represent physical and or logical data storage including for example storage area networks or other distributed storage systems. Moreover in some embodiments the connections between the components shown represent possible paths of data flow rather than actual connections between hardware. While some examples of possible connections are shown any of the subset of the components shown can communicate with any other subset of components in various implementations.

Embodiments are also described above with reference to flow chart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. Each block of the flow chart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flow chart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions. Such instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer specially equipped computer e.g. comprising a high performance database server a graphics subsystem etc. or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor s of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the acts specified in the flow chart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a non transitory computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to operate in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the acts specified in the flow chart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computing device or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computing device or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the acts specified in the flow chart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further implementations of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its specific implementation while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

To reduce the number of claims certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms but the applicant contemplates the various aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 f will begin with the words means for but use of the term for in any other context is not intended to invoke treatment under 35 U.S.C. 112 f . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to pursue additional claims after filing this application in either this application or in a continuing application.

