---

title: Systems and methods for populating online applications using third party platforms
abstract: A system and method that allows an applicant to select a third party to provide data to populate a plurality of fields of a web-based form, a communication interface that receives a selection of the third party to provide data to populate the plurality of fields of the web-based form and an application server, that transmits a third-party application programming interface (API) call to the at least one selected third party; transmits data indicative of an authentication request associated with the selected third party; and receives a security token in response to a validated authentication request, the security token enabling communication between application server and the third party system via the third party API, wherein the enabled communications is based on a set of permissions, each permission associated with a specific data field in the web-based form.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602949&OS=09602949&RS=09602949
owner: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
number: 09602949
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150129
---
This application contains subject matter related to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 933 136 filed on Jan. 29 2014 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application contains subject matter related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 737 399 entitled System and Method for Synching a Financial Account with a Social Network Account filed on Dec. 14 2012 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application contains subject matter related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 566 872 filed on Dec. 11 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 914 719 entitled System and Method for Financial Transfers from a Financial Account Using social Media filed on Dec. 11 2014 the entire contents of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application contains subject matter related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 789 858 entitled System and Method for Fraud Management filed on Mar. 15 2013 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application contains subject matter related to U.S. Pat. No. 7 857 212 entitled Method and system for authorizing card account transactions by geographic region the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a system and method for populating online applications on a mobile device using data obtained from third party platforms based on authenticated communications between the applicant system and the third party system.

Online applications require a user to enter data into various fields such as name address telephone number and the like. Entering data is not only time consuming but also error prone especially when data entry occurs using a mobile device. Moreover using current auto fill methods to populate online forms requires storing the data to populate the fields on a device used to populate the online form.

According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure a system and method for populating online applications on a mobile device using data obtained from third party platforms based on authenticated communications between the applicant system and the third party system may include using an application provider system to transmit data indicative of a web based form including a link to allow an end user to select a third party to provide data to populate a plurality of fields of the web based form receive a selection of a third party to provide data to populate a plurality of fields of the web based form in response to the selection transmit a third party application programming interface API call to the selected third party transmit data indicative of an authentication request associated with the selected third party receive a security token in response to a validated authentication request the security token enabling communication between the application provider system and the third party system via the third party API wherein the enabled communications is based on a set of permissions each permission associated with a specific data field in the web based form.

The following description is intended to convey a thorough understanding of the embodiments described by providing a number of specific example embodiments and details involving system and method for populating online applications on a mobile device using data obtained from third party platforms based on authenticated communications between the applicant system and the third party system. It should be appreciated however that the present disclosure is not limited to these specific embodiments and details which are exemplary only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art in light of known systems and methods would appreciate the use of the invention for its intended purposes and benefits in any number of alternative embodiments depending on specific design and other needs. A third party system application provider system and or applicant device and system supporting a connection between third party systems application provider systems and or applicant devices are used as examples for the disclosure. The disclosure is not intended to be limited to third party systems application provider systems and or applicant devices only.

The example embodiments disclosed herein are directed to systems and methods for populating online applications using data obtained from third party platforms and the like. illustrates an example system for populating online applications using data obtained from third party platforms . According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure a system for populating online applications using data obtained from third party platforms may include a third party system an application provider system and an applicant device all connected over a network .

The network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of a wireless network and a wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Networks PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of example types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively couples. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure third party system may include for example a social media system a utility provider system a telecommunications provider system and the like. A social media system may include a system associated with a social media provider such as Facebook Twitter MySpace Foursquare Instagram Google LinkedIn and the like. A utility provider system may include an electric utility provider system a gas provider system a water provider system cable and or Internet service provider system and the like. A telecommunication s provider system may include for example a system associated with a phone company e.g. Verizon AT T Sprint T Mobile MetroPCS U.S. Cellular Cricket Virgin Mobile Boost CenturyLink Frontier Communications Comcast Charter Cox Communications Time Warner and the like a cable or satellite service provider Time Warner Dish Network Comcast Cox Communications Verizon AT T DirecTV and the like .

Each third party system may maintain in for example one or more databases subscriber accounts holding account data such as for example subscriber name subscriber phone number subscriber address subscriber occupation subscriber employment data e.g. income full time part time self employment status year s month s occupied by current employer previous employer data subscriber social security number subscriber date of birth subscriber property data e.g. whether the subscriber rents or buys monthly mortgage monthly rent and the like and or subscriber location data. Subscriber location data may include location data received from a subscriber device such as location data received via GPS stored address data subscriber submitted address data location data received using magnetic field calculations location data derived from IP address data and the like. Subscriber location data may include location data stored with the subscriber account. For example a subscriber may use a mobile application on a mobile device for example to check in to a location and the third party system associated with that check in data may store that location data and associate it with the subscriber. A subscriber may transmit location data including a mailing or billing address to the third party system for storage.

According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure an application provider system may include for example a financial institution system an employment provider system a housing provider system and the like. An application provider system may include any system that requires an applicant to fill out an application in order to apply order and or access data using the application system .

A third party may access network through one or more third party systems that may be communicatively coupled to the network . One or more application providers may access the network through one or more application provider systems that also may be communicatively coupled to the network . Additionally one or more applicants may be communicatively coupled to the network through an applicant device . Although third party system application provider system and applicant device are depicted as a single systems and or devices it should be appreciated that third party system application provider system and or applicant device may comprise a plurality of systems and or devices.

An example third party system application provider system and or applicant device may include one or more network enabled computers to process instructions for populating online applications using data obtained from third party platforms e.g. method in . As referred to herein a network enabled computer may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser or other device. The one or more network enabled computers of the example system may execute one or more software applications for using account rewards to make a charitable donation.

The third party system application provider system and or applicant device may further include for example a processor which may be several processors a single processor or a single device having multiple processors. The third party system application provider system and or applicant device may access and be communicatively coupled to the network . The third party system application provider system and or applicant device may store information in various electronic storage media such as for example a database and or other data storage not shown . Electronic information may be stored in the third party system application provider system and or applicant device in a format such as for example a flat file an indexed file a hierarchical database a post relational database a relational database such as a database created and maintained with software from for example Oracle Corporation Microsoft Excel file Microsoft Access file or any other storage mechanism.

The third party system application provider system and or applicant device may send and receive data using one or more protocols. For example data may be transmitted and received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Time Division Multiplexing TDM based systems Code Division Multiples Access CDMA based systems suitable for transmitting and receiving data. Data may be transmitted and received wirelessly or may utilize cabled network connections or telecom connections fiber connections traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection.

Each third party system application provider system and or applicant device of also may be equipped with physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software or combinations thereof. Third party system application provider system and or applicant device may be able to perform the functions associated with methods for populating online applications using data obtained from third party platforms . Third party system application provider system and or applicant device may for example house the software for methods for populating online applications using data obtained from third party platforms obviating the need for a separate device on the network to run the methods housed third party system application provider system and or applicant device .

Furthermore the information stored in a database may be available over the network with the network containing data storage. A database housed in third party system application provider system and or applicant device or the network may store or may connect to external data warehouses that stores account data current account holder data and or potential account holder data.

Applicant device also may be a mobile device For example a mobile device may include an iPhone iPod iPad from Apple or any other mobile device running Apple s iOS operating system any device running Google s Android operating system including for example Google s wearable device Google Glass any device running Microsoft s Windows Mobile operating system and or any other smartphone or like wearable mobile device. Applicant device also may include a handheld PC a phone a smartphone a PDA a tablet computer or other device. Applicant device may include device to device communication abilities such as for example RFID transmitters and receivers cameras scanners and or Near Field Communication NFC capabilities which may allow for communication with other devices by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity. Exemplary NFC standards include ISO IEC 18092 2004 which defines communication modes for Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol NFCIP 1 . For example applicant device may be configured using the Isis Mobile Wallet system which is incorporated herein by reference. Other exemplary NFC standards include those created by the NFC Forum.

Applicant device may include one or more software applications such as a communication application and or a financial institution application. A communication application may be a software application that enables applicant device to receive and display communications received from a financial institution whether or not the user device is associated with an account held at financial institution . For example a communications application may allow applicant device to securely exchange data with a financial institution over network . A financial institution application may include for example a mobile banking application which may be a software application that among other features enables applicant device to transmit and receive data associated with a financial account held with an associated financial institution. In various embodiments the mobile banking application may be a native application executing on a mobile device. The mobile banking application also may be a mobile optimized web site associated with the financial institution.

According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure a system and for populating online applications using data obtained from third party platforms may further include linking a third party account held with a third party system e.g. a social media system to an account held at an application provider system e.g. a financial institution . U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 737 399 entitled System and Method for Synching a Financial Account with a Social Network Account and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 566 872 filed on Dec. 11 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 914 719 entitled System and Method for Financial Transfers from a Financial Account Using social Media each disclose systems and methods relating to using third party systems such as social media systems to provide data to an application provider system such as a financial system the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The account provider system may include a fraud detection module that operates various fraud detection algorithms. For example a fraud detection algorithm may take into consideration a number of variables including for example sending account holder data sending subscriber data recipient account holder data recipient subscriber data time of day transfer amount and or social media preference data. Each of these variables may be user defined defined by the account provider system and or defined by the social media system. For example a subscriber may define recipients that are authorized to receive a funds transfer from the subscriber such as a listing of social media connections. In another example the account provider system may define transfer amounts where account holder may select a one of the account provider defined amounts. U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 789 858 entitled System and Method for Fraud Management discloses further fraud management methods the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Additionally U.S. Pat. No. 7 857 212 entitled Method and system for authorizing card account transactions by geographic region discloses fraud prevention using authorizations by geographic region the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Referring to which depicts an example system that may enable a financial institution for example to provide network services to its customers. For example system may enable an applicant device e.g. applicant device to interact with an application provider system e.g. application provider system . System also may enable an application provider system e.g. application provider system to interact with a third party system e.g. third party system . Financial institution system components of may be components of application provider system . As shown in system may include an applicant device a network a front end controlled domain a back end controlled domain and a backend . Front end controlled domain may include one or more load balancers and one or more web servers . Back end controlled domain may include one or more load balancers and one or more application servers .

Applicant device may be a network enabled computer similar to applicant device As referred to herein a network enabled computer may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser or other device. The one or more network enabled computers of the example system may execute one or more software applications to enable for example network communications.

Applicant device also may be a mobile device For example a mobile device may include an iPhone iPod iPad from Apple or any other mobile device running Apple s iOS operating system any device running Google s Android operating system including for example Google s wearable device Google Glass any device running Microsoft s Windows Mobile operating system and or any other smartphone or like wearable mobile device.

Network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of a wireless network and a wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Networks PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of example types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively couples. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

Front end controlled domain may be implemented to provide security for backend . Load balancer s may distribute workloads across multiple computing resources such as for example computers a computer cluster network links central processing units or disk drives. In various embodiments load balancer s may distribute workloads across for example web server S and or backend systems. Load balancing aims to optimize resource use maximize throughput minimize response time and avoid overload of any one of the resources. Using multiple components with load balancing instead of a single component may increase reliability through redundancy. Load balancing is usually provided by dedicated software or hardware such as a multilayer switch or a Domain Name System DNS server process.

Load balancer s may include software that monitoring the port where external clients such as for example applicant device connect to access various services of a financial institution for example. Load balancer s may forward requests to one of the application servers and or backend servers which may then reply to load balancer . This may allow load balancer s to reply to applicant device without applicant device ever knowing about the internal separation of functions. It also may prevent applicant devices from contacting backend servers directly which may have security benefits by hiding the structure of the internal network and preventing attacks on backend or unrelated services running on other ports for example.

A variety of scheduling algorithms may be used by load balancer s to determine which backend server to send a request to. Simple algorithms may include for example random choice or round robin. Load balancers also may account for additional factors such as a server s reported load recent response times up down status determined by a monitoring poll of some kind number of active connections geographic location capabilities or how much traffic it has recently been assigned.

Load balancers may be implemented in hardware and or software. Load balancer s may implement numerous features including without limitation asymmetric loading Priority activation SSL Offload and Acceleration Distributed Denial of Service DDoS attack protection HTTP compression TCP offloading TCP buffering direct server return health checking HTTP caching content filtering HTTP security priority queuing rate shaping content aware switching client authentication programmatic traffic manipulation firewall intrusion prevention systems.

Web server s may include hardware e.g. one or more computers and or software e.g. one or more applications that deliver web content that can be accessed by for example a client device e.g. applicant device through a network e.g. network such as the Internet. In various examples web servers may deliver web pages relating to for example online banking applications and the like to clients e.g. applicant device . Web server s may use for example a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or sHTTP to communicate with applicant device . The web pages delivered to client device may include for example HTML documents which may include images style sheets and scripts in addition to text content.

A user agent such as for example a web browser web crawler or native mobile application may initiate communication by making a request for a specific resource using HTTP and web server may respond with the content of that resource or an error message if unable to do so. The resource may be for example a file on stored on backend . Web server s also may enable or facilitate receiving content from applicant device so applicant device may be able to for example submit web forms including uploading of files.

Web server s also may support server side scripting using for example Active Server Pages ASP PHP or other scripting languages. Accordingly the behavior of web server s can be scripted in separate files while the actual server software remains unchanged.

Application server s may include hardware and or software dedicated to the efficient execution of procedures e.g. programs routines scripts for supporting its applied applications. Application server s may comprise one or more application server frameworks including for example Java application servers e.g. Java platform Enterprise Edition Java EE the .NET framework from Microsoft PHP application servers and the like . The various application server frameworks may contain a comprehensive service layer model. Also application server s may act as a set of components accessible to for example a financial institution or other entity implementing system through an API defined by the platform itself. For Web applications these components may be performed in for example the same running environment as web server s and application servers may support the construction of dynamic pages. Application server s also may implement services such as for example clustering fail over and load balancing. In various embodiments where application server s are Java application servers the web server s may behaves like an extended virtual machine for running applications transparently handling connections to databases associated with backend on one side and connections to the Web client e.g. applicant device on the other.

Backend may include hardware and or software that enable the backend services of for example a financial institution or other entity that maintains a distributed system similar to system . For example backend may include a system of record online banking applications a rewards platform a payments platform a lending platform including the various services associated with for example auto and home lending platforms a statement processing platform one or more platforms that provide mobile services one or more platforms that provide online services a card provisioning platform a general ledger system and the like. Backend may be associated with various databases including account databases that maintain for example customer account information product databases that maintain information about products and services available to customers content databases that store content associated with for example a financial institution and the like. Backend also may be associated with one or more servers that enable the various services provided by system . Backend also may be associated with an application provider system e.g. application provider system and or a third party system e.g. third party system .

Third party system may include an input output module and a privacy module . The input output module may include various hardware and software components such as for example a repeater a microwave antenna a cellular tower or another network access device capable of providing connectivity between network mediums. The input output module may be capable of sending or receiving signals via network . Moreover the input output module may provide connectivity to one or more wired networks and may be capable of receiving signals on one medium such as a wired network and transmitting the received signals on a second medium such as a wireless network.

Privacy module may include various hardware and software components such as for example data storage and at least one processor capable of providing privacy features associated with a third party system . Privacy module also may provide functionality associated with requiring approval for data sharing features available using third party system so that only approved data is made available via third party system . For example privacy module may provide the functionality to allow a third party user to select and pre approve the sharing of certain data held within data fields of the third party system e.g. name address phone number e mail address and the like .

Transfer module may include various hardware and software components such as for example data storage and at least one processor capable of facilitating the transfer of data from third party system to application provider system . For example transfer module may receive an authentication request provide authentication e.g. as described herein and generate and transmit a security token in order to communicate with an application provider system . The transfer module may utilize for example a third party linking API to contact an application provider system and enable communications between the third party system and application provider system .

Third party linking API may allow certain data to be transmitted through the API so that a third party system may communicate with an application provider system . For example API may allow communications using an agreed upon protocol and specifications such as for example XML based communication JSON based communications and the like.

The third party linking API may prevent data other than approved data to be transmitted through the API . For example the API may support transmission of only the subscriber name subscriber e mail address and the like to be transmitted from the third party system to the application provider system .

A third party linking API may provide encryption and filtering functionality to prevent for example identity theft and fraudulent transmission of data. For example the third party linking API may filter out information that is unnecessary to carry out the claimed methods. A third party inking API may also encrypt for example identification information to ensure that any data passed between the systems is secure during transmission and storage.

Application provider system may include an input output module a fraud module a transfer module and a confirmation module . The input output module may include various hardware and software components such as for example a repeater a microwave antenna a cellular tower or another network access device capable of providing connectivity between network mediums. The input output module may be capable of sending or receiving signals via network . Moreover the input output module may provide connectivity to one or more wired networks and may be capable of receiving signals on one medium such as a wired network and transmitting the received signals on a second medium such as a wireless network.

Fraud module may include various hardware and software components including data storage and at least one processor to detect any fraudulent received data. Fraud module may access a third party linking API in order to request and or receive data from third party system . For example fraud module may request applicant data from a third party system related to an application. Application provider systems are not required to store third party data but instead may access third party data once authorized via a secure token to do so. Fraud module may perform a fraud analysis using fraud detection algorithms. For example fraud detection algorithms may take into consideration a fraud rating associated with any application data received from third party system . For example where a received name social security number phone number or other data indicates that the applicant has previous or pending fraud charges again his or her fraud module may transmit an alert to the application provider system and the applicant may be required to contact the application provider before continuing.

Transfer module may include various hardware and software components such as data storage and at least one processor to facilitate the transfer of data from a third party system to an application provider system using a social linking API . For example transfer module may transmit a request obtain data from an applicant using an applicant device to third party system . This request may be transmitted via network to third party system via a social linking API . Third party system may transmit an authentication request e.g. an authentication window to the applicant device in response to receiving the request. Once authenticated the third party system may transmit a security token to the application provider system to allow the transfer of data between the third party system and the application provider system using the transfer module . Transfer module may extract transform and or load the data received from the third party system to incorporate the received data into an application housed at the application provider system .

Application module may include various hardware and software components to perform methods for preparing and or processing an application. Application module may store partially finished application process applications and or submit applications as described herein.

At block the application provider system may transmit an API call or similar signal to the selected third party system using a third party API for example. In this manner the third party may control what information may be requested and or transmitted using the third party API. The third party system associated with the selected third party may then transmit an authentication request to the applicant at block . The third party system may transmit the authentication request through the application provider. An authentication request may for example request that an applicant log into an account associated with the selected third party provide a username provide a password answer security questions and or provide biometric data for authentication. The third party system may include a notification and or the opportunity for an applicant to select data stored at the third party system to be shared to the application provider system.

Once an applicant is authenticated the selected third party system may transmit a security token to the application provider system in block . Once an application provider system receives security token data the application provider system may be able to communicate with the third party system in order to receive data from the third party system. The application provider system may request certain data fields e.g. name address phone number e mail address and the like in order to populate an application for the applicant. As another example the applicant device may transmit a request for a specific field such as a location to be populated to the application provider system. Accordingly the application provider system may transmit a request to populate a specific field with data from the third party system.

In response to any request for data the third party system may transmit permitted data to the application provider system via an API. Permitted data may include for example data fields associated with the data fields provided in a notification and or data selected by the applicant when the applicant authenticated himself or herself. In this manner a specific set of data may be transmitted from the third party system to the application provider system. Moreover the third party system and or the applicant may decide what data may be included in the specific set of data shared.

In block the application provider system may receive data from the third party system. It should be noted that all communications between the third party system and the application provider system may be transmitted using a third party linking API. In block one the application provider system receives data from the third party system relating to the application the application provider system may populate an application for the applicant using the received data. The method may end at block .

Once each field in the application is filled either by the methods described herein using data received from a third party system and or applicant device or manually by the applicant using an applicant device the application may be submitted using the application provider system. Once submitted the application may be approved or denied. Where an applicant does not complete an application and exits the application process the application provider system and or the third party system may store application specific data and associate the application specific data with the applicant. For example the application provider system and or the third party system may store either locally or remotely application data associated with fields of the application that were previously entered using the systems and methods described herein. When an applicant using an applicant device desires to complete the application the applicant may log into the application provider system and or third party system using log in credentials that may be authenticated as described herein. Upon submitting the appropriate log in credentials the application provider system and or third party system may transmit data indicative of previously entered application data e.g. name address phone number and the like to the applicant device where it may be displayed as an application. Additionally where an applicant has an incomplete application stored with an application provider system and or a third party system the application provider system and or third party system may transmit data indicative of an alert to the applicant device. An alert may include application data such as application type application number application name application status application date and the like. The alert may also include a link to direct the applicant using the applicant device to the stored application in order to complete the application process.

As illustrated in a user may request for a specific field to be populated e.g. address data using the Use Current Location link . For example address data may be received from the third party system and or the applicant device. When address data is received from an applicant device the application provider system may transmit a request to the applicant device where the request is a request for location data. An applicant device may transmit a response including location data obtained via GPS magnetic field data IP address data saved location data and or other data indicative of location. As an example where a third party system has not populated a field data may be transmitted from the application provider system indicative of a link where the link allows the applicant to select for the applicant device to provide the specific data. The specific data may be pre stored in an applicant device such as a telephone number address name birthdate e mail address and the like. Accordingly the application provider system may populate fields with data received from a third party system and or an applicant device.

When address data is received from a third party system the application provider system may transmit a request to the third party system via the API where the request is a request for as an example location data. A request may be for any data required for an application that may be stored in the applicant device. A third party system may then transmit a request to the applicant device for location data similar to the application provider system transmitting a request to the applicant device and the response may be relayed back to the application provider system through the third party system via the API. A third party system also may respond to an application provider request for location data with stored location data associated with the application. For example the third party may have recent location data stored from when a user has for example checked in at a location when the application subscriber agrees to have the third party system pull location data at regular intervals from the applicant device and or when the applicant subscriber provides location data to the third party system in any other manner. Accordingly a specific field such as a location and or address field may be populated using the system .

It should be appreciated that the foregoing discussion related to is illustrative only and that the various embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented by any other appropriate system or method.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

