---

title: Detecting and reporting a vehicle of interest
abstract: Discussed are various systems, computer-readable mediums, and methods for determining a vehicle is of interest, referred to as a targeted vehicle, based on an image capture of the car. A user may position a mobile computing device on the dash of his or her vehicle. While the user is driving, the mobile computing device may collect image frames of other vehicles and transmit them to a remote server. The remote server may identify a vehicle as a targeted vehicle and notify one or more users of the identification including details regarding why the vehicle is targeted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363357&OS=09363357&RS=09363357
owner: Mirsani, LLC
number: 09363357
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150427
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 984 366 filed Apr. 25 2014 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 076 690 filed Nov. 7 2014. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 191 743 entitled DETECTING AND REPORTING IMPROPER ACTIVITY INVOLVING A VEHICLE filed on Feb. 27 2014. The complete disclosure of each of the foregoing priority and related applications are hereby fully incorporated herein by reference.

To locate a vehicle of interest the police may add the vehicle to an All points bulletin APB . The APB is broadcast to law enforcement agencies including a description of the vehicle so that police may be on the lookout. When a police officer sees the described vehicle the officer may pull over the vehicle for further investigation.

The present disclosure describes various systems and methods for determining if a vehicle is of interest referred to as a targeted vehicle based on a captured image of the car via a mobile computing device such as a cellular phone or smartphone. As a non limiting example a user may position a cellular phone on the dash of his or her vehicle in contrast to typical license plate recognition LPR which is performed by expensive customized hardware. While the user is driving the cellular phone may collect image frames of other vehicles. The cellular phone may perform image processing operations on the image frames to identify one or more vehicles. The cellular phone may identify a representation of a vehicle s license plate in an image frame and transmit the image frame to a target identification application executed in a computing environment for processing. The target identification application may perform image recognition on the representation of the vehicle s license plate in the image frame to determine a corresponding license plate of the vehicle and the target identification application may compare the license plate number to a list of targeted license plates. A license plate number may comprise letters numbers and or symbols among other known characters. If the license plate number matches one of the targeted license plates the target identification application may initiate an action. In alternative embodiments the user may indicate that a license plate is visible in an image frame by selecting a button speaking a voice command making a hand gesture or providing some other type of indication. In response to detecting a representation of a license plate in at least one image frame the cellular phone may transmit the at least one image frame and potentially other data to the target identification application. In some embodiments the user device application executing on the cellular phone may extract the identified representation of the license plate and transmit the representation of the license plate rather than the entire image frame.

In some embodiments the target identification application may obtain a list of targeted license plate numbers from a database. The target identification application may obtain an image from a cellular phone and identify a license plate number represented in the image. The target identification application may determine that the license plate number is represented in the list of targeted license plate numbers obtained from the database and initiate an action in response to determining that the license plate number is represented in the list of targeted license plate numbers. In some embodiments the target identification application may detect a region of the image that represents a license plate detect one or more license plate characters represented within the region of the image that represents the license plate and identify the one or more license plate characters. The target identification application may compare the one or more license plate characters with the list of targeted license plate numbers to determine that the license plate number is represented in the list of targeted license plate numbers.

The target identification application may use approximate string matching to compare the license plate characters with the list of targeted license plate numbers. The image may comprise a photograph and or a frame of a video. In some embodiments each of the targeted license plate numbers is associated with an alleged crime an alleged traffic infraction an arrest warrant and or a reported suspicious activity. The database may comprise a third party database that operates on a computing device such as targeted vehicle records device and the third party database may comprises a government database such as a targeted license plates data store. The target identification application may generate a first link corresponding to the image. The target identification application may also generate a second link corresponding to a map comprising an indication of a location associated with the image. In some embodiments the target identification application initiates the action of transmitting a notification including the first link and the second link to a mobile computing device such as a cellular phone. The terms image frame image frame of a video and photograph may be used interchangeably herein.

In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment shown in includes a computing environment a mobile device a targeted vehicle records device and or other devices in data communication via a network . The network may include for example the Internet one or more intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks telephone networks satellite networks other suitable networks and or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the computing environment may include multiple computing devices that are arranged for example in one or more server banks computer banks or other types of arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may form a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations.

Various systems and functionality may be executed in the computing environment . For example the computing environment may provide and execute a target identification application and or other types of systems and or functionality. The target identification application may receive data comprising one or more images from a user device and detect a representation of a license plate number within the one or more images. The target identification application may recognize the characters of the detected representation of the license plate within the one or more images to determine a license plate number of one or more vehicles represented in the one or more images. The target identification application may query a data store to find one of the targeted license plates with a license plate that matches the determined license plate number. In some embodiments the target identification application may obtain and store targeted license plates from third parties such as from targeted vehicle records devices in data store on a periodic basis. The target identification application may also query an external data source such as a targeted vehicle records device . The target identification application may also identify the license plate number as one of the targeted license plates . A vehicle having a targeted license plate is a targeted vehicle. A vehicle being a targeted vehicle may be an indication that the driver of the vehicle may have committed an improper activity. The improper activity may or may not be civil and or criminal activity such as a traffic violation. As non limiting examples the improper activity or unlawful activity may be abducting a child stealing from a bank having an outstanding arrest warrant being accused of committing a crime committing a traffic infraction being reported as a person committing suspicious activity and or committing any other type of improper activity.

Various data is stored in one or more data stores that are accessible to the computing environment . The data store may include one or more targeted license plates one or more detected vehicle records and or other data. The targeted license plates may represent license plates identified as being suspicious of an activity or identified as of interest. For example if a person reported a child being abducted by an individual driving a car having the license plate XYZABC the targeted license plates may have a record with a license plate being set to XYZABC and targeted details being set to Child Abduction. The data in targeted license plates or may be reported by witnesses of a suspicious activity and or entered by government employees. The detected vehicles may represent vehicles that have been identified in one or more images as being targeted. For example if a vehicle is detected in an image with a license plate number as XYZABC and the target identification application identifies the vehicle as being a targeted the targeted identification application may store an entry in detected vehicles including a license plate set to XYZABC sensor data set to the data from one or more sensors such as the GPS location of the vehicle when the image was captured and timestamp set to the time when the image was taken.

The mobile device is representative of multiple client computing devices that may be coupled to the network and operated by users who in some embodiments are police officers. The mobile device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a mobile device such as a cellular telephone a music player a tablet computer system a web pad a wearable computing device a personal digital assistant a laptop computer or any type of mobile device. Alternatively the mobile device may be embodied in the form of a stationary computing device such as a desktop computer a security system for a building or any other type of stationary computing device.

The mobile device may be in communication with one or more image capture devices a mobile device display and one or more sensors . The mobile device may execute a mobile device application and or other types of applications. The mobile device application may be executed to capture data such as images video direction the mobile device is facing speed force ambient light and or GPS locations via image capture device and sensors . The direction the mobile device is facing may include North South West East a combination of directions or a degree offset from a direction such as 33 degrees from North among other methods of measuring the facing of a mobile device. The mobile device application may also detect whether a vehicle and or a vehicle license plate is located within a frame of the image capture device . In some embodiments the vehicle license plate may be located within the frame of the image capture device when a user of the mobile computing device is driving behind the vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate. To this end the mobile device application may detect a representation of a license plate in an image frame and recognize characters of a license plate number represented in the image frame. Because the mobile device may have a slower processing speed and less memory than that which is available to the computing environment the data processing by the mobile device application may be less rigorous than the data processing by the computing environment . Additionally or alternatively the mobile device application may be configured to receive a user input that indicates that the user believes that a vehicle with a license plate is located in a position such that the license plate is framed within a frame of the image capture device . Such an input may be for example a button being selected a voice command a gesture by the user and or any other type of input. The image capture device is configured to receive light which is then converted into image frames such as a photograph or a video. In some embodiments the image frames may form a video sequence.

The sensors may include for example a global positioning system GPS receiver an accelerometer a microphone and or any other type of component to that may provide data. The microphone may be used by the mobile device application to indicate that a vehicle with a license plate is located within a frame of the image capturing device . For example a user may speak a voice command that is received by the microphone and recognized by the mobile device application as an indication to capture an image via image capture device .

The GPS receiver may receive GPS satellite signals and provide location data that represents the geographic location of the mobile device . This location data may be transmitted to the target identification application via network so that the geographical location may be identified of the user device when an image frame was captured of a vehicle.

The mobile device display may comprise one or more liquid crystal displays LCDs cathode ray tube CRT displays plasma displays and or any other type of display that provides visual renderings of data. For example the mobile device display may render one or more user interfaces that facilitate a user interacting with and controlling the mobile device .

The targeted vehicle records device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. In some embodiments the targeted vehicle records device may include multiple computing devices that are arranged in one or more server banks computer banks or other types of arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. The targeted vehicle records device may be operated by a government agency such as a Department of Motor Vehicles or GOVCLOUD. Alternatively the targeted vehicle records device may be operated by a private entity that has collection information for vehicles. Alternatively the targeted vehicle records device may store data transferred from other databases such as a database from a Department of Motor Vehicles the FBI the CIA or a police database.

The vehicle records device may include one or more vehicle records data stores . The vehicle records data stores may include vehicle data that represents various information regarding vehicles. For example each entry of vehicle data may include a license plate number and targeted description and or other types of data.

The license plate number may be used to identify a particular vehicle among other vehicles. The targeted description may identify a reason the vehicle is targeted. The targeted description may include for example the name and address of the owner the name and address of an individual known to associate with the owner one or more crimes the owner is accused of one or more crimes an individual known to associate with the owner may be accused of information regarding a theft of the vehicle one or more suspicious activities related to the vehicle such as an abduction of a child or an accident involving the vehicle and or various other activities The characteristics may identify various features of a particular vehicle. For example the characteristics may represent the make and or model of a vehicle the color of the vehicle and or any other information regarding the vehicle.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a user may register to participate with the target identification application and install the mobile device application on his or her mobile device . After the mobile device application has been installed on the mobile device the mobile device application can be executed.

The user may position the mobile device in a way that facilitates the collection of data using the image capture device and or one or more of the sensors . In one embodiment the mobile device may be mounted on the dash of a vehicle so that other vehicles may be within the field of view of the image capture device while the user is driving. For example the mobile device may be positioned so that vehicles that are in front of the vehicle of the user may be within the field of view of the image capture device . As another example the user may for example hold mobile device while walking on foot and position the image capture device to view vehicles parked in a parking lot. As yet another example the user may walk down a side walk and position the user device so that a vehicle parked at a stop light is within the field of view of the image capture device . As another example a user may temporarily leave the mobile device at a location to autonomously collect data even in his or her absence.

The mobile device application may then collect data such as image frames location data accelerometer data sound and or other types of information using the image capture device and or the sensors . Since the collected data may be used to justify a traffic stop or even arrest or detain a suspect the mobile device application may store the collected data in a memory to which the user is restricted access for example random access memory RAM . In this way the mobile device application may prevent the user from altering the collected data. In some embodiments the mobile device application may use a cyclic buffer in which newly collected data is written over the oldest collected data.

While data is being collected the mobile device application may detect a vehicle and or vehicle license plate in various ways. In one embodiment the user of the mobile device may provide an input to indicate that a license plate is located within a frame of the image capture device . For example the user may select a button speak a voice command or make a hand gesture that the mobile device application recognizes as an indication that improper activity has occurred.

Upon detecting that a representation of a vehicle or license plate is in at least one image frame or upon recognizing a vehicle license plate number represented in at least one image frame the mobile device application may transmit the at least one image frame any sensor data from sensors and if known the license plate number represented in the at least one image frame. In addition the mobile device application may prevent at least a portion of the data collected prior to the time when the vehicle was detected from being discarded. Additionally the mobile device application may continue to collect data subsequent to the time when the vehicle was detected.

The mobile device may transmit at least a portion of the data collected prior to and subsequent to the time when the vehicle was detected. Additionally the mobile device may transmit information such as the identity of the user of the mobile device the time when the vehicle was detected the location of the mobile device when the vehicle was detected and or any other information that may be useful for the target identification application . In some embodiments the mobile device application may wait to transmit the data to the target identification application until the mobile device application has joined a particular type of network such as a local area network. By waiting to transmit the data until connected to such a network the mobile device application may avoid transmitting data using a cellular data network that may be relatively expensive and or have relatively low bandwidth for the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device application may wait to transmit the data to the target identification application until the mobile device application has internet connectivity such as a wireless 4G or 3G signal. By transmitting the data when a connection becomes available the target identification application may determine a location and time associated with the presence of a targeted vehicle.

As a non limiting example a vehicle associated with a criminal on the FBI watch list may be detected in Cleveland Ohio when a police officer s mobile device did not have network connectivity. The police officer s mobile device could store the information and transmit it to target identification application at a later time such as four hours later. The target identification application could initiate an action of notifying the FBI of the vehicle s location in Cleveland Ohio as well as the time the vehicle was recognized once the mobile device establishes internet connectivity. In some embodiments the action may include identify the location of one or more law enforcement individuals for example by requesting a location from one or more a mobile devices owned by the one or more law enforcement individuals. The action may also comprise identifying the law enforcement individuals that are proximate to where image frame was taken and transmit a notification to the identified law enforcement individuals indicating the location of the image frame and the targeted details and or .

The mobile device application may provide an authentication mechanism for at least a portion of the data that is transmitted to the target identification application . For example the mobile device application may apply a hash function to at least a portion of the collected data. The hash value that is output when the hash function is applied may be transmitted to the target identification application and used by the target identification application to detect whether the collected data has been tampered with or manipulated as will be described below. In some embodiments the mobile device application communicates to the target identification application utilizing a security protocol such as SSL. For example the user device application and or target identification application may obtain a private and a public key signed from a trusted certificate authority. The user device application and or target identification application may require a valid signed public key signed by a trusted certificate authority before accepting communications from the other application. The mobile device application may also encrypt at least a portion of the data that is transmitted to the target identification application . The target identification application may also encrypt at least a portion of the data that is transmitted to the mobile device application . Encrypting the data may prevent unauthorized devices from accessing the content that is transmitted by the mobile device and or the computing environment .

After the target identification application receives collected data from the mobile device the target identification application may begin processing the data. First the target identification application may decrypt the data using the appropriate key. If the mobile device application provided a hash value with the data the target identification application may apply the hash function to at least a portion of the received data. If the hash value that results from the hash function matches the hash value that was provided by the mobile device application the target identification application may determine that the received data has not been tampered with or manipulated. If the hash values do not match the target identification application may determine that the received data has been manipulated and is not suitable for further processing. The target identification application may discard the data if a hash fails or a decryption fails and inform the mobile device application of the failure.

The target identification application may initiate the process of detecting whether the image frames collected by the mobile device show a representation of a vehicle. In some embodiments the target identification application may render the image frames for manual review by one or more trained technicians. For example the target identification application may render video images and or any other content that was provided by the mobile device . The technician may then type in a license plate number identified in the image frames.

In various embodiments the target identification application may process one or more image frames by finding a representation of a license plate in the one or more image frames segmenting the representation of the license plate into one or more images of characters and performing optically character recognition OCR on each of the one or more images of characters to identify or generate a license plate number. In some embodiments the software determines a confidence score for each of the one or more images of characters corresponding to how certain the identified character is represented in the image of a character. In some embodiments the target identification application may perform the OCR by using an artificial neural network. The target identification application may compare the identified license plate number to a hotlist of targeted license plates such as those stored in targeted license plates data store and data store .

The target identification application may compare using a fuzzy compare such as approximate string matching. In some embodiments the target identification application may perform the fuzzy compare based on the confidence score. For example the target identification application may insert one or more wild cards in for one or more character that has a low confidence score. In the event that the identified license plate number is not found on one or more hotlists the target identification application may initiate an action such as transmitting a notification to the mobile device or sending a message to mobile device application . For example the mobile device application may be configured to securely store information such as image frames of a vehicle and the target identification application may send a message configured to cause the mobile device application to discard the data corresponding to one or more image frame transmissions based on a determination that an identified license plate number is not on a hotlist.

The target identification application may identify the identified license plate number as being a targeted license plate and initiate an action in response to the identification. For example the target identification application may transmit a message via SMS APPLE IMESSAGE GOOGLE HANGOUTS BBM or other messaging services to one or more user devices . The message may include information regarding the targeted vehicle such as the information stored in targeted details and and or information captured during the image capture from the sensors such as GPS information or time the vehicle was identified. The message may also include one or more links to a webpage comprising further information. The target identification application may generate a link corresponding to a map for example Google Maps from which the image frame of the vehicle was captured. The map may include an indicator illustrating the location and direction of travel of the vehicle when image frame was captured. The target identification application may generate a link corresponding to a webpage comprising the one or more image frames such as a web page comprising a photograph of the vehicle.

With reference to shown is a drawing of an example of a user interface that may be generated by the mobile device application and rendered for display in the user device display . For the embodiment shown in the mobile device has been mounted on the dash of a vehicle and positioned so that the image capture device generated image frames showing another vehicle that is in front of the vehicle of the user.

The user interface includes a rendering of an image frame that was generated by the image capture device . The user interface may also show a live stream of images from the image capture device . The image frame shows the vehicle with a license plate . Upon detection of the vehicle the mobile device application may capture one or more image frames and transmit the one or more image frames to the target identification application via network . After transmitting the one or more captured image frames the mobile device application may continue to capture new image frames of the vehicle when available and transmit the new image frames to the target identification application may capture one or more images of newly identified vehicles if available and transmit them to target identification application and or may continue showing the one or more image frames of the vehicle. The user interface may include additional information overlaid over the image or live capture of the image capture device such as direction of travel speed speed of the vehicle in front of the user.

With reference to shown is an example of a user interface that may be generated by the mobile device application and rendered for display in the user device display . It is noted that one or more of the elements shown in the individual user interface may be omitted in some embodiments.

The individual user interface shown in includes renderings of an image frame or live stream detected information and an edit button . The image frame comprises a representation of a vehicle an enlargement of a license plate and one or more control buttons . The control buttons may facilitate an enforcement individual such as a law enforcement officer selecting one of multiple image frames to be rendered as the first image frame . Additionally the control buttons may facilitate the enforcement individual causing the image frame to be zoomed in or zoomed out when rendered. Alternative embodiments may include additional functionality such as zoom to selected area functionality scroll functionality multi gesture zoom functionality pinch to zoom and or other functionality. The functionality may be controlled by using touch screen controls and or any other suitable type of interface.

The individual user interface in the embodiment shown in also includes detected information . The detected information may include renderings of at least a portion of the targeted details and or that the target identification application obtained from data stores and or and transmitted to the mobile device application and renderings of at least a portion of the data obtained from the image frame and or sensors when the image frame was captured. For example the detected information may show renderings of the identified license plate the date and time that the image frame was captured the GPS location or address that the image frame was captured and a description of why the vehicle is targeted.

The detected information region may include renderings of information that the target identification application detected from the collected data that was provided by the mobile device . For example detected features of the vehicle such as the make model and or color of the vehicle may be shown in the detected information region . The detected information region may also show the type of detection mechanism that was used by the mobile device application and or the target identification application to detect the license plate number. The detected information region may also show the source of the targeted information such as from the FBI most wanted a police database or an incident anonymously reported.

An edit button is associated with the detected information region in the individual user interface shown in . An enforcement individual may select the edit button and edit one or more data fields in the detected information region . For example the enforcement individual may correct information in the data field that indicates the detected color of the vehicle . As a non limiting example the enforcement individual may correct the record to indicate that the vehicle was incorrectly targeted. The mobile device application may transmit a message to the target identification application configured to cause the target identification application to delete the record corresponding to the vehicle from data stores and or .

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents a targeted vehicle client process according to one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the targeted vehicle client process may be an example of the operation of a portion of the mobile device application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the mobile device application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method. In some embodiments the steps of the method may be implemented in the mobile device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the targeted vehicle client process involves collecting image frames and sensor data. For example the mobile device application may collect image frames provided by the image capture device and or sensor data provided by one or more sensors such as remotely generated GPS location data and or other data. At box the targeted vehicle client process involves determining if a vehicle is represented in one or more of the collected image frames and proceeding to box if it does or to box if not. For example the mobile device application may detect whether a vehicle is in one of the captured image frames. In some embodiments the mobile device application may detect a representation of a license plate of the vehicle in the image frame. In other embodiments the mobile device application may identify individual characters of the detected representation of the license plate and use OCR to identify a digital representation of the individual characters.

At box the targeted vehicle client process involves transmitting the image frame to the server. For example mobile device application may transmit the image frame and sensor data to the target identification application via network . In some embodiments the mobile device application may transfer the data to an FTP Server executed in computing environment upload them via a web server executed in computing environment transmit them via TCP IP or UDP data packets or submit them via an application programming interface or remote procedure call. At box the targeted vehicle client process involves receiving an indication that the vehicle is identified as a targeted vehicle. For example the mobile device application may receive a message from the target identification application comprising an indication that the vehicle is targeted and information about the vehicle such as detected information . In some embodiments the mobile device may receive an SMS or similar message to indicate the vehicle is identified as being targeted. The message may also include one or more links to a webpage comprising further information. The link may corresponding to a map identifying the GPS location the image frame of the vehicle was captured such as a link to Google Maps. The link may correspond to a webpage comprising the one or more image frames such as a web page comprising a photograph of the vehicle. The mobile device may open the link using a web browser and render a network page corresponding to the link on the mobile device display .

In box the targeted vehicle client process involves rendering information regarding the targeted vehicle. For example mobile device application may render the information on the mobile device display . In some embodiments the mobile device application may render individual user interface on mobile device display . If the mobile device receives a message a messaging application may display the contents of the message on the mobile device display . The message may comprise an identity of who the message is from a subject of the message and a body of the message. The body of the message may comprise one or more links that may be opened in a web browser where the network page is rendered in mobile device display .

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents a targeted vehicle identification server process according to one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the targeted vehicle identification server process may be an example of the operation of a portion of the target identification application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of target identification application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method. In some embodiments the steps of the method may be implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves obtaining a license plate number and sensor data. For example target identification application may receive a message via the network comprising a license plate number and sensor data. In some embodiments the target identification application may detect a new one or more files uploaded to an FTP server executed in the computing environment where the one or more files comprise a license plate number and sensor data. In yet another embodiment the license plate number and sensor data may be received via a website received via a program TCP IP or UDP IP protocol and or received from a remote application calling a remote procedure call executed in the computing environment. The license plate number and sensor data may also be received via a restful web service a SOAP based socket and or an XML based socket or XML RPC. In box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves querying a data store for the license plate number. For example the target identification application may query the data store and or data store for the license plate number received in box . The query may comprise a SQL query among other query methods. The target identification application may use a fuzzy string search to locate any records from data store and or indicating a vehicle is a targeted vehicle.

In box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves identifying the license plate number as being targeted. For example the target identification application may receive a result from the query that matches the license plate number queried in box . The result may also include targeted details and or . In box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves initiating an action. For example target identification application may transmit a message such as an SMS message APPLE IMESSAGE GOOGLE HANGOUTS BBM or other known messaging system. The target identification application may transmit a popup notification or an email notification to the mobile device. The message being configured to indicate that the vehicle has been identified as a targeted vehicle. The message may include one or more links to a website or network page such as a page with a map of the GPS location when the image frame was captured or a photograph of the vehicle. The target identification application may also transmit a message including the license plate number and additional data to one or more user device applications indicating that the vehicle has been identified as a targeted vehicle. The additional data may comprise sensor data from sensors from the mobile device that captured the image frame the targeted details and or and DMV records related to the car among other information. In some embodiments the target identification application identifies the location of a and transmits a message

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents a targeted vehicle identification server process according to one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the targeted vehicle identification server process may be an example of the operation of a portion of the target identification application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the target identification application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method. In some embodiments the steps of the method may be implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments. Boxes and in have the same functionality as described for and in respectively.

Beginning with box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves receiving one or more image frames from a remote device. For example the target identification application may receive one or more images from the mobile device application via the network . In some embodiments the mobile device application may transfer the data to an FTP Server executed in computing environment upload them via a web server executed in computing environment transmit them via TCP IP or UDP data packets or submit them via an application programming interface or remote procedure call. In box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves identifying a representation of a license plate in one of the one or more image frames. The target identification application may use image recognition to identify a representation of a license plate in at least one of the one or more images such as Computer vision. Computer vision comprises methods for acquiring processing analyzing and understanding images in software. In some embodiments the target identification application may isolate the representation of the license plate to an isolated image to be processed in box . In some embodiments the target identification application may process the isolated image to enhance clarity and contrast among other properties of the isolated image to improve the accuracy if an OCR is executed on the isolated image.

In box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves segmenting representations of characters from an image. For example targeted identification application may segment the one or more representations of characters from an image such as the isolated image. The segmentation may be performed using image recognition techniques such as Computer vision. In box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves individually generating a letter number or symbol for the one or more representations of characters. For example target identification application may individually recognize a letter number or symbol in the one or more representations of characters based on an OCR of a respective representation of a character. In box the targeted vehicle identification server process involves determining a license plate number. For example the targeted identification application may order the identified characters according to the order of the representation of the characters in the isolated image to generate a license plate number.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing environment shown includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit that may include one or more processors and one or more memories both of which are coupled to a local interface . As such each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or any other bus structure.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the target identification application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be the data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the mobile device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The mobile device shown includes at least one processor circuit that may include one or more processors and one or more memories both of which are coupled to a local interface . One or more image capture devices sensors and or user device displays may be coupled to the local interface . The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or any other bus structure.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the mobile device application and potentially other applications. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memories and and are executable by the processors and respectively as may be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components may be stored in the memories and and be executable by the processors and respectively. In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that may ultimately be run by one or more of the processor and . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that may be translated into machine code in a format that may be loaded into a random access portion of one or more of the memories and and run by one or more of the processors and source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the one or more of the memories and and executed by one or more of the processors and or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of one or more of the memories and to be executed by one or more of the processors and etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of one or more of the memories and including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drive a solid state drive a USB flash drive a memory card an optical disc a floppy disk a magnetic tape or any other suitable type of memory.

The memories and may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memories and may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk drive a solid state drive a USB flash drive a memory card accessed via a memory card reader a floppy disk accessed via a floppy disk drive an optical disc accessed via an optical disc drive a magnetic tape accessed via a tape drive another memory component or any combination of two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such components. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory component.

Also each of the processors and may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and each of the memories and may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case each of the local interfaces and may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the respective multiple processors and between any processor and and any of the respective memories and or between any two of the respective memories and etc. The each of local interfaces and may comprise additional systems such as a load balancing system designed to coordinate this communication. The processors and may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the target identification application and the mobile device application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above the same may be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each application or system may be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of portions of the mobile device application and the target identification application respectively. If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as one or more of the processors and in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more boxes may be switched relative to the order shown. Also two or more boxes shown in succession in flowcharts of may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the boxes shown in flowcharts of may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the target identification application and the mobile device application that comprises software or code may be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example one or more of the processors and in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that may be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium may be any medium that may contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium may comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

Further any logic or application described herein including the target identification application and the mobile device application may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or or in multiple computing devices in the same computing environment . Additionally it is understood that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

It is emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

