---

title: Dual mode frangible refueling nozzle
abstract: An in-flight refueling probe includes a first tubular member secured to an aircraft and a second tubular member having a releasable connection with the first tubular member such that the second tubular member detaches from the first tubular member in response to a predetermined force applied to the connection. A nozzle secured to the second tubular member can be coupled to a receptacle of a fuel dispensing aircraft. A tethering member is connected to the first tubular member and one of the second tubular member and the nozzle. The tethering member remains intact to connect the detached second tubular member to the first tubular member when a first tensile force is applied to the tethering member. The tethering member ruptures to disconnect the detached second tubular member from the first tubular member when a second tensile force greater than the first tensile force is applied to the tethering member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09540115&OS=09540115&RS=09540115
owner: NORTHROP GRUMMAN SYSTEMS CORPORATION
number: 09540115
owner_city: Falls Church
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150428
---
The invention was made under US Navy Contract Number N00019 13 C 0135. Therefore the US Government has rights to the invention as specified in that contract.

The present invention relates to aircrafts and in particular relates to a refueling probe assembly for an aircraft having multiple controlled break points.

The in flight refueling of aircraft is a very important capability in that it extends the usable range of the aircraft. Typical refueling devices include a fuel tube extending from the refueling aircraft that terminates in a receptacle for receiving a refueling probe which is connected to the aircraft that sources fuel. Typically the nozzle at the end of the refueling probe is a Military Standard part for example MS 24356 ASG Nozzle Type PA 2 Flight Pressure Refueling. The receptacle on the refueling aircraft is also a Military Standard part for example MS 24354 ASG Drogue Core Nozzle And Refueling Coupling Type MA 2 Flight Pressure Refueling System Assembly Of.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention an in flight refueling probe is provided for an aircraft to be refueled by a fuel dispensing aircraft which has a receptacle for connecting to the refueling probe. The refueling probe includes a first tubular member secured to the aircraft. A second tubular member has a releasable connection with the first tubular member such that the second tubular member detaches from the first tubular member in response to a predetermined force applied to the connection. A nozzle secured to the second tubular member can be coupled to the receptacle of the fuel dispensing aircraft. The nozzle is in fluid communication with the first tubular member and the aircraft. A tethering member has a first end connected to the first tubular member and a second end connected to one of the second tubular member and the nozzle. In the event the second tubular member is separated from the first tubular member the tethering member remains intact to connect the detached second tubular member to the first tubular member when a first tensile force is applied to the tethering member. The tethering member ruptures to disconnect the detached second tubular member from the first tubular member when a second tensile force greater than the first tensile force is applied to the tethering member.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention an in flight refueling probe is provided for an aircraft to be refueled by a fuel dispensing aircraft having a receptacle for connecting to the refueling probe. The refueling probe includes a first tubular member secured to the aircraft. A second tubular member is releasably connected to the first tubular member by a plurality of fasteners extending through openings in the first and second tubular members. The fasteners rupture in response to a predetermined force being applied to the fasteners to allow the second tubular member to detach from the first tubular member. A nozzle secured to the second tubular member can be coupled to the receptacle of the fuel dispensing aircraft and is in fluid communication with the first tubular member. A tethering member has a first end connected to the first tubular member and a second end connected to one of the second tubular member and the nozzle. The tethering member remains intact or ruptures in response to applied forces to control the release of the detached second tubular member from the first tubular member. The applied forces may be induced through various conditions including but not limited to excessive bump drogue release latch stuck improper drogue separation and hose whip. The tethering member ruptures to disconnect the detached second tubular member from the first tubular member when the nozzle is properly coupled to the receptacle.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention an in flight refueling probe is provided for a fuel dispensing aircraft for refueling an aircraft having a receptacle for connecting to the refueling probe. The refueling probe includes a first tubular member secured to the fuel dispensing aircraft. A second tubular member has a releasable connection with the first tubular member such that the second tubular member detaches from the first tubular member in response to a predetermined force applied to the connection. A nozzle secured to the second tubular member can be coupled to the receptacle of the aircraft. The nozzle is in fluid communication with the first tubular member and the fuel dispensing aircraft. A tethering member has a first end connected to the first tubular member and a second end connected to one of the second tubular member and the nozzle. In the event the second tubular member is separated from the first tubular member the tethering member remains intact to connect the detached second tubular member to the first tubular member when a first tensile force is applied to the tethering member. The tethering member ruptures to disconnect the detached second tubular member from the first tubular member when a second tensile force greater than the first tensile force is applied to the tethering member.

Other objects and advantages and a fuller understanding of the invention will be had from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments and the accompanying drawings.

The present invention relates to aircrafts and in particular relates to a refueling probe assembly for an aircraft having a frangible tip with multiple break points. illustrate an aircraft being refueled by a tanker or refueling aircraft in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The tanker includes a refueling apparatus that terminates with a receptacle . The receptacle can be a standard design covered by military standard MS 24354 ASG Drogue Cone Nozzle And Refueling Coupling Type MA 2 Flight Pressure Refueling System Assembly Of.

Extending from the aircraft is a refueling probe for releasably connecting to the receptacle in a manner to be discussed. One example refueling probe is illustrated and described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 516 920 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

It will be appreciated that the receptacle and refueling probe could be switched such that the receptacle is secured to the aircraft and the refueling probe is secured to a boom extending from the tanker not shown . Consequently the operator on board the tanker flies the refueling probe into the receptacle on the aircraft to refuel the aircraft. This configuration is known by the air force as a flying boom type refueling system.

Referring to the refueling probe includes a hollow tubular assembly a connection assembly a link and a nozzle connected to one another in a generally longitudinal manner. The tubular assembly includes a tube extending from a first end see connected to the aircraft to a second end spaced from the aircraft. The second end includes internal threads . A passageway extends longitudinally from the first end to the second end through the entire tube . The passageway is in fluid communication with a fuel tank not shown of the aircraft .

The connection assembly includes a tubular fitting extending from a first end to a second end . The second end has a curved external surface e.g. a convex spherical shape. The fitting includes an outer surface having external threads for threadably engaging the internal threads on the second end of the tube . When the threads are secured together the first end of the fitting extends into the passageway of the tube . The portion of the fitting that extends into the end of the tube is indicated at .

A central cavity extends longitudinally from the first end of the fitting to the second end entirely through the fitting. The cavity is in fluid communication with the passageway of the tube when the fitting and tube are secured together. The cavity includes an opening A at the first end of the fitting and a smaller opening B at the second end of the fitting.

Although the tube and fitting are illustrated as being separately formed components secured together it will be appreciated that the tube and fitting could alternatively be integrally formed as a unitary structure. Consequently the ends and threads of the tube and fitting respectively would be omitted in such a configuration. Regardless the tube and fitting cooperate to form a single tubular member secured to the aircraft .

The connector assembly further includes a fuel transfer assembly having a hollow tube extending from a first end to a second end . A passageway A extends longitudinally from the first end to the second end entirely through the tube . The first end includes a radially extending flange having a radially outer surface . The second end includes a radially extending flange having a radially outer surface . A circumferential groove is formed in the outer surface see . A hole see extends longitudinally into the flange at the first end of the tube .

The fuel transfer assembly is positioned in the cavity of the fitting such that the flange is located within the opening A and the flange is located within the opening B. This places the passageways A in fluid communication with the passageway in the tube . An O ring positioned within the groove forms a fluid tight seal between the flange and the second end of the fitting .

Referring to the flange of the tube is attached to the first end of the fitting by a plurality of circumferentially arranged fastener assemblies . A series of countersunk holes A extend radially inward from the outer surface of the fitting toward the central cavity . A cylindrical hole B extends from each countersunk hole A through the outer surface of the flange and radially inward towards the passageway A. A cylindrical hole extends longitudinally from the end of the flange to each cylindrical hole B. A barrel nut is mounted in each hole . A fastener is installed in each pair of holes A and B and secured to the corresponding barrel nut . This locks the first end of the fitting and the first end of the tube together within the tube .

Referring to the link constitutes a hollow tube extending from a first end to a second end . The first end has an inner curved surface adapted to mate with the externally curved surface on the second end of the fitting . Consequently the inner surface can have any shape so long as it matches the shape of the outer surface on the fitting . A passage A extends longitudinally from the first end to the second end entirely through the link .

A series of releasable connections couple the link to the fitting . In one example the releasable connections constitute rupturable fasteners circumferentially arranged about the periphery of the link . The fasteners can be symmetrically or asymmetrically spaced about the link . As shown in seven fastener assemblies are symmetrically arranged about the periphery of the link . It will be appreciated that more or fewer fastener assemblies can be provided. It will also be appreciated that the releasable connections can alternatively constitute welds adhesive joints fastener types different from what is shown or other controlled break features not shown .

Referring to radially extending holes are formed through the link and the fitting to the cavity . Each hole includes a counterbore A extending radially inward from the outer periphery of link . A counterbore A coaxial with the counterbore A extends radially outward from the cavity into the fitting . A cylindrical hole extends from each counterbore A to the inner surface of the link . A cylindrical hole aligned with the hole extends from each counterbore A to the outer surface of the fitting .

A bushing with a head is press fit into each hole with the head seated in the corresponding counterbore A. A hole A extends along the centerline of each bushing entirely through the bushing. A bushing having a head is press fit into each hole with the head seated in the corresponding counterbore A. A hole B extends along the centerline of each bushing entirely through the bushing. A fastener e.g. a rivet is installed in the holes A B in each pair of bushings to join the link to the fitting . The fastener can alternatively constitute a bolt interference fit pin or the like not shown .

The rivets are designed to break or fail when a predetermined shear load is applied thereto in response to the fitting and link attempting to move relative to one another in one or more directions e.g. longitudinally and or rotationally. Such movement can occur during or following refueling of the aircraft by the tanker . The predetermined load is chosen to help insure that unwanted forces are not transferred to other parts of the probe during refueling of the aircraft . In one example the predetermined load can be about 1000 lbs and more specifically can be about 1500 2000 lbs.

An elastic band can be placed over the exposed head of the rivets to prevent broken rivets from leaving the link upon separation from the fitting . In one instance the band can be bonded in place. The cavity in the fitting also helps to retain any broken rivets .

Referring to the nozzle is attached by an external threaded end to the internal threaded end of the link . The end includes an annular groove for receiving an O ring to fluidly seal the connection between the nozzle and the link . The nozzle is a standard design covered by Military Standard MS 24356 ASG Nozzle Type MA 2 Flight Pressure Refueling. Consequently in the interest of brevity neither the receptacle nor the nozzle is discussed in further detail. It should be noted however that the nozzle is designed to be releasably coupled to seated within the receptacle and only allows for unidirectional fuel flow from the tanker to the aircraft .

In operation the tanker approaches the aircraft to be refueled and the aircrafts cooperate to align and couple the refueling probe with the receptacle . More specifically during refueling the nozzle is releasably coupled to the receptacle to form a closed fluid path from the tanker to the aircraft . Once the coupling between the components is made fuel passing from the nozzle towards the aircraft must pass through the fuel transfer assembly due to the connection between the tube and the fitting . In other words any fuel moving towards the second end of the fitting from the nozzle flows along the length of the passageway A and enters the passageway of the tube without flowing into the annular space between the tube and the fitting . The flanges on the tube prevent the flow of fuel into the annular space.

The nozzle and receptacle couple together by forming a releasable connection e.g. snap fit in conformity with the aforementioned Military Standard. The connection can withstand up to for example about lbs of force before the probe detaches from the receptacle . This is also the amount of force required to open a fueling valve not shown internal to the system to allow fuel to be delivered from the tanker to the nozzle .

After fueling is accomplished the aircraft separates from the refueling apparatus of the tanker . The nozzle is designed to automatically separate or decouple from the receptacle when the tanker moves away from the aircraft i.e. when the detaching force is achieved. In one example the aircraft slows relative to the tanker which induces a longitudinal separating force on the drogue latch not shown . In some instances however the nozzle can become stuck in the receptacle thereby risking damage to the receptacle and or to the refueling probe . Without structure that allows the stuck nozzle and receptacle to separate from the refueling probe the aircraft could be damaged due to the transmission of the load from the probe into the aircraft.

To this end the fasteners securing the link and fitting together are designed to automatically rupture at the rivets when the predetermined load is exceeded. Consequently the predetermined load is configured to be large enough to allow for proper refueling of the aircraft and proper detaching of the receptacle from the nozzle but to rupture when the forces acting on the fasteners are indicative of an excessive bump stuck drouge release latch improper drogue separation or hose whip. Rupturing of the fasteners allows the nozzle which is stuck within the receptacle to move relative to the remainder of the refueling nozzle . As a result the nozzle and link are liberated separated from the fitting and allowed to move relative to one another to prevent undesirable forces from being transmitted from the tanker to the aircraft .

A tethering member connects the nozzle to the refueling probe to help prevent the liberated detached nozzle from subsequently dislodging from the receptacle and causing in flight FOD. The tethering member has a first end secured to the fitting tube or fuel transfer assembly . In any case the first end is secured to portions of the refueling probe that remain secured to the aircraft when the fasteners rupture. A second end of the tethering member is secured to the nozzle or link . The tethering member can constitute an elongated structure or cable formed from any inelastic material such as steel.

As shown in the tensioning member extends within the interior of the refueling probe . More specifically the tensioning member extends through the passageways A of the fuel transfer assembly . The ends of the tethering member are secured to the interior of the tube and the interior of the nozzle respectively see . The tethering member is secured to the tube and the nozzle via known means e.g. fasteners weld or the like. In either case one or more devices not shown can secure the tensioning member to the interior of the refueling probe at positions along its length to help retain the tensioning member in place.

The tethering member cooperates with the nozzle and tube to selectively retain the liberated nozzle depending on the condition or nature of the connection between the nozzle and the receptacle . Referring to a first condition occurs when the nozzle is stuck but not properly seated within the receptacle . In this instance the improperly seated nozzle is wedged or stuck in the receptacle sufficient to cause rupturing of the rivets when the tanker attempts to fly away from the aircraft . Due to the improper seating of the nozzle in the receptacle the nozzle could be subsequently detached from the receptacle and cause FOD as the refueling aircraft and tanker separate or otherwise prior to the tanker landing. The tensioning member however is configured to pull the liberated and properly seated probe and link out of the receptacle without rupturing. This advantageously allows the tanker and aircraft to separate while the tethering member keeps the liberated nozzle and link connected to the aircraft thereby helping to prevent FOD to the refueling aircraft or the tanker.

Referring to a second condition occurs when the nozzle is fully properly seated in the receptacle but nevertheless stuck or lodged in place unable to be removed when the tanker and aircraft attempt to separate. In this instance the tethering member is configured to rupture when the force applied by the liberated properly seated nozzle and link exceeds a predetermined amount. This allows the refueling aircraft to fly away from the tanker while the tanker securely holds the liberated nozzle and link in the receptacle until landing. The predetermined amount of force needed to rupture the tethering member is configured to be less than the strength of the connections securing the ends of the tethering member to the refueling probe .

In another example shown in the tethering member is secured to the exterior of the refueling probe . The ends are secured to the exterior of the tube and the exterior of the nozzle respectively. The tethering member in is secured to the exterior of the refueling probe in the same manner the tethering member in is secured to the interior of the refueling probe and operates in the same manner.

It will be appreciated that the receptacle refueling probe and tethering member operate in the same manner when the flying boom type refueling system is employed.

While the invention has been described with reference to a particular embodiment it should be understood that the embodiment is merely illustrative as there are numerous variations and modifications which can be made by those skilled in the art. In particular the invention can be used on any tubular structure where one part must be separable from another without damage to connected structure. Thus the invention is to be construed as being limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

