---

title: Social networking-based teleconferencing system and method
abstract: A system and method for creating teleconferences that leverage social networking websites and messaging thereof. The system includes a teleconferencing website hosted on a server for scheduling a teleconference in response to user input, and for generating a message for display on a social networking website. The message includes information about the teleconference and a link to one or more invitees to the teleconference. The system further includes an interactive voice response system for hosting the teleconference to connect at least some of the one or more invitees to the teleconference. The system further includes a client application running on a mobile device associated with each of the at least some of the one or more invitees. The client application receives a notification of the teleconference from the social networking website, and includes a control interface to enable an associated invitee to join the teleconference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565315&OS=09565315&RS=09565315
owner: Twalkin, Inc.
number: 09565315
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150428
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 877 073 filed Sep. 7 2010 titled Social Networking Based Teleconferencing System and Method which in turn claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 240 145 filed on Sep. 4 2009 entitled Social Networking Based Teleconferencing System and Method the entire disclosure of each of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

This disclosure relates generally to teleconferencing and more particularly to a teleconferencing system and method that leverages connections and followings formed on social networking websites.

Social networks are pervasive in today s modern Internet ecosystem and are increasingly becoming the center of Internet user s interaction with others. Businesses groups and individuals alike are becoming aware of the power of Web based social networks and are leveraging their power to make connections and foster interaction and communication.

Despite the rapid speed with which many users communicate or follow web based social networking information there is still a largely unmet need for better real time interaction. For instance on the Twitter website users can instantaneously receive Tweets or short message service SMS messages by other users they follow but unless the tweeting users are correspondingly following each and every one of their following users the following users have no way of interacting with the tweeting users in real time.

Further text based communication often lacks a voice of the communicator. Subtleties of spoken communication such as tone and inflection which convey significant information by themselves are difficult to convey by the written word or typed phrase. Accordingly what is needed is a system and method that leverages web based social networking with voice conferencing.

In general this document discloses a teleconferencing system and method by which teleconferences can be created via social networking sites and accessed by any number of invitees through a local client application on a mobile device with telephony capability.

In one aspect a system and method is presented for creating teleconferences that leverage social networking websites and messaging thereof. The system includes a teleconferencing website hosted on a server for scheduling a teleconference in response to user input and for generating a message for display on a social networking website. The message includes information about the teleconference and a link to one or more invitees to the teleconference. The system further includes an interactive voice response system for hosting the teleconference to connect at least some of the one or more invitees to the teleconference. The system further includes a client application running on a mobile device associated with each of the at least some of the one or more invitees. The client application receives a notification of the teleconference from the social networking website and includes a control interface to enable an associated invitee to join the teleconference.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes a system and method for teleconferencing where teleconferences are set up through a social networking website such as TWITTER FACEBOOK MYSPACE LINKEDIN or other such web based social networking platform. The social networking platform may be entirely web based or may include communications over a wireless network using a mobile device as a user node.

In accordance with preferred implementations and as illustrated in a teleconferencing system invites users to use their mobile devices to call into a teleconference. The call in can be through dialing a number or pressing a command button or by activating an application that is resident on the mobile device or accessible via the mobile device from a server connected to a wireless communications network . Users are notified of an existence of a teleconference from the social networking site or via text message generated from a server associated with the social networking site or associated with an interactive voice response system and teleconferencing server .

Teleconferences can be created and executed by a user using a computer connected with the social networking site or with the teleconference server . Additionally the computer can execute an application to enable a user to participate in a teleconference through the computer instead of having to use a mobile device .

The teleconferencing system and method transforms an on line social networking based conversation usually via messaging or other text based exchange into a real time voice based conversation to a predefined group. That group can be a number of users who are called followers of individual information contributors to the social network platform.

The teleconferencing system can be implemented by an application that includes one or more APIs. The APIs enable third party developers to easily integrate the teleconferencing system into their own applications for any specific mobile platform such as the IPHONE ANDROID or BLACKBERRY mobile device platforms.

In some implementations a host of a social networking website can initiate through clinking one graphical control or pushing one button an invitation to all of their followers to join that host in a teleconference. Any interested followers can receive the invitation and clinking one graphical control or pushing one button can via their mobile device or other telecommunications device join the teleconference as shown in the example client application screen of . Each follower can join the teleconference up to a predetermined amount of time before the teleconference is scheduled to begin.

The teleconferencing system and method can be launched as an application via a link on a website that hosts at least part of the teleconferencing system and method. For example the link can be generated and provided by a social networking platform and transmitted on the website either privately or publicly. Invitees can be immediately authenticated based only on their phone number that matches a phone number that will likely be used by each invitee to access the teleconference and which has been pre registered with the system. Accordingly invitees can sign in to the teleconferencing system using their pre existing social networking credentials and identifying information.

Hosts of teleconferences are provided a user interface associated with the teleconferencing system which enables the host control and management over the conference i.e. who can talk who may only listen etc. Further their user interface can provide a representation such as the invitees identifier s of each participant in the conference which can be used for further control.

In other implementations within a conference such as in down time before an official start of the conference or to introduce the conference a web server can insert messages such as advertisements as an audio stream into the voice network. Further advertisements can be provided to the website associated with the teleconferencing system as participants can both participate in the conference on their mobile devices or other telecommunication devices as well as access a website associated with the conference to get additional information beyond the real time voice transmissions.

The home screen can also provide links to all or subsets of the teleconferences that are available. Users can filter the teleconferences according to any number of parameters or variables such as by participating conferee date future teleconference subject matter key word search metadata or any other parameter. Users can also be notified of new teleconferences regularly via home screen in a periodic or streaming i.e. as teleconferences are created manner or feed. By accessing any particular teleconference link the user is provided more information about the teleconference in about screen .

For new or returning users a sign in register screen allows a user to enter or configure their identifying information such as log on and password. Their identifying information can also correspond to their membership information for any of the number of related social networking websites of which the user is a member or follower. A user account screen enables a user to integrate their teleconferencing capabilities and participation with their preferred social networking sites and can import a user s personal information such as preferences demographics etc. A user can remove their account or a link by any of their followers via account remove screen or can manage their account and follower list at a manage user list screen .

By accepting followers at the manage user list screen a user can send text messages or graphically rich messages to any number of their followers some or all via message users screen . For instance if a teleconference is set up by a user that user can have a text message sent to a telephone number associated with each of their followers that have been approved or designated as a participant of the teleconference. The manage user list screen links to an invite users screen through which a creator of a teleconference can invite or designate followers from the system s user base. The system also provides a blog screen for providing a blog about any of the teleconferences a category browsing screen and tag browsing screen for various types of searches and an article screen to provide supporting text graphics videos etc. to the teleconferences.

Once users have been invited or designated to follow or participate in a teleconference a create conference screen enables a creator to schedule the teleconference. This screen allows a user creator to designate start time and duration. The system can automatically generate a dial in number or control button or link to send to invited followers for one touch access and entry into the teleconference by each follower. Sign in screen enables teleconference creators to access a particular teleconference and then define conference parameters participants voice capability mute capability etc. via define conference parameters screen . The teleconference can be executed on execute conference screen .

Those having skill in the art would recognize that the above description of website need not necessarily provide for separate screens for the above functions and that more than one function can be combined on a screen. Further the website may offer more or less functions than that described herein. The website can be implemented as an XML or HTML file and can be rendered in browser on a computer or a mobile computing device such as a smart phone.

The Website and API are hosted using highly optimized and multiply redundant equipment. Static content can be hosted using a major Content Distribution Network CDN . The hosting equipment is preferably located in a multiply redundant data center and the site and its data is backed up using full and incremental backups.

Interactive voice response equipment IVR is hosted in a Independant Local Exchange Carrier ILEC . The calls operate on a Communications Server that is maintained through one or more telecom partners and is dedicated specifically for the system.

There are preferably two different sets of APIs one for the website to communicate with the IVR and visa versa. The website will communicate with the IVR when calls need to be setup maintained or certain data is requested. The IVR will communicate with the website when events are triggered within a call or by the system. The APIs are implemented as JavaScript Object Notation JSON over HTTP using all four verbs GET POST PUT DELETE . Every Model like a Call or a Caller has their own URL and are manipulated in isolation. The API attempts to follow REST principles as much as possible.

Authentication is managed using the Basic Access Authentication HTTP method. Every request must include the Authorization HTTP header. All requests will need to be called using the https protocol. If a request fails the error information is returned with the HTTP status code. For example if a requested record could not be found the HTTP response might look like this 

In general if a request causes a new record to be created like a new Call the response will use the 201 Created status. Any other successful operation like a successful query delete or update will use a 200 status code.

Create Call POST calls Creates a new Call. Response is HTTP status code 201 on success and outputs the JSON serialized Call.

Update Call PUT calls call id. Updates an existing Call. Response is HTTP status code 200 on success.

Destroy Call DELETE calls call id. Deletes an existing Call and all associated data. Response is HTTP status code 200 on success.

Get Call GET calls call id. Gets a Call from the specified Call id. Response is a JSON serialized Call.

List Calls GET calls. Lists all Calls currently setup in the IVR. Response is a JSON serialized Array of Call.

Add Callers to Call POST calls call id callers. Adds Array of Caller to an existing call. If a Caller in the Array already exists on the Call it will be ignored. Response is HTTP status code 201 on success.

Update Caller PUT calls call id callers caller id. Updates an existing Caller. Response is HTTP status code 200 on success.

Remove Callers from Call DELETE calls call id callers. Removes any Caller specified in Array from an existing Call. If a Caller in the Array does not exist on the call it will be ignored. If a call is in progress this will kick the user from the call. Response is HTTP status code 200 on success.

List Callers GET calls call id callers. Lists all Callers for a specified Call. Response is a JSON serialized Array of Caller.

Create Caller Joins Call Event POST calls call id callers caller id join. Triggered when a Caller joins a Call. If Caller is anonymous because Twalk is public the Caller s telephone number digits only should be used as the Caller id. Response is HTTP status code 201 on success.

Create Caller Leaves Call Event POST calls call id callers caller id leave. Triggered when a Caller leaves a Call. If Caller is anonymous because Twalk is public the Caller s telephone number digits only should be used as the Caller ID. Response is HTTP status code 201 on success.

Every teleconference can begin with a user logging into the system s website using their social networking credentials creating a new teleconference and inviting other users of a particular social networking site s to attend. The invitations are sent out to the invitees as text messages on the respective social networking site s . The invitees can then use the system s mobile application a simple one button third party client which supports the system s functionality or simply dial the teleconference number to attend the teleconference. Once the number is dialed the system automatically recognizes the phone number the user is calling from and routes them to the appropriate teleconference.

One simple way to grow a user base is to offer a welcoming text message to which a user would opt in via voice prompts to any unregistered callers who use the service for the first time. The caller will be asked to reply to the text message with their social networking identification name i.e. username for Twitter and the system will automatically setup a new account for them with their phone number already associated and all of their social networking information pictures bio etc pulled over. This hassle free and simple approach will allow the service to be highly usable and portable.

Teleconferences can be either public or private. Public teleconferences are available to anyone who calls in and private teleconferences are invite only. There are three primary types of teleconferences that can be established using the system 1 conversation takes place between two people 2 conference takes place among a group of two or more people where at least some of the group of people are able to talk at the same time and 3 broadcast a large group that has very limited number of the group speaking and many people of the group listening. Unless specifically allowed callers are defaulted to muted.

Teleconferences are available in one of generally three ways 1 real time a user host can set up a teleconference that starts immediately. When the teleconference is finished and the host leaves the call the teleconference is finished. 2 Scheduled can be set to take place at any time in the future. 3 Archive a concluded teleconference that has been recorded and stored in a searchable database. Users can access archived teleconferences by using the one touch mobile application or by dialing a number with a specific PIN. If the teleconference was private at the time it was recorded only those users who were invited to the call will be allowed to listen to it as an archive unless specifically archived as public.

Some or all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of them. Embodiments of the invention can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium e.g. a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage medium a memory device or a machine readable propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also referred to as a program software an application a software application a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to a communication interface to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks.

Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the invention can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the invention can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the invention or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Certain features which for clarity are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features which for brevity are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Particular embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the steps recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition embodiments of the invention are not limited to database architectures that are relational for example the invention can be implemented to provide indexing and archiving methods and systems for databases built on models other than the relational model e.g. navigational databases or object oriented databases and for databases having records with complex attribute structures e.g. object oriented programming objects or markup language documents. The processes described may be implemented by applications specifically performing archiving and retrieval functions or embedded within other applications.

