---

title: Method and electronic device for recognizing area
abstract: A method of recognizing an area by an electronic device is provided. The method includes identifying area information for the electronic device and determining whether the electronic device enters a Point Of Interest (POI), using Access Point (AP) information included in the identified area information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602969&OS=09602969&RS=09602969
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09602969
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150731
---
This application priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application Serial No. 10 2014 0098202 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jul. 31 2014 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a method and an apparatus for recognizing an area and more particularly to a method and an apparatus for automatically recognizing a point of interest.

Recent electronic devices enable a user to become aware of an entrance to a configured area using a geo fencing technique which uses a method in which entrance to an area is recognized utilizing a separate module or a method in which a user directly registers an area of interest i.e. a point of interest .

However since existing electronic devices use a server based interest space extracting method in order to minimize a calculation amount when a point of interest is extracted problems such as a leakage of personal information may occur. In addition existing electronic devices cannot divide a point of interest where a user visits and cannot automatically recognize a point of interest.

The present invention has been made to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below.

According to an aspect of the present invention an electronic device that is capable of automatically configuring a point of interest and recognizing the point of interest is provided.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of recognizing an area by an electronic device. The method includes identifying area information for the electronic device and determining whether the electronic device enters a Point Of Interest POI using Access Point AP information included in the identified area information.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention there is provided an electronic device for recognizing an area. The electronic device includes an area recognizing module that identifies area information for the electronic device and a processor that determines whether the electronic device enters a POI using AP information included in the identified area information.

According to an aspect of the present invention an electronic device that can minimize a calculation amount and extract a point of interest without a designation of a user is provided.

According to an aspect of the present invention an electronic device that independently determines and recognizes a point of interest and thus prevents leakage of a user s personal information is provided.

According to an aspect of the present invention an electronic device that can automatically execute a configuration and a function of a terminal corresponding to the point of interest when the electronic device enters a point of interest is provided.

Hereinafter the present invention is described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may have various modifications and embodiments and thus will be described in detail with reference to specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings. However it should be understood that there is no intent to limit the present invention to the particular forms disclosed herein rather the present invention should be construed to cover all modifications equivalents and or alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention. In the description of the drawings identical or similar reference numerals are used to designate identical or similar elements.

As used herein the expression include or may include refers to the existence of a corresponding function operation or element and does not exclude one or more additional functions operations or elements. Also as used herein the terms include and or have should be construed to denote a certain feature number step operation element component or a combination thereof and should not be construed to exclude the existence or possible addition of one or more other features numbers steps operations elements components or combinations thereof.

Also as used here the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

In the present invention the expressions a first a second the first the second and the like may modify various elements but the corresponding elements are not limited by these expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding elements. The above expressions may be used merely for the purpose of distinguishing one element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element may be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element.

When an element is referred to as being coupled or connected to any other element it should be understood that not only the element may be directly coupled or connected to the other element but also a third element may be interposed therebetween. Contrarily when an element is referred to as being directly coupled or directly connected to any other element it should be understood that no element is interposed therebetween.

The term module may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of the hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

The terms used in the present invention are only used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the present invention. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical and scientific terms have the same meaning as those commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present specification.

An electronic device according to the present invention may be a device including an area information generation or recognition function. For example the area may be a place which a user of the electronic device frequently enters or exits. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo and a smart watch.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having an area information generation or recognition function. The smart home appliance for example may include at least one of a television a digital video disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various types of medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a scanning machine ultrasonic wave device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a car infotainment device ship electronic equipment for example navigation equipment for a ship a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device and an industrial or home robot.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various types of measuring devices for example a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like including a camera function. The electronic device may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Further the electronic device is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In various embodiments the term user may indicate a person using an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface an area recognizing module and a camera module .

The area recognizing module processes at least a part of information acquired from other components e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface the communication interface the camera module etc. and provides the processed part of the information to a user in various schemes as described in greater detail below.

The area recognizing module identifies area information for a position of the electronic device and determines whether the electronic device enters a Point Of Interest POI using Access Point AP information provided in the area information using or independently from the processor . The area information may further include position information for the position of the electronic device and the AP information may include a Wi Fi AP list recognized at the position and signal intensity information of the AP. Here the position information may be information for the position of the electronic device based on GPS information received at the electronic device.

The area recognizing module determines a scan period for identifying the area information according to state information of the electronic device . The state information of the electronic device may include at least one of information on how long the electronic device stays at a particular position information on an activated application hereinafter simply referred to as app information on telephone use and information on messenger use. For example when the electronic device executes an app at a position A the area recognizing module simultaneously executes the app and scans the area information.

When the area recognizing module determines that the position where the electronic device is currently positioned is not the POI the area recognizing module identifies a distance between the position of the electronic device and a peripheral POI and a movement of the electronic device and determines a scan period of the area information corresponding to the distance and the movement of the electronic device . Therefore battery consumption of the electronic device which is unnecessary by a scan period may be prevented and the POI may be determined.

The area recognizing module identifies an app corresponding to the POI and executes the app when the electronic devices enters the POI. For example in a case wherein a bus stop A is the POI and a user uses a bus app at the bus stop A when the electronic device is positioned at the bus stop A the bus app may be executed automatically or through a specific gesture of the user. For example the specific gesture may include an operation in which a user shakes the electronic device an operation in which a home button of the electronic device is pushed for a long time by the user and an operation in which a specific drag pattern is input to a display of the electronic device by the user.

The area recognizing module extracts a specific area using grid map based clustering and K Means clustering maps area information including at least one of a Wi Fi AP list measured in the specific area AP information including signal intensity information of the AP and state change information of the electronic device with position information of the specific area stores the area information and extracts the POI from the specific area. In addition the area recognizing module may determine a similarity between a Wi FI AP list of an area where the electronic device is positioned with a pre stored Wi Fi AP list in the electronic device . Also the area recognizing module compares an intensity of each Wi Fi AP list an area where the electronic device is positioned with an intensity of each pre stored Wi Fi AP list so that the area recognizing module determines the similarity. And if a value of the similarity is greater than or equal to a predetermined value the area recognizing module determines that the area an area where the electronic device is positioned is equal to an area corresponding to the pre stored Wi Fi AP list calculates the number of visits to the area and when the number is greater than or equal to a critical value determines that the area is the POI.

The area recognizing module determines whether the electronic device enters the POI using the AP information provided in the area information compares a Wi FI AP list in the AP information and Wi Fi AP list pre stored in the electronic device and when a value of the comparison is greater than or equal to a critical value determines that the electronic device is in the POI.

The area recognizing module measures the AP information in the POI identifies whether the AP information is representative AP information stored in a server and executes an app corresponding to the representative AP information. For example when cafes of a brand D are in a position A a position B and a position C the cafes of the brand D provide different AP information and when the electronic device stores the cafe of brand D positioned at the position A as the POI the electronic device may enter the cafe of brand D position at the position B for the first time. When the cafe of brand D positioned at the position B provides representative AP information of the cafe of brand D the area recognizing module recognizes the cafe of brand D positioned at the position B as the POI as being equal to that of the cafe of brand D positioned at the position A. Thus the area recognizing module executes an app corresponding to the representative AP information.

The area recognizing module updates the area information for the position of the electronic device . The area information may further include position information for the position of the electronic device and the AP information may include at least one of a Wi Fi AP list recognized at the position signal intensity information of the AP and information on the app corresponding to the position information.

That is the area recognizing module replaces a pre stored Wi Fi AP list and signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP corresponding to the area with a new Wi Fi AP list and signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP for the area and stores the new Wi Fi AP list and the signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP. The area recognizing module maps the number of visits to the area a type of an app activated in the area the number of activations of the app and the position information of the area and stores the number of visits to the area the type of the app activated in the area the number of activations of the app and the position information of the area. The area recognizing module determines a representative app and a representative Wi Fi AP corresponding to the representative app using the mapped information. In addition the area recognizing module determines whether the electronic device enters the POI using the representative Wi Fi AP corresponding to the area and the representative Wi Fi AP signal intensity.

In addition after updating is performed the area recognizing module deletes the Wi Fi AP list the signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP the number of visits to the area the type of the app activated in the area and the number of activations of the app except for the representative app and the representative Wi Fi AP from a memory. Thus unnecessary memory consumption can be prevented.

For example when pre stored area information includes a position A a Wi Fi AP list recognized at the position A the signal intensity information of the AP and information on a representative app B at the position A the area recognizing module updates the pre stored area information as a Wi Fi AP list newly recognized at the position A and the signal intensity information of the AP and a representative app may be updated as another type of app rather than a representative app B which is mainly used at the position A by the user. In addition the recognized Wi Fi AP list and the signal intensity information of the AP which are pre stored at the position A may be deleted.

The memory stores a command or data received from the processor or other component elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface the area recognizing module the camera module etc. or generated by the processor or other component elements. The memory includes programming modules e.g. a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application etc. Each of the aforementioned programming modules may be formed of software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. used for executing an operation or a function implemented in other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel provides an interface that enables the middleware the API or the application to access an individual component element of the electronic device for control or management.

The middleware functions as a relay so that the API or the application executes communication with the kernel and receives and transmits data. Further in association with operation requests received from the application the middleware executes a control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for an operation request using for example a method of assigning to at least one application a priority for use of a system resource e.g. for example the bus the processor the memory etc. of the electronic device .

The API is an interface used by the application to control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. a command for a file control a window control image processing a character control etc.

The application may include an area recognizing application an SMS MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application measuring quantity of motion or a blood sugar or an environment information application e.g. an application providing information on a pressure a humidity and a temperature a bus application a memo application a coupon application and the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with exchanging of information between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example an electronic device . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification transmission application for transferring predetermined information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device.

For example the notification transmission application may include a function of transferring to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device e.g. an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health management application an environmental information application etc. Additionally or alternatively the notification transmission application may for example receive notification information from an external electronic device to provide the notification information to a user. The device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update for example a function of at least a part of an external electronic device that communicates with the electronic device e.g. turning on off the external electronic device or a few components or adjusting brightness or resolution of a display an application operated in the external electronic device or a service provided from the external electronic device e.g. a call service or a message service .

The application may include an application designated according to properties e.g. a type of the electronic device of an external electronic device. For example in a case where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. The application may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device e.g. a server or the electronic device .

The memory stores the area information of the electronic device or the state information of the electronic device . The state information of the electronic device may include information on how long the electronic device stays at a position information on an activated app information on telephone use and information on messenger use.

In addition the memory stores the Wi Fi AP list recognized at the current position of the electronic device and the signal intensity information of the AP in order to determine whether the electronic device enters a POI. In addition the memory stores the position information of the electronic device and the position information may include GPS information indicating the current position of the electronic device . For example the memory maps and stores the GPS information the Wi Fi AP list recognized in the GPS information and the signal intensity information of each Wi Fi AP corresponding to the Wi Fi AP list. In addition for example the electronic device maps the area information with the state information and stores the area information and the state information in the memory . That is the electronic device maps a position A a W Fi AP list recognized at the position A each Wi Fi AP signal intensity corresponding to the Wi Fi AP list and state information of the electronic device at the position A and stores the position A the Wi Fi AP list recognized at the position A each Wi Fi AP signal intensity corresponding to the Wi Fi AP list and the state information of the electronic device at the position A in the memory .

The processor receives commands from the above described other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface the area recognizing module and the like through the bus interprets the received commands and executes calculation or data processing according to the interpreted commands.

In addition the processor may include the area recognizing module and may perform an operation of the area recognizing module when the electronic device does not include the area recognizing module . In addition the processor may perform at least one operation of the area recognizing module as described above.

The bus may be a circuit that interconnects the above described elements and delivers communications e.g. a control message between the above described elements.

The input output interface transfers a command or data input by a user through an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface and the area recognizing module for example through the bus . For example the input output interface provides to the processor data associated with a touch of a user input through a touch screen of the display . Further the input output interface outputs for example a command or data received through the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface and the area recognizing module through an input output device e.g. a speaker or display . For example the input output interface outputs voice data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display displays various information e.g. multimedia data text data or the like and an image to a user.

The communication interface provides a connection for communication between the electronic device and another electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to the network through wireless communication or wired communication and may communicate with an external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The camera module determines whether an image is the POI or a specific area using area information for the image photographed by the electronic device . For example when the POI of the electronic device is stored as a cafe of brand B positioned at a position A and the electronic device is in a cafe of brand B positioned in a new position C by a movement of the electronic device the camera module recognizes that the cafe of brand B positioned at the position C is the POI by photographing the brand B.

The network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network may include at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and a telephone network. A protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for the communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

Referring to the area recognizing module includes an extracting unit a determining unit and an update unit .

The extracting unit extracts a specific area using a grid map based clustering or a K means clustering using or independently from the processor . Area information including at least one of a Wi Fi AP list measured in a specific area AP information including signal intensity information of the AP and state change information of the electronic device with position information of the specific area and the area information is stored. The POI may be extracted from the specific area.

The determining unit may determine a similarity between a Wi Fi AP list of an area where the electronic device is positioned and a pre stored Wi Fi AP list in the electronic device . And if a value of the similarity is greater than a predetermined value the determining unit determines that the area where the electronic device is positioned is equal to an area corresponding to the pre stored Wi Fi AP list. The similarity may be determined by comparing each signal intensity high medium and low of the Wi Fi APs a b and c of the area where the electronic device is positioned with each signal intensity high high and medium of the Wi Fi AP a b and d pre stored in the electronic device. For example even though c of the Wi Fi AP of the area where the electronic device is positioned is different from d of the Wi Fi AP pre stored in the electronic device i.e. the comparison is greater than a predetermined critical value it may be determined that the area is the area equal to the pre stored area. The similarity is acquired by using an intensity between the Wi Fi AP list of an area where the electronic device is positioned and a pre stored Wi Fi AP list in the electronic device . That is the intensity of the Wi Fi AP is compared with an intensity of the pre stored Wi Fi AP in the electronic device . In addition the determining unit calculates a number of visits to the area and when the number is greater than or equal to a critical value the determining unit determines that the area is the POI. The determining unit determines whether the electronic device enters the POI using the AP information provided in the area information compares an intensity of a Wi Fi AP list in the AP information and an intensity of a Wi Fi AP list pre stored in the electronic device and when a value of the comparison ex. similarity is greater than or equal to a critical value the determining unit determines that the electronic device is in the POI. The determining unit determines a scan period for identifying area information according to state information of the electronic device . The state information of the electronic device may include but is not limited to information on how long the electronic device stays at a particular position information on an activated app information on telephone use and information on messenger use. For example when the determining unit executes an app at a position A the determining unit simultaneously executes the app and scans the area information.

When the determining unit determines that the current position of the electronic device is not the POI the determining unit identifies a distance between the current position of the electronic device and a peripheral POI and movement of the electronic device . The determining unit determines a scan period of the area information corresponding to the identified distance and the movement of the electronic device .

The determining unit identifies the app corresponding to the POI and when the electronic device enters the POI the determining unit executes the identified app.

The determining unit measures AP information in the POI identifies whether the AP information is representative AP information stored in the server and executes an app corresponding to the representative AP information.

The update unit updates the area information for the position of the electronic device . The area information may include position information for the position of the electronic device . The AP information may include but is not limited to a Wi Fi AP list recognized at the position signal intensity information of the AP and information on the app corresponding to the position information.

The update unit replaces a pre stored Wi Fi AP list and signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP corresponding to an area with a new Wi Fi AP list and signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP for a new area and stores the Wi Fi AP list and the signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP. The update unit maps and stores the number of visits to an area a type of an app activated in an area the number of activations of the app and the position information of an area. The update unit determines a representative app and a representative Wi Fi AP corresponding to the representative app using the mapped information. The determining unit determines whether the electronic device enters a POI using the representative Wi Fi AP corresponding to an area and a signal intensity of the representative Wi Fi AP.

After the updating is performed the update unit deletes the Wi Fi AP list the signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP the number of visits to an area the type of the app activated in an area and the number of activations of the app except for the representative app and the representative Wi Fi AP.

Referring to the electronic device identifies area information for a position of the electronic device at step . The position may be the position where the electronic device is located. The area information for example may include the position information of the electronic device and AP information. The position information may include the coordinate information using a GPS. The AP information may include the Wi Fi AP list recognized at the position where the electronic device is located and the signal intensity information of the AP.

In addition the area information may include information on a type of an app activated in the electronic device information the number of visits to the area where the electronic device is located information on how long the electronic device stays at the position and the like.

Referring to Table 1 when the position of the electronic device is the bus stop a Wi Fi AP list recognized at the bus stop may be A B and C and each recognized signal intensity may be a high a medium and a low. In addition types of apps activated in the electronic device at the position may be the bus app and the game app and the electronic device stores that the bus app and the game app may be activated 20 times and 15 times respectively. In addition the electronic device stores that the electronic device visits the area 20 times per month and the electronic device stays at the position for 10 minutes on average. Thus the area information may include the information on the area recognized using GPS information the information on the Wi Fi AP list the information on the signal intensity of the Wi Fi AP the information on the type of the activated app the number of visits to the area and the information on how long the electronic device stays at the position.

The electronic device may automatically store and update the area information in consideration of an entrance area of the electronic device the number of visits of the entrance area a length of stay at the entrance area and the like. The area information may be individually configured by a user and when the electronic device recognizes a specific AP according to the configuration the electronic device determines an automatically executed app.

The electronic device determines whether the electronic device enters a POI using the AP information in the area information at step . The POI when the number of visits to an area is greater than or equal to a critical value may be designated as the area.

The electronic device compares the Wi Fi AP list and the Wi Fi AP signal intensity information in an area information with the pre stored and mapped AP information and when a value of a comparison between the stored AP information and the Wi Fi AP list and the Wi Fi AP signal intensity information in the area information is greater than or equal to a critical value as a result of the comparison the electronic device determines that the area is the same as the POI. However when the value of the comparison is less than or equal to the critical value the electronic device determines that the area is not the same as the POI.

When the electronic device enters the POI the electronic device executes the app corresponding to the POI at step . For example the app corresponding to the POI may be executed automatically or through a specific gesture of a user. The specific gesture may include an operation in which the user shakes the electronic device an operation in which the user pushes a home button of the electronic device for a designated time and an operation in which the user inputs a specific drag pattern to the display of the electronic device .

Next the electronic device updates the area information for the position of the electronic device at step .

In contrast when the electronic device does not enter the POI the electronic device identifies the distance between the position of the electronic device and a peripheral POI and the movement of the electronic device . The electronic device determines a scan period of the area information corresponding to the distance and the movement at step .

Referring to the electronic device identifies area information for a current position. That is the electronic device compares AP information recognized at the current position and pre stored area information to identify whether the area is the same as the POI. When the area is determined to be the same as the POI the electronic device executes an app corresponding to the POI. For example when a bus stop is configured as the POI the electronic device executes the app which is mainly used by a user at the bus stop automatically or through a specific gesture of the user. The app may be a bus app and may inform of a type of a bus stopped at the bus stop a current position of the bus and the like.

Referring to the electronic device identifies area information for a current position. That is the electronic device compares AP information recognized at the current position and pre stored area information to identify whether the area is the same as a POI. When the area is determined to be the same as the POI the electronic device executes an app corresponding to the POI. For example when a conference room is configured as the POI the electronic device executes the app which is mainly used by a user in the conference room automatically or through a specific gesture of the user. The app may be a memo app and may include a key pad on which a memo may be written an edition list and the like.

A process described below with reference to may be prior to the process of identifying the area information for the position of the electronic device .

Referring to the electronic device extracts a specific area using complex clustering according to state change information of the electronic device at step . The state information of the electronic device may include information on how long the electronic device stays at a position information on an activated app information on telephone use and information on messenger use. For example when the electronic device uses a telephone the electronic device extracts the specific area using complex clustering.

Complex clustering includes for example grid map based clustering and a K means clustering and the specific area may be extracted using the grid map based clustering and the K means clustering. The electronic device determines a scan period of a Wi Fi AP using the extracted specific area. The electronic device scans the Wi Fi AP at only the specific area and thus the electronic device can reduce unnecessary battery consumption.

For example the specific area may be each area divided by the electronic device such that the electronic device extracts the POI. Alternatively how long the electronic device stays in a specific area may be calculated and the specific area may be determined to be an area where the calculated time is equal to or longer than a critical value. The specific area may be defined as an area where a visit number is lower than that of the POI but a visit number is comparatively greater than that of other areas or a length of stay is longer than that of the other areas.

Thus after the electronic device designates the specific area the electronic device maps the specific area information including at least one of the state change information of the electronic device at the specific area the information on the measured Wi Fi AP list and the information on the signal intensity of the Wi Fi AP with the position information of the specific area and stores the area information including at least one of the state change information of the electronic device at the specific area the information on the measured Wi Fi AP list the information on the signal intensity of the Wi Fi AP and the position information of the specific area at step .

For example when the electronic device designates a bus stop as the specific area the electronic device maps information on a Wi Fi AP list and a Wi Fi AP signal intensity measured at the bus stop with position information of the bus stop and stores the information on the Wi Fi AP list and the Wi Fi AP signal intensity measured at the bus stop and the position information of the bus stop. In addition the state change information e.g. telephone use and a use of a specific app of the electronic device at the bus stop may be additionally mapped and stored in the mapped information.

The electronic device extracts the POI from the specific area using the area information for the specific area at step .

For example the electronic device compares a Wi Fi AP list of the area where the electronic device is positioned and a Wi Fi AP list pre stored in the electronic device of the specific area and when a value of the comparison is greater than or equal to a critical value determines that the area is an area corresponding to the pre stored Wi Fi AP list. The electronic device calculates the number of visits to the specific area and when the number of visits is greater than or equal to a critical value the electronic device determines that the specific area is the POI.

When the electronic device determines that the area where the electronic device is positioned and the pre stored specific area are the same the electronic device identifies how long the electronic device stays in specific area and when the identified time is equal to or longer than a critical value the electronic device determines that the specific area is the POI.

Referring to the electronic device extracts position information for the current position of the electronic device at step . For example the electronic device matches an event generation point on a GPS coordinate and stores the event generation point. Thus the electronic device identifies event generation point of the electronic device through the GPS coordinate . The event generation point may be determined according to the state change information of the electronic device . For example the event generation point may be a place where the electronic device executes a specific app or the electronic device executes a telephone call function. In addition when the electronic device stays at a point for a predetermined time the point may be the event generation point .

The electronic device extract the number of the specific areas using the grid map based clustering at step . For example the electronic device extracts the number of the specific areas using grid map based clustering of an area where the event generation point of the electronic device on the GPS coordinate are concentrated. For example the grid map based clustering may designate an area group according to a predetermined condition with respect to randomly distributed position information. The number of the specific areas on the GPS coordinate may be six or more or less than six.

Thus the electronic device extracts the specific area using K means clustering to which the number of specific areas is applied at step .

For example the electronic device determines six which is the number of the extracted specific areas as a random constant of the K means clustering and extracts a specific area on the GPS coordinate using the K means clustering. For example the K means clustering determines an area group and a central position of the area group according to the random constant. The electronic device maps the state information of the electronic device with the position information at the specific area and stores the state information of the electronic device and the position information at the specific area. The extraction of the specific area by the electronic device is for minimizing a calculation amount of the electronic device and for increasing an accuracy of an extraction of the POI.

Referring to the electronic device compares an intensity of a Wi Fi AP list of an area where the electronic device is positioned with an intensity of a Wi Fi AP list pre stored in the electronic device and determines a similarity between the Wi Fi list included in the AP information and the Wi Fi AP list pre stored in the electronic device at step .

When the similarity is greater than or equal to a predetermined value determines that the area correspond to pre stored Wi Fi AP list at step .

For example Table 2 shows the Wi Fi AP list the Wi Fi AP intensity and the position information of the area where the electronic device is positioned and the Wi Fi AP list the Wi Fi AP intensity and the position information pre stored in the electronic device .

Referring to Table 2 the electronic device compares see discussion above a Wi Fi AP list of an area where the electronic device is positioned and a Wi Fi AP list pre stored in the electronic device using the Wi Fi AP list the Wi Fi AP intensity and the position information of the area where the electronic device is positioned and the Wi Fi AP list the Wi Fi AP intensity and the position information pre stored in the electronic device.

For example the comparison may be determined by comparing each signal intensity high medium and low of the Wi Fi APs a b and c of the area where the electronic device is positioned with each signal intensity high high and medium of the Wi Fi AP a b and d pre stored in the electronic device. For example even though c of the Wi Fi AP of the area where the electronic device is positioned is different from d of the Wi Fi AP pre stored in the electronic device i.e. the comparison is greater than a predetermined critical value it may be determined that the area is the area equal to the pre stored area.

The electronic device calculates the number of visits to the area and when the number of visits is greater than or equal to a critical value the electronic device determines that the area is the POI at step . For example the electronic device calculates the number of visits to the area determined to be the same as a POI and when the calculated number of visits is greater than or equal to the predetermined critical value the electronic device determines that the area is the POI. The electronic device calculates how long the electronic device stays in the area determined to be the same as the POI and when the calculated time is equal to or longer than the predetermined critical value the electronic device determines that the area is the POI.

Referring to the electronic device identifies area information for a position of the electronic device . The electronic device determines whether the electronic device enters a POI using the AP information in the area information. The electronic device compares the Wi Fi AP list and the Wi Fi AP signal intensity information in the area information with the pre stored and mapped AP information and when the comparison between the stored AP information and the Wi Fi AP list and the Wi Fi AP signal intensity information in the area information is greater than or equal to a critical value the electronic device determines that the area is the same as the POI.

When the electronic device enters the POI the electronic device replaces the Wi Fi AP list and the Wi Fi signal intensity information corresponding to the pre stored area with the Wi Fi list and the Wi Fi signal intensity information for the area and stores the Wi Fi list and the Wi Fi signal intensity information for the area at step . The electronic device maps the number of visits to the area the type of the app activated in the area and the number of activations of the app and stores the number of visits to the area the type of the app activated in the area and the number of activations of the app at step . Thus the electronic device determines a representative app corresponding to the area and a representative Wi Fi AP corresponding to the area at step . The electronic device deletes the signal intensity information of the Wi Fi AP information on the number of visits to the area information on the type of the app activated in the area and information on the number of activations of the app except for the representative app and the representative Wi Fi AP at step .

For example the electronic device displays a lock state screen including a configuration of the electronic device and an app .

As another example the electronic device display a PMP screen including individual information for the POI e.g. a medium conference room . For example the individual information may include memo contents information input directly by a user in the POI or the like.

As another example the electronic device may display a PMP route screen including individual information and for the POIs e.g. a medium conference room . For example when the POI is stored as a small conference room ex. Room No. 1 a medium conference room ex. Room No. 2 and a large conference room ex. Room No. 3 the individual information including information on the last visit date and the length of stay in each POI can be displayed a screen .

As another example the electronic device displays a screen including a POI . The POI may include for example IDEA ROOM6 OA ROOM a household appliance stop a medium conference room a bathroom and the like.

Referring to the communication protocol includes a device discovery protocol a capability exchange protocol a network protocol and an application protocol .

The device discovery protocol may be a protocol that allows the electronic devices to detect an external electronic device e.g. external electronic device capable of communicating therewith or to connect the detected external electronic device thereto. For example the electronic device detects the electronic device as a device capable of communicating through a usable communication method e.g. Wi Fi BT USB or the like with the electronic device using the device discovery protocol . For communication with the electronic device the electronic device acquires and stores identification information on the detected electronic device using the device discovery protocol . The electronic device establishes the communication with the electronic device based on the identification information.

The device discovery protocol may be a protocol for mutual authentication between a plurality of electronic devices. For example the electronic device performs an authentication between the electronic device and the electronic device based on communication information for example a Media Access Control MAC address a Universally Unique IDentifier UUID a SubSystem IDentification SSID and an Information Provider IP address for the connection with the electronic device .

The capability exchange protocol may be a protocol for exchanging information related to a service function which can be supported by at least one of the electronic device and the electronic device . For example the electronic device and the electronic device may mutually exchange information related to currently provided service functions through the capability exchange protocol . The exchangeable information may include identification information indicating a particular service from among a plurality of services which can be supported by the electronic device or the electronic device . For example the electronic device receives identification information of a particular service provided by the electronic device from the electronic device through the capability exchange protocol . The first electronic device determines whether the electronic device supports the particular service based on the received identification information.

The network protocol may be a protocol for controlling a flow of data transmitted and received in order to interlock and provide a service between the electronic devices . For example the electronic device and or the electronic device controls an error or data quality using the network protocol . Additionally or alternatively the network protocol determines a transmission format of data transmitted received between the electronic device and the electronic device . In addition using the network protocol the electronic device and or the electronic device performs session management e.g. session connection or session termination for data exchange between the electronic devices.

The application protocol may be a protocol for providing a procedure or information for exchanging data related to a service provided to an external electronic device. For example the electronic device or the electronic device provides a service to the electronic device through the application protocol .

The communication protocol may include a standard communication protocol a communication protocol designated by an individual or organization for example a communication protocol self designated by a communication device manufacturing company or a network supplying company or a combination thereof.

The electronic device may constitute for example all or a part of the electronic device illustrated in . The electronic device may include at least one Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input module a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP controls a plurality of hardware or software components connected thereto by driving an operating system or an application program process various types of data including multimedia data and perform calculations. The AP may be embodied in a System on Chip SoC . The AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module performs data transmission reception in a communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or the server connected thereto through a network. The communication module includes a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call an SMS service an Internet service and the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . Also the cellular module identifies and authenticates an electronic device in a communication network by using for example the SIM card . The cellular module performs at least some functions which the AP can provide. For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of the multimedia control function.

The cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Furthermore the cellular module may be embodied in a SoC. Although the elements such as the cellular module e.g. the communication processor the memory and the power management module are illustrated to be separate from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some of the above described elements e.g. the cellular module according to one embodiment.

The AP or the cellular module for example a communication processor loads to a volatile memory commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other component elements connected thereto and may processes the loaded commands or data. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module stores in a non volatile memory data received from or generated by at least one of the other components.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as separate blocks in at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included on one IC or one IC package. For example at least some e.g. the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and the Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be implemented by one SoC.

The RF module transmits receives data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Also the RF module may further include a component for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves in a free space in a wireless communication for example a conductor a conductive wire or the like. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card including a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device . The SIM card may include unique identification information for example an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an International Mobile Subscriber IDentity IMSI .

The memory includes an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like .

The internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. The electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operating state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information into an electronic signal. The sensor module may include but is not limited to a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor a color sensor H for example a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor or the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor included in the sensor module .

The input device includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input through at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an ultrasonic type method. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the instance of the capacitive type touch panel physical contact or proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using the same or similar method for receiving a user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device that can identify data by generating an ultrasonic signal through an input tool e.g. pen and detecting a sonic wave through a microphone e.g. microphone in the electronic device and is capable of wireless recognition. The electronic device may also receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or server connected thereto using the communication module .

The display for example the display includes a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may also be configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. For example the screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device . The display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module bilaterally converts a sound and an electronic signal. At least some elements of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module processes voice information input or output through for example the speaker a receiver earphones or the microphone .

The camera module photographs a still image and a video. The camera module includes one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from a charger. The charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. Examples of the wireless charging method may include a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type or an electromagnetic wave type and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit or a rectifier circuit may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example the remaining amount of battery life a charging voltage and current or temperature. The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate particular states e.g. a booting state a message state a charging state etc. of the electronic device or a part e.g. the AP of the electronic device . The motor may convert an electrical signal into mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit for example a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting mobile TV may process media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

The aforementioned elements of the electronic device may be constituted by one or more components and the name of the corresponding element may vary with a type of electronic device. The electronic device may include at least one of the aforementioned elements. Some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be further included in the electronic device . Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present invention may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements prior to the combination.

At least a part of the electronic devices for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations may be embodied by for example a command stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium in a form of a programming module. When a command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The nontransitory computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

The non transitory computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disc a floppy disc and a magnetic tape optical media such as a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and a digital versatile disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specifically configured to store and execute program commands such as a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM and a flash memory. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present invention and vice versa.

A module or a programming module may include at least one of the described component elements a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

In a storage medium storing instructions the instructions are configured to perform at least one operation by at least one processor when the instructions are executed by at least one processor. At least one operation may include identifying area information for the electronic devices and determining whether the electronic devices enters a POI using AP information in the area information in a method of recognizing an area by the electronic device.

While the present invention has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it should be understood by those skilled in the art that many variations and modifications of the method and apparatus described herein will still fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

