---

title: Mobile communication devices collaborative power management
abstract: A mobile phone that coordinates power management across multiple communication devices. The mobile phone comprises a processor, a memory, long-range and short-range radio transceivers, and an application. When executed by the processor, the application receives device power reserve and device application usage information via the short-range radio transceiver from a portable communication device, and transmits the device power reserve and device application usage information, a phone power reserve and a phone application usage information via the long-range radio transceiver to a server computer. The application further receives power management instructions via the long-range radio transceiver from the server, creates a device power management command based on the power management instructions, transmits the device power management command via the short-range radio transceiver to the portable communication device, and configures the mobile phone to manage a battery power reserve of the mobile phone based on the power management instructions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407755&OS=09407755&RS=09407755
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09407755
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150211
---
Mobile phones have become common in the United States. About 90 of adults in the United States own at least one mobile phone. Additionally wireless communication coverage e.g. cellular wireless coverage within the 48 contiguous states is nearly ubiquitous cellular wireless communication service is typically available everywhere with the exception of remote rural or mountainous areas where human population is very low. Smart phones are mobile phones that have additional capabilities for example more advanced computing capability and or advanced connectivity than traditional cell phones i.e. feature phones . In addition to providing customary voice services smart phones may operate as mobile computing platforms executing applications that may be unrelated to voice or data communication. For example a smart phone may execute a GPS application that allows the user to input an address and then provides the user with directions for navigating to that address. A smart phone may execute a web browser application and provide user access to the Internet. A smart phone may promote the user downloading and installing new applications e.g. third party applications onto the smart phone and then executing those applications. A smart phone may have a large and or high resolution touch screen color display. In some surveys as many as 3 out of 5 mobile phones in the United States are now smart phones and that proportion is increasing. Smart phones provide greater functionality to users. Smart phones may provide new revenue opportunities to mobile communication service providers on line merchants and third party application developers.

New portable electronic devices are being developed and becoming commercially available to the public. Some of these portable electronic devices are capable of connecting to the cellular communication network. Some of these portable electronic devices are capable of connecting to short range radio access points such as WiFi access points or Bluetooth access points. Some of these portable electronic devices are able to connect to both the cellular communication network and to short range radio access points. These portable electronic devices may be headset computers wristwatch computers wearable computers fitness trackers or computer inserts such as electronic inserts that may fit into running shoes. In some cases these portable electronic devices may establish wireless communication links with a user s mobile phone and the mobile phone and one or more portable electronic devices belonging to the user may collaborate to provide service to the user.

In an embodiment a mobile phone that coordinates power management across multiple communication devices is disclosed. The mobile phone comprises a processor a memory a long range radio transceiver a short range radio transceiver and an application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor the application receives a device power reserve information via the short range radio transceiver from a portable communication device wherein the portable communication device is different from the mobile phone and receives a device application usage information via the short range radio transceiver from the portable communication device. The application further transmits the device power reserve information the device application usage information a phone power reserve information and a phone application usage information via the long range radio transceiver to a data analysis server computer. The application further receives power management instructions via the long range radio transceiver from the data analysis server computer creates a device power management command based on the power management instructions transmits the device power management command via the short range radio transceiver to the portable communication device and configures the mobile phone to manage a battery power reserve of the mobile phone based on the power management instructions.

In another embodiment a method of managing power collaboratively among a plurality of associated mobile communication devices is disclosed. The method comprises receiving information from a plurality of unassociated mobile phones by a mobile device collaborative power management server computer wherein the information comprises information about a battery power level of a mobile phone about applications on the mobile phone about a battery power level of a mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone and about applications on the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone and analyzing the information from the mobile phones by the server computer to determine battery power dissipation rates for different models of mobile phones based on applications on the mobile phones and to determine battery power dissipation rates for different models of mobile communication devices based on applications on the mobile communication devices. The method further comprises receiving a message by the server computer from one of the unassociated mobile phones where the message comprises an indication of a current battery power level of the mobile phone and an indication of a current battery power level of a mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone where the message indicates that the mobile phone is ready to enter a pre defined power management mode where the pre defined power management mode is associated with a pre defined set of power management rules stored by the server computer wherein the rules are associated with the mobile phone and in response to the message creating a collaborative power management command based on the current battery power level of the mobile phone based on the applications on the mobile phone based on the current battery power level of the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone and based on the applications on the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone. The method further comprises transmitting the collaborative power management command to the mobile phone whereby the server computer promotes the mobile phone managing power across the mobile phone and the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone.

In an embodiment another method of collaboratively managing battery power across multiple portable communication devices is disclosed. The method comprises collecting battery power level information from a portable communication device by a mobile phone associated with the portable communication device and collecting information about applications loaded on the portable communication device by the mobile phone. The method also comprises transmitting information about the battery power level of the portable communication device and about the applications loaded on the portable communication device by the mobile phone to a data analysis server computer transmitting information about a battery power level of the mobile phone and about applications loaded on the mobile phone by the mobile phone to the data analysis server computer and transmitting information about the mobile phone entering a different power management operation mode by the mobile phone to the data analysis server computer where the different power management operation mode is one of a plurality of power management modes pre defined in a power management profile associated with the mobile phone stored at the server. The method further comprises receiving a collaborative power management command by the mobile phone from the data analysis server computer and transmitting a command to the portable communication device by the mobile phone to one of disable an application loaded on the portable communication device and to reduce a frequency of communications by an application loaded on the portable communication device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Mobile phone devices have accustomed many users in the United States to have ubiquitous communications connectivity. In the future many users are expected to have multiple portable electronic devices that they use for various purposes. For example a user may carry a mobile phone wear one or more fitness tracker electronic devices and possibly carry one or more additional wearable or portable electronic devices at the same time or at different times. Some of the portable electronic devices have small batteries that have relatively short service cycles before their battery is discharged and the device becomes disabled. The present disclosure teaches a system to collaboratively manage power reserves among a mobile phone and one or more portable electronic device for example a mobile phone and a portable electronic device owned and used by a single user.

In an example use scenario a mobile communication subscriber may go running for exercise. The subscriber may desire to carry his or her mobile phone and also have the use of electronic fitness trackers that execute an application that monitors one or more parameters of a run. For example the application on the electronic fitness tracker may determine a distance run an estimated number of calories burned an average speed over the run a current position of the runner a map of the run and other parameters. Alternatively the electronic fitness tracker may collect and store data that may be downloaded later after the run is complete and analyzed by a separate processor such as a desktop computer or laptop computer to determine the distance run the estimated number of calories burned the average speed over the run the map of the run completed and other parameters of the completed run. The user may customarily run for about 90 minutes. A power management client on the mobile phone in response to the user indicating that he or she is going on a run communicates with a power management application on a server computer. The power management application may be referred to in some contexts as a power management hub. The client application informs the server application of the current power reserve of the phone the current power reserve of the electronic fitness tracker applications executing on the phone and the fitness trackers and the time duration during which the phone and fitness tracker will be unable to recharge their respective batteries. The server application may determine that both the phone and the fitness tracker can operate in a normal operational mode during the time interval of the run.

On the other hand the server application may determine that the electronic fitness tracker will exhaust its battery power reserve before the run is completed. In this case the server application may send a power management command to the mobile phone and the mobile phone may send a corresponding power management command to the electronic fitness tracker. The power management command may instruct the mobile phone and or the electronic fitness tracker to operate in a power conservation mode that may allow the electronic fitness tracker to continue to operate for the time duration of the run.

For example the power command may instruct the electronic fitness tracker to reduce a clock frequency of a CPU of the fitness tracker to disable some of the functionality of one or more applications that execute on the electronic fitness tracker for example to disable mapping a position of the electronic fitness tracker which may rely upon a GPS radio receiver that consumes relatively high amounts of power to handshake less frequently via a short range radio transceiver with the mobile phone to power down one or more hardware components of the electronic fitness tracker and or other power conservation behaviors. The power command may instruct the electronic fitness tracker to not run applications in the background and or to not send notifications with the exception of high priority items.

The mobile phone and one or more of a portable communication device the user takes or wears may have one or more of the same applications or functionalities. Thus there may be redundancy or overlapping of functionality among the mobile phone and the portable communication devices. The power management server application may identify this redundancy and generate a command that reduces or eliminates this redundancy for example by commanding the mobile phone to retain a first functionality and disable or deactivate a second functionality and commanding the portable communication device to disable or deactivate the first functionality and retain the second functionality. In this way the user would continue to have the benefits of both the first and second functionality but would reduce aggregate battery consumption on the mobile phone and the portable communication device.

In an example scenario a user may plan to leave his or her mobile phone home or in the car and wear only an electronic fitness tracker and or a smart wrist watch i.e. a wrist watch with cellular communication functionality . The server may send guidance to the user via a notification on the mobile phone advising the user to carry the phone because otherwise the electronic fitness tracker and or smart wrist watch would be expected to fully discharge its battery and shut down. By contrast in this scenario if the mobile phone is carried it may execute applications and provide communications connectivity and allow corresponding applications on one or more of the electronic fitness tracker and or smart wrist watch to be deactivated and communication hardware components to be powered off e.g. a cellular communication radio transceiver may be powered off .

In an embodiment the server receives power consumption reports from a large number of different mobile phones and portable electronic devices and the server application may analyze these reports to derive power consumption rates for phones and devices under different operational regimes. When the server application receives a message from a mobile phone requesting power management direction the server application can analyze the message and provide a power management command to the mobile phone based on the historical power consumption rates of like phones and devices and like operational regimes.

In an embodiment the power management client on the mobile phone may be configured to receive rules from the power management application executing on the server computer for example rules that define under what conditions different power management actions ought to be taken. In this embodiment the power management client on the mobile phone may be able to make power management decisions autonomously from the power management application executing on the server computer for example when the mobile phone may not have connectivity to the server computer. The power management client on the mobile phone may determine power levels power consumption rates priority of applications and the like and based on the rules configured in the client by the power management application executing on the server computer autonomously determine power management regimes given current conditions and user plans. It is understood that the rules provided by the power management application executing on the server computer to the power management client on the mobile phone can be adapted to the specific make and model of the mobile phone and of collaborating user devices such as the fitness tracker device used in the example above. Additionally these rules can be determined by the power management application executing on the server computer in the context of accumulated data about power management experiences from other devices.

Additionally the power data can be analyzed to develop power efficiency scores for applications and or phones. The power scores could be shared with third party developers of applications so developers could adapt their applications to be more efficient. The power scores could be shared with original equipment manufacturers OEMs of mobile phones and of portable communication devices so OEMs could adapt their electronic devices to be more efficient. Power scores could be publicly disseminated so users could choose to download relatively power efficient applications and to avoid relatively power inefficient applications. Further a service provider could provide incentives to subscribers to select power efficient applications and avoid power inefficient applications. The service provider could analyze and accumulate metrics on total power savings realized through this information distribution across its subscriber base and track this roll up metric in keeping with a company mission of being an environmentally friendly corporation.

Turning now to a system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a mobile phone one or more portable communication devices a server computer a base transceiver station BTS and a network . The mobile phone may comprise a battery a short range radio transceiver a memory storing a power management client e.g. a computer program or application and a long range radio transceiver . The portable communication device may comprise a battery a memory storing a power management client e.g. a computer program or application and a short range radio transceiver . In some embodiments one or more of the portable communication devices may comprise a long range radio transceiver and may be operable to establish a wireless communication link with the BTS . The mobile phone may be any of a feature phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA or a media player. In a preferred embodiment the mobile phone is a smart phone. The portable communication device may be any of a headset computer e.g. GOOGLEGLASS a wrist phone a wrist computer a smart watch a fitness tracker a wearable computer or other device. It is understood that the portable communication device category is in very rapid expansion at the present time and that it is not feasible to exhaustively enumerate all the devices that are contemplated to correspond with the portable communication device now and in the near future.

As used herein a short range radio transceiver may have a maximum range of about 200 feet about 300 feet or about 500 feet. Examples of known short range radio transceivers are WiFi radio transceivers and Bluetooth radio transceivers but the short range radio transceiver and of the present disclosure should not be limited to only these short range radio protocols. As used herein a long range radio transceiver may have a maximum range of about 2 miles about 5 miles or about 10 miles. Examples of known long range radio transceivers are radio transceivers that operate according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA a long term evolution LTE a global system for mobile communication GSM or a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol. It is understood however that the teachings of the present disclosure may apply to mobile phones that have a long range radio transceiver that operates according to a different wireless communication protocol and that the long range radio transceiver should not be limited to only CDMA LTE GSM and WiMAX. In some contexts long range radio transceivers may be referred to as cellular communication transceivers. It is understood that the operational range of the short range radio transceiver and a long range radio transceiver as defined herein can overlap. For example in an embodiment both a short range radio transceiver and a long range radio transceiver may be able to maintain a wireless communication link over a distance of about 200 feet.

The short range radio transceivers may establish a wireless communication link with each other promoting the mobile phone and the portable communication device communicating with each other for example promoting the power management client of the mobile phone communicating with the power management client of the portable communication device . The long range radio transceiver may establish a wireless communication link with the BTS according to one or more of CDMA LTE GSM WiMAX and or other radio communication protocols. The BTS provides connectivity of the mobile phone to the network . The network comprises one or more private networks one or more public networks or a combination thereof.

The server computer comprises a power management server application . In some contexts the power management server application and or the server computer may be referred to as a power management server or a power management hub. In an embodiment the system further comprises a battery power life data store . The battery power life data store may store data and or reports of battery usage device information and application information received from large numbers of mobile phones and portable communication devices . For example the data store may store data associated with tens of thousands hundreds of thousands or millions of wireless communication service subscribers.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile phones portable communication devices and BTSs . While a single server computer is shown in it is understood that a plurality of computers may provide the functionality of a power management server as described herein. Said in another way in an embodiment the role of a power management server is provided by a computer system that comprises a plurality of computers. Computers and computer systems are described further hereinafter. In an embodiment the role of the power management server may be supported in a cloud computing environment.

In an embodiment the power management server application the power management client on the mobile phone and the power management client s on the portable communication device s collaborate to manage power reserves of the battery on the mobile phone and the battery on the portable communication device during selected use scenarios. When the user of the phone and the devices is at home or in an office the user can be expected to charge the phone and or the devices when needed. If for example the battery of the mobile phone drops to an unusable level and the phone shuts off the user need only find their charger and plug the phone into the charger. This scenario may not constitute a selected use scenario.

During selected use scenarios however charging the battery may not be feasible for example when the user is running for tens of minutes or for more than an hour when the user is attending a sporting event such as a child s soccer game or when the user is attending an outdoor family reunion. In an embodiment the power management client on the mobile phone can be activated by the user and a user interface can be presented on a display of the mobile phone . The user may identify a period of time that he or she will be unable to recharge the mobile phone and the portable communication device .

In an embodiment the user may be able to identify or select using the user interface of the power management client a particular kind of activity and parameters related to the activity. For example the user may be able to identify a running activity and a distance estimated to be traveled during the run. The user may identify if he or she will carry the mobile phone during the activity and or carry one or more of the devices . Said in another way the user may identify the phone and or the devices that will be used and for which collaborative power management is desired during the activity. In some circumstances the user may leave his or her mobile phone in the car or at home and only carry the portable communication device such as a headset computer and or an electronic fitness tracker.

Having provided these inputs to the power management client the user may select for the client to begin collaborative power management. The power management client on the mobile phone may request the power management client on the portable communication device to report the present power reserve of the battery of the device via a wireless communication link established between the short range radio transceivers . The power management client on the mobile phone may request the power management client on the portable communication device to report active applications and active hardware components on the device . The power management client on the mobile phone may determine a present power reserve of the battery of the mobile phone . The power management client on the mobile phone may identify active applications and active hardware components on the phone .

The power management client on the mobile phone may then transmit a request via the long range radio transceiver to the BTS from the BTS to the network and from the network to the power management server application to provide collaborative power management guidance or commands to the mobile phone . The request transmitted by the power management client to the power management server application may comprise the information on the present power reserves of the batteries as well as the planned activity and any parameters of the activity that the user may have input. The request may further comprise information about applications and or hardware components that are active on the devices and or the mobile phone .

The power management server application accesses the battery power life data store to obtain historical information germane to the collaborative power management scenario defined by the request received from the mobile phone . The historical information may be individual reports of power usage phone models device models applications active hardware components active. Alternatively the historical information may be summarizing information that comprises condensed information for example averages of power dissipation rates based on phone models device models battery power reserves active applications and or active hardware components.

Based on the information provided in the request from the mobile phone and based on the historical information accessed from the data store the power management server application generates a collaborative power management command and sends this command to the power management client on the mobile phone . The power management server application may take into consideration that the same functionality may be provided by two or more of the mobile phone and the one or more devices and generate a power management command that reduces or eliminates redundancy of functionality among the phone and the devices . Redundant functionality may also be referred to in some contexts as overlapping functionality.

Part of the power management command may comprise a notification to the mobile phone to present a message or notification to the user of the phone . For example the power management command may urge the user to carry his or her mobile phone if they were planning on leaving the phone at home or in the car. In response to seeing this notification the user may complete another interaction with the user interface and revise the power management collaboration scenario he or she had previously defined for example noting that he or she will carry the mobile phone on the run.

The power management server application may further determine a current state of the cellular wireless communication network for example by sending a request that information to another server in the wireless communication service provider s network. The power management server application optionally generates the collaborative power management command further based on the current state of the cellular wireless communication network or a portion of the cellular wireless communication network that affects the mobile phone and or the portable communication devices .

The power management client on the mobile phone processes the collaborative power management command received from the power management server application . In an embodiment the collaborative power management command embeds explicit commands for one or more of the portable communication devices . In this case the power management client on the mobile phone transmits these explicit commands to the devices . Alternatively in an embodiment the power management client is responsible for interpreting the collaborative power management command received from the power management server application and for creating appropriate commands to send to the devices based on the command it received from the power management server application . Alternatively if some of the portable communication devices have long range radio transceivers the power management server application may send a power management command to a portable communication device via a cellular wireless link containing explicit commands for managing power usage of the battery of the subject portable communication device .

In an embodiment the mobile phone may not be able to communicate with the power management server application for example when the mobile phone is out of wireless coverage by the BTS and may autonomously generate a collaborative power management command. The power management client on the mobile phone may be configured by the power management server application with rules to apply in such a situation e.g. when the phone is unable to communicate with the power management server application . Based on these rules and based on the information about the power and or battery reserves the power management client may generate a collaborative power management command in lieu of receiving the same from the power management server application .

The commands to the devices may command one or more of the devices to enter a power conservation mode of operation. The commands to the devices may command that one or more of the hardware components be turned off by the subject device . The commands to the devices may command that one or more of the applications active on the subject device be deactivated. For example one or more of the devices may be commanded to turn off an application that is active on the mobile phone and hence executing the same application on the device may be uselessly redundant . One or more of the devices may be commanded to turn off applications executing in the background. One or more of the devices may be commanded to reduce the frequency of transmissions using the short range radio transceiver for example a frequency of status message transmissions. One or more of the devices may be commanded to reduce a power amplification level of the short range radio transceiver . One or more of the devices may be commanded to discontinue sending notifications or to discontinue sending notifications that are not high priority. The power management commands may accomplish their functions by invoking functions provided by the operating system of the devices and or by invoking functions provided by application programming interfaces APIs of one or more of the applications executing on the devices .

The power management client on the mobile phone also configures the phone based on the command received from the power management server application . The client may command the phone to enter a power conservation mode of operation. The client may deactivate some applications on the mobile phone possibly based on awareness that the same application is active on one of the devices . The client may reduce a power level of an amplifier of the long range radio transceiver . The client may reduce the frequency with which it conducts handshaking with the BTS . The client may temporarily change some settings on the phone for example a brightness of a visual display a display dimming time frame and other settings. The power management commands may accomplish their functions by invoking functions provided by the operating system of the mobile phone and or by invoking functions provided by application programming interfaces APIs of one or more of the applications executing on the mobile phone .

When the activity is over when the run is selected the power management client on the mobile phone may send a power management command to the one or more portable communication devices to resume normal power use mode e.g. to discontinue power conservation mode of operation and to reactivate hardware components of the devices that had been deactivated. Alternatively the power management server application may send a power management command to the mobile phone after the activity is over instructing the mobile phone and or the portable communication devices to resume normal power use mode and to reactivate hardware components of the phone and or devices that had been deactivated.

The completion of the activity may be detected based on expiration of a timer or triggered by detection of some other event. For example detection of the position of the mobile phone and or one or more of the devices at a particular position a location of a car a location of a personal residence or other position may act as a triggering event.

In an embodiment the power management server application generates power commands in response to the request from the mobile phone based on a power management profile and or on power management rules defined by a user of the mobile phone . For example in an embodiment the user may employ a user browser to access a web application hosted by the power management server computer or hosted by another computer. The user may build a power management profile and or define power management rules using a user interface provided by the web application . The user browser may be executed on the mobile phone on a desktop computer on a laptop computer on a tablet computer on a notebook computer or on some other execution platform that the use has available. The rules that the user enters and or defines via the user interface provided by the web application may be referred to in some contexts as pre defined rules e.g. they are pre defined with reference to the point in time that the power management server application accesses them to use in generating power commands .

The user may define or identify a plurality of different power management scenarios that may be selected when collaborative power management mediated or controlled by the power management server application is desired. The user may define for example an outdoor exercise mode or scenario. Alternatively the user may define a more specific scenario for example a running scenario or a plurality of running scenarios. For example a marathon runner may define a plurality of different running scenarios for different training distances. For each defined power management scenario the user may define parameters of the activity for example an estimated duration of time that the user will be away from battery charging facilities mobile applications that the user desires to be active during the activity and electronics that the user wishes to carry with him or her during the activity. For example the user may define that he or she will carry or wear the mobile phone and a fitness tracker device . Alternatively the user may define that he or she will not carry the mobile phone and will only carry or wear a fitness tracker device .

The user may define the power management scenarios to include a prioritization of active applications and or active hardware components for the mobile phone and or the portable electronic devices . The prioritizations may be used by the power management server application to choose what applications and which hardware components to deactivate during a collaborative power management session for example when there is no power management solution that meets all the desired functionality of the user.

For example it may be that allowing all the applications to execute on the portable communication device as defined by the user in the power management scenario during a 3 hour run is not feasible e.g. the battery power of the portable communication device would be depleted before the end of the run and the power management server application must choose to deactivate some but not all of these applications. This prioritization of active applications and active hardware components may be used by the power management server application to make these choices. A power management scenario may also be referred to as a pre defined set of power management rules. The user may define rules for what to do when unexpected situations arrive. For example the user may define rules for what the power management server application does when the user contrary to a selected pre defined scenario forgets his or her mobile phone in the car. This condition may be detected when a short range radio link between the mobile phone and one or more of the portable communication devices is broken e.g. handshaking fails over this short range radio link due to the excessive distance between the mobile phone and the subject device .

The power management client on the mobile phone may report battery power consumption information to the power management server application . The client may transmit this battery report periodically or when requested by the server . The client transmits this battery report one per hour once per day once per week once per month or on some other periodic interval. The power management client on the mobile phone may request polling or pulling battery power consumption information from the power management client on the portable communication devices periodically. Alternatively the power management client on the portable communication devices may periodically report pushing battery power consumption information on their own initiative. The battery power consumption information may include battery power reserves over time as well as information on active applications and active hardware components. The information may identify firmware versions and or software versions installed on the mobile phone and or the devices . The information may also include information about charging cycles. In an embodiment one or more of the power management clients on the portable communication devices may transmit power data to the power management server application without passing through the mobile phone for example in the case that the subject portable communication device has a long range radio transceiver and can establish a cellular communication link with the BTS .

In an embodiment the power management server application analyzes the battery power consumption information written to the data store and scores mobile applications on their power efficiency. The power efficiency scores may be a general score for a mobile application and or scores specific to execution platforms. For example the power efficiency score for a given application may be different when executed on a mobile phone versus when executed on a particular portable communication device . In a preferred embodiment power efficiency scores are linked to a particular model of a mobile phone or to a particular model of a portable communication device . The power efficiency scores may also be linked to a firmware version and or a software version of the mobile phone or the device .

In an embodiment the power efficiency score may be determined as a score relative to the power efficiency of other applications executing on the same platform. The power efficiency scores may be provided to third party developers of mobile applications so they can adapt their applications in future releases to align with peer applications. The power efficiency scores may be used by original equipment manufacturers OEMs of mobile phones and or by wireless communication service providers to choose what mobile applications to pre load on the mobile phones and or the portable communication devices .

The power efficiency scores may also be used for other purposes. For example the power efficiency scores may be indicated in an application store maintained by a wireless communication service provider and users may choose applications to download and install on their mobile phones and or portable communication devices based at least in part on their efficiency score. The users could also compare the power efficiency scores posted in the application store which would be averages across many user devices to the specific power efficiency score of applications on their own devices. If the user s power efficiency scores are significantly below the posted scores across most or all of their applications loaded on their device the user could infer that his or her battery needs replacement or possibly that his or her device needs replacement.

The wireless communication service provider may offer incentives to subscribers to select power efficient applications versus power inefficient applications as part of a company wide mission to be environmentally friendly. The wireless communication service provider may analyze user behavior and determine an aggregate power saving across all subscribers that accrues from the incentive program to quantify the contribution to a clean environment.

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive information from a plurality of unassociated mobile phones by a mobile device collaborative power management server computer wherein the information comprises information about a battery power level of a mobile phone about applications on the mobile phone about a battery power level of a portable communication device associated with the mobile phone and about applications on the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone.

By unassociated it is meant the mobile phones are owned by different users. Two unassociated mobile phones may be a first mobile phone owned by a husband and a second mobile phone owned by a wife where the husband and wife are married to each other. The husband may have one or more portable communication devices that are associated with the first mobile phone but not associated with the second mobile phone and the wife may have one or more portable communication devices that are associated with the second mobile phone but not associated with the first mobile phone. The plurality of unassociated mobile phones may be any number of mobile phones but it is expected that the number may be a relatively large number as the system described above with reference to is deployed and is adopted by the user community. It is hoped that the number of mobile phones participating in the collaborative power management system may exceed 10 000 exceed 100 000 or even in time exceed 1 000 000.

At block analyze the information from the mobile phones by the server computer to determine battery power dissipation rates for different models of mobile phones based on applications on the mobile phones and to determine battery power dissipation rates for different models of mobile communication devices based on applications on the mobile communication devices.

At block receive a message by the server computer from one of the unassociated mobile phones where the message comprises an indication of a current battery power level of the mobile phone and an indication of a current battery power level of a mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone where the message indicates that the mobile phone is ready to enter a pre defined power management mode where the pre defined power management mode is associated with a pre defined set of power management rules stored by the server computer wherein the rules are associated with the mobile phone. At block in response to the message create a collaborative power management command based on the current battery power level of the mobile phone based on the applications on the mobile phone based on the current battery power level of the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone and based on the applications on the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone. At block transmit the collaborative power management command to the mobile phone whereby the server computer promotes the mobile phone managing power across the mobile phone and the mobile communication device associated with the mobile phone.

While the example used above to illustrate the quality of two mobile phones being unassociated spoke of unassociated mobile phones belonging to a husband and wife it is contemplated that in some case the collaborative power management system may advantageously associate two mobile phones for example two mobile phones of a husband and wife. Alternatively the two mobile phones may belong to a parent and a child to two college roommates or to two business colleagues. In the situation of two or more associated mobile phones the collaborative power management construct is extended so there may be a reduction in redundancy of functionality across the two or more associated mobile phones to the purpose of conserving battery life of mobile phones and or portable communication devices during a time when recharging from mains power is not feasible. Thus possibly two college roommates go on a hike. The mobile phone of the first roommate is commanded to keep voice communication functionality active but to disable GPS functionality. The mobile phone of the second roommate is commanded to disable voice communication functionality but to keep GPS functionality active. Thus between the two mobile phones the community of the two roommates has access to voice communication functionality and use of the GPS.

Turning now to a method is described. At block collect battery power level information from a portable communication device by a mobile phone associated with the portable communication device. At block collect information about applications loaded on the portable communication device by the mobile phone. At block transmit information about the battery power level of the portable communication device and about the applications loaded on the portable communication device by the mobile phone to a data analysis server computer.

At block transmit information about a battery power level of the mobile phone and about applications loaded on the mobile phone by the mobile phone to the data analysis server computer. At block transmit information about the mobile phone entering a different power management operation mode by the mobile phone to the data analysis server computer where the different power management operation mode is one of a plurality of power management modes pre defined in a power management profile associated with the mobile phone stored at the server. At block receive a collaborative power management command by the mobile phone from the data analysis server computer. At block transmit a command to the portable communication device by the mobile phone to one of disable an application loaded on the portable communication device and to reduce a frequency of communications by an application loaded on the portable communication device.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations. In an embodiment the device may comprise a near field communication NFC transceiver. The NFC transceiver may be used to complete payment transactions with point of sale terminals or other communications exchanges. In an embodiment the device may comprise a radio frequency identify RFID reader and or writer device.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

Additionally after the system is turned on or booted the CPU may execute a computer program or application. For example the CPU may execute software or firmware stored in the ROM or stored in the RAM . In some cases on boot and or when the application is initiated the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from the secondary storage to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU itself and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. In some cases the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from memory accessed via the network connectivity devices or via the I O devices to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. During execution an application may load instructions into the CPU for example load some of the instructions of the application into a cache of the CPU . In some contexts an application that is executed may be said to configure the CPU to do something e.g. to configure the CPU to perform the function or functions promoted by the subject application. When the CPU is configured in this way by the application the CPU becomes a specific purpose computer or a specific purpose machine.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards that promote radio communications using protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX near field communications NFC radio frequency identity RFID and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage flash drive ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

