---

title: Post-capture selection of media type
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a user input, the user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item. The method also includes, in response to the user input, initiating the capturing of the multimedia content item. The method also includes, after the capturing is complete, presenting a plurality of media types to select from. The method further includes receiving a selection of one of the media types. The method also includes, in response to the received selection, encoding one or more portions of the captured multimedia content item in accordance with the media-type selection to produce a corresponding encoded media object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479696&OS=09479696&RS=09479696
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09479696
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150624
---
A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may send over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass gyroscope or accelerometer. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments a computing device e.g. a smartphone may allow a user to capture a multimedia content item and then after capture is complete review the multimedia content item and then select a media type for the multimedia content item. A user may initiate capture of the multimedia content item by providing a user input to a computing device e.g. a touch input or a particular motion of the device and the device may automatically begin capturing the multimedia content item in response to receiving the user input. With a post capture selection process a user may not specify whether they want to capture a video an image a GIF or any other suitable media type until after the capture is completed. The user may perform a media type selection after the multimedia content has been captured and the user need not select a media type prior to capturing the content. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to a request to capture multimedia content a computing device may capture a video and after the capture is complete the device may display a post capture selection screen where the user may select a media type e.g. video photo or GIF for export. If a user selects a photo media type the user may scroll through frames of the captured video to select one or more frames to be extracted as still images. If a user selects a video or GIF media type the user may identify a portion or excerpt of the captured video to be extracted as a video or as a GIF animation. An encoding process may then be performed to produce an encoded media object from a selected portion of the captured content where the encoded media object has the media type selected by the user. The encoded media object may be uploaded or shared via a social networking system.

The embodiments disclosed above are only examples and the scope of this disclosure is not limited to them. Particular embodiments may include all some or none of the components elements features functions operations or steps of the embodiments disclosed above. Embodiments according to the invention are in particular disclosed in the attached claims directed to a method a storage medium a system and a computer program product wherein any feature mentioned in one claim category e.g. method can be claimed in another claim category e.g. system as well. The dependencies or references back in the attached claims are chosen for formal reasons only. However any subject matter resulting from a deliberate reference back to any previous claims in particular multiple dependencies can be claimed as well so that any combination of claims and the features thereof are disclosed and can be claimed regardless of the dependencies chosen in the attached claims. The subject matter which can be claimed comprises not only the combinations of features as set out in the attached claims but also any other combination of features in the claims wherein each feature mentioned in the claims can be combined with any other feature or combination of other features in the claims. Furthermore any of the embodiments and features described or depicted herein can be claimed in a separate claim and or in any combination with any embodiment or feature described or depicted herein or with any of the features of the attached claims.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader a Global Positioning System GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . As an example and not by way of limitation client system may access social networking system using a web browser or a native application associated with social networking system e.g. a mobile social networking application a messaging application another suitable application or any combination thereof either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system to whom they want to be connected. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. check in causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. a check in type edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship including e.g. liking etc. follower relationship visitor relationship including e.g. accessing viewing checking in sharing etc. subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine the social graph affinity which may be referred to herein as affinity of various social graph entities for each other. Affinity may represent the strength of a relationship or level of interest between particular objects associated with the online social network such as users concepts content actions advertisements other objects associated with the online social network or any suitable combination thereof. Affinity may also be determined with respect to objects associated with third party systems or other suitable systems. An overall affinity for a social graph entity for each user subject matter or type of content may be established. The overall affinity may change based on continued monitoring of the actions or relationships associated with the social graph entity. Although this disclosure describes determining particular affinities in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining any suitable affinities in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may measure or quantify social graph affinity using an affinity coefficient which may be referred to herein as coefficient . The coefficient may represent or quantify the strength of a relationship between particular objects associated with the online social network. The coefficient may also represent a probability or function that measures a predicted probability that a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. In this way a user s future actions may be predicted based on the user s prior actions where the coefficient may be calculated at least in part a the history of the user s actions. Coefficients may be used to predict any number of actions which may be within or outside of the online social network. As an example and not by way of limitation these actions may include various types of communications such as sending messages posting content or commenting on content various types of a observation actions such as accessing or viewing profile pages media or other suitable content various types of coincidence information about two or more social graph entities such as being in the same group tagged in the same photograph checked in at the same location or attending the same event or other suitable actions. Although this disclosure describes measuring affinity in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates measuring affinity in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may use a variety of factors to calculate a coefficient. These factors may include for example user actions types of relationships between objects location information other suitable factors or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments different factors may be weighted differently when calculating the coefficient. The weights for each factor may be static or the weights may change according to for example the user the type of relationship the type of action the user s location and so forth. Ratings for the factors may be combined according to their weights to determine an overall coefficient for the user. As an example and not by way of limitation particular user actions may be assigned both a rating and a weight while a relationship associated with the particular user action is assigned a rating and a correlating weight e.g. so the weights total 100 . To calculate the coefficient of a user towards a particular object the rating assigned to the user s actions may comprise for example 60 of the overall coefficient while the relationship between the user and the object may comprise 40 of the overall coefficient. In particular embodiments the social networking system may consider a variety of variables when determining weights for various factors used to calculate a coefficient such as for example the time since information was accessed decay factors frequency of access relationship to information or relationship to the object about which information was accessed relationship to social graph entities connected to the object short or long term averages of user actions user feedback other suitable variables or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation a coefficient may include a decay factor that causes the strength of the signal provided by particular actions to decay with time such that more recent actions are more relevant when calculating the coefficient. The ratings and weights may be continuously updated based on continued tracking of the actions upon which the coefficient is based. Any type of process or algorithm may be employed for assigning combining averaging and so forth the ratings for each factor and the weights assigned to the factors. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine coefficients using machine learning algorithms trained on historical actions and past user responses or data farmed from users by exposing them to various options and measuring responses. Although this disclosure describes calculating coefficients in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates calculating coefficients in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on a user s actions. Social networking system may monitor such actions on the online social network on a third party system on other suitable systems or any combination thereof. Any suitable type of user actions may be tracked or monitored. Typical user actions include viewing profile pages creating or posting content interacting with content tagging or being tagged in images joining groups listing and confirming attendance at events checking in at locations liking particular pages creating pages and performing other tasks that facilitate social action. In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on the user s actions with particular types of content. The content may be associated with the online social network a third party system or another suitable system. The content may include users profile pages posts news stories headlines instant messages chat room conversations emails advertisements pictures video music other suitable objects or any combination thereof. Social networking system may analyze a user s actions to determine whether one or more of the actions indicate an affinity for subject matter content other users and so forth. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user may make frequently posts content related to coffee or variants thereof social networking system may determine the user has a high coefficient with respect to the concept coffee . Particular actions or types of actions may be assigned a higher weight and or rating than other actions which may affect the overall calculated coefficient. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user emails a second user the weight or the rating for the action may be higher than if the first user simply views the user profile page for the second user.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on the type of relationship between particular objects. Referencing the social graph social networking system may analyze the number and or type of edges connecting particular user nodes and concept nodes when calculating a coefficient. As an example and not by way of limitation user nodes that are connected by a spouse type edge representing that the two users are married may be assigned a higher coefficient than a user nodes that are connected by a friend type edge. In other words depending upon the weights assigned to the actions and relationships for the particular user the overall affinity may be determined to be higher for content about the user s spouse than for content about the user s friend. In particular embodiments the relationships a user has with another object may affect the weights and or the ratings of the user s actions with respect to calculating the coefficient for that object. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user is tagged in first photo but merely likes a second photo social networking system may determine that the user has a higher coefficient with respect to the first photo than the second photo because having a tagged in type relationship with content may be assigned a higher weight and or rating than having a like type relationship with content. In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient for a first user based on the relationship one or more second users have with a particular object. In other words the connections and coefficients other users have with an object may affect the first user s coefficient for the object. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user is connected to or has a high coefficient for one or more second users and those second users are connected to or have a high coefficient for a particular object social networking system may determine that the first user should also have a relatively high coefficient for the particular object. In particular embodiments the coefficient may be based on the degree of separation between particular objects. The lower coefficient may represent the decreasing likelihood that the first user will share an interest in content objects of the user that is indirectly connected to the first user in the social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation social graph entities that are closer in the social graph i.e. fewer degrees of separation may have a higher coefficient than entities that are further apart in the social graph .

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on location information. Objects that are geographically closer to each other may be considered to be more related or of more interest to each other than more distant objects. In particular embodiments the coefficient of a user towards a particular object may be based on the proximity of the object s location to a current location associated with the user or the location of a client system of the user . A first user may be more interested in other users or concepts that are closer to the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user is one mile from an airport and two miles from a gas station social networking system may determine that the user has a higher coefficient for the airport than the gas station based on the proximity of the airport to the user.

In particular embodiments social networking system may perform particular actions with respect to a user based on coefficient information. Coefficients may be used to predict whether a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. A coefficient may be used when generating or presenting any type of objects to a user such as advertisements search results news stories media messages notifications or other suitable objects. The coefficient may also be utilized to rank and order such objects as appropriate. In this way social networking system may provide information that is relevant to user s interests and current circumstances increasing the likelihood that they will find such information of interest. In particular embodiments social networking system may generate content based on coefficient information. Content objects may be provided or selected based on coefficients specific to a user. As an example and not by way of limitation the coefficient may be used to generate media for the user where the user may be presented with media for which the user has a high overall coefficient with respect to the media object. As another example and not by way of limitation the coefficient may be used to generate advertisements for the user where the user may be presented with advertisements for which the user has a high overall coefficient with respect to the advertised object. In particular embodiments social networking system may generate search results based on coefficient information. Search results for a particular user may be scored or ranked based on the coefficient associated with the search results with respect to the querying user. As an example and not by way of limitation search results corresponding to objects with higher coefficients may be ranked higher on a search results page than results corresponding to objects having lower coefficients.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient in response to a request for a coefficient from a particular system or process. To predict the likely actions a user may take or may be the subject of in a given situation any process may request a calculated coefficient for a user. The request may also include a set of weights to use for various factors used to calculate the coefficient. This request may come from a process running on the online social network from a third party system e.g. via an API or other communication channel or from another suitable system. In response to the request social networking system may calculate the coefficient or access the coefficient information if it has previously been calculated and stored . In particular embodiments social networking system may measure an affinity with respect to a particular process. Different processes both internal and external to the online social network may request a coefficient for a particular object or set of objects. Social networking system may provide a measure of affinity that is relevant to the particular process that requested the measure of affinity. In this way each process receives a measure of affinity that is tailored for the different context in which the process will use the measure of affinity.

In connection with social graph affinity and affinity coefficients particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed 11 Aug. 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 977 027 filed 22 Dec. 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed 23 Dec. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 632 869 filed 1 Oct. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments computing device may include one or more integrated cameras or an interface to one or more external cameras. As an example and not by way of limitation computing device may include a camera for capturing multimedia content. In particular embodiments capturing multimedia content may refer to a process of obtaining or recording images or video from a camera. In particular embodiments computing device may include a microphone for capturing sound or audio input e.g. music a person s voice or ambient sound . In particular embodiments capturing multimedia content may refer to a process of obtaining or recording sound from a microphone. As an example and not by way of limitation when capturing multimedia content computing device may record video from a camera while also recording audio input from a microphone. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular devices configured to capture particular multimedia content this disclosure contemplates any suitable devices configured to capture any suitable multimedia content.

In particular embodiments computing device may include one or more digital cameras where a digital camera may refer to a device that records captures or stores images or videos in a digital format. Herein the term camera may refer to a digital camera and the term video or digital video may refer to a video recorded captured or stored in a digital format. In particular embodiments a camera may include an image sensor such as for example a charge coupled device CCD image sensor or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS active pixel sensor. In particular embodiments computing device may include display screen for viewing a live scene from a camera e.g. prior to capturing or while capturing multimedia content as well as for viewing captured multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation computing device may include a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display or any other suitable display.

In particular embodiments computing device may include a touch sensor that may detect a presence or location of a touch or an object e.g. a user s finger or a stylus located near or in contact with a surface of the touch sensor. In particular embodiments screen may be a touch screen that includes a display and a touch sensor where the touch sensor allows a user to interact with device or what is displayed on touch screen using a stylus or the user s finger. As an example and not by way of limitation touch screen may include a substantially transparent touch sensor layer overlaid on or located in front of a display. In particular embodiments information from a touch sensor of device may be used to determine that a user is requesting the capture of a multimedia content item. Similarly information from a touch sensor may be used to determine that a user is requesting the termination of capturing a multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation a first tap applied to a touch sensor of device may indicate a request to begin capturing multimedia content and a subsequent second tap may indicate a request to terminate the capture.

In particular embodiments a touch sensor of computing device may be configured to receive or detect any suitable touch input touch gesture multi touch gesture or any suitable combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation a touch sensor of computing device may be configured to detect a tap e.g. a user briefly touches a surface of the touch sensor a double tap e.g. two taps in succession a press e.g. a touch that lasts for a particular duration of time such as for example for 0.5 seconds or longer a scroll or pan e.g. sliding a finger up down or sideways across a touch sensor surface a swipe e.g. a sideways swiping motion a pinch e.g. thumb and forefinger move towards one another a zoom e.g. thumb and forefinger move apart a touch input pattern e.g. a particular series of motions of a finger across a touch sensor surface or any other suitable touch gesture.

In particular embodiments computing device may include a motion sensor that senses or detects position orientation or translational or rotational movement of device . As an example and not by way of limitation a motion sensor of device may be configured to sense rotational or translational displacement velocity or acceleration or any suitable combination thereof. As illustrated in the example of translational movement of device may include a motion along the x axis y axis or z axis or along any suitable combination of these axes. Additionally rotational movement of device may include a roll pitch or yaw motion or any suitable combination of such rotations where a roll motion corresponds to rotation about the y axis a pitch motion corresponds to rotation about the x axis and a yaw motion corresponds to a rotation about the z axis.

In particular embodiments device may include an accelerometer gyroscope magnetometer any other suitable motion sensor or any suitable combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation device may be a smartphone that includes a camera touch screen and a gyroscope sensor. In particular embodiments a motion sensor integrated with a device may include a vibrating structure gyroscope manufactured with micro electro mechanical systems MEMS technology. In particular embodiments a gyroscope may be used to determine rotational orientation or motion e.g. roll pitch or yaw motion versus time of device . In particular embodiments a gyroscope may be a rate gyroscope that determines rotational or angular velocity of device . As an example and not by way of limitation a rate gyroscope may provide data information or values that correspond to angular velocity of device in units of radians s or degrees s. In particular embodiments a magnetometer e.g. a magnetic field sensor may be used to measure orientation or rotational movement of device . A magnetometer may sense the earth s magnetic field or any other suitable substantially static magnetic field to determine an angular orientation of device . In particular embodiments an accelerometer may be used to determine a translational or rotational movement of device . As an example and not by way of limitation accelerometer sensor data may be used to determine a linear acceleration of device along any of axes x y or z illustrated in . Moreover integrating accelerometer data over a particular time interval may be used to determine a velocity of device and performing a second integration operation may allow determination of a position of device as a function of time. Although this disclosure describes particular devices having particular sensors for detecting particular motions this disclosure contemplates any suitable devices having any suitable sensors for detecting any suitable motions.

In particular embodiments a movement of device may be determined by information or values received from one or more motion sensors e.g. gyroscope magnetometer or accelerometer integrated with device . As an example and not by way of limitation information from a gyroscope may be used to determine that the orientation of device has changed from a horizontal orientation to a vertical orientation. Device may be lying flat on a surface or a user may be holding device in their hand in a substantially horizontal orientation. Then the user may pick up or point device to take a picture or record a video and a gyroscope signal may be used to determine that the orientation of device has changed from its original orientation to a substantially orthogonal orientation e.g. orientation of device has changed by approximately 90 degrees with respect to its original orientation . As another example and not by way of limitation information from an accelerometer may be used to determine that device has undergone a flick type motion where a user holding device in their hand may flick device by moving their hand or wrist in a rapid or jolting motion resulting in a corresponding flicking motion of device . A user may grasp a near end of device in their hand and a flicking motion may result in the far end of device experiencing most of the flicking action. In particular embodiments a forward or vertical flicking motion of device may include a displacement velocity or acceleration substantially along the z axis e.g. perpendicular to a surface of display screen or a pitching rotational displacement velocity or acceleration about the x axis. Additionally such a forward flicking motion may be accompanied by a relatively small amount of one or more of the following motions a sideways motion along the x axis a roll motion about the y axis or a yaw motion about the z axis. In particular embodiments a sideways flicking motion may include a motion substantially along the x axis or a yaw motion about the z axis. Additionally such a sideways flicking motion may be accompanied by a relatively small amount of one or more of the following motions a vertical motion along the z axis a roll motion about the y axis or a pitch motion about the x axis. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular motions detected by particular motion sensors this disclosure contemplates any suitable motions detected by any suitable motion sensors.

In particular embodiments device may determine that a particular motion of device has occurred based on one or more signals from one or more motion sensors. As an example and not by way of limitation device may determine that a forward flicking motion has occurred based on detecting with an accelerometer an acceleration along the z axis having a magnitude greater than a particular threshold z axis acceleration value as well as detecting an acceleration along the x axis having a magnitude less than a particular threshold x axis acceleration value. If device detects a x axis acceleration that exceeds the threshold x axis acceleration value then device may determine that the corresponding motion is not a valid forward flicking motion e.g. the detected motion does not correspond to a forward flick . As another example and not by way of limitation device may determine that a sideways flicking motion has occurred based on detecting e.g. with a gyroscope sensor a yaw motion about the z axis having an angular velocity greater than a particular threshold z axis angular velocity value as well as detecting a roll or pitch velocity that is below a particular threshold off axis angular velocity value. If device detects a pitch velocity that exceeds the threshold off axis angular velocity value then device may determine that the corresponding motion is not a valid sideways flicking motion e.g. the detected motion does not correspond to a sideways flick . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular motions determined by particular signals from particular sensors this disclosure contemplates any suitable motions determined by any suitable signals from any suitable sensors.

In particular embodiments a multimedia content item which may also be referred to as multimedia content or captured multimedia content may refer to one or more images or videos captured by device . In particular embodiments capturing an image may refer to recording or storing a digital image and capturing a video may refer to recording or storing a time series of two or more successive digital image frames. In particular embodiments recording or capturing an image or an image frame may refer to receiving an optical image in the form of light incident on an image sensor of a camera converting the received light into electronic information and storing electronic information corresponding to the received optical image. In particular embodiments a multimedia content item may refer to an audio recording captured using a microphone. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may initiate the capturing of a multimedia content item by device to record sound. As another example and not by way of limitation in addition to capturing a series of image frames capturing a video may also include recording sound while the video is being captured. In particular embodiments a multimedia content item may refer to one or more captured images one or more captured videos one or more captured audio recordings or any suitable combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation a multimedia content item may refer to a combination of a video which may include recorded sound as well as one or more high resolution images captured while the video was being recorded.

In particular embodiments an image which may also be referred to as a still image a digital image a photo a digital photo a photograph a digital photograph a picture or a digital picture may refer to a single digital image captured by a digital camera. An image may be captured or stored in any suitable format such as for example Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG format Tagged Image File Format TIFF Graphics Interchange Format GIF Portable Network Graphics PNG format or bitmap BMP file format. Moreover an image may have any suitable resolution such as for example 1280 720 pixels 1920 1080 pixels or 4096 2160 pixels. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular multimedia content items that include particular images having particular formats or resolutions this disclosure contemplates any suitable multimedia content items that include any suitable images having any suitable formats or resolutions.

In particular embodiments a video captured by device may refer to a digital video that includes a series of image frames combined together to form a video recording. A video may be captured encoded or stored in any suitable format such as for example Moving Picture Experts Group 2 Part 2 MPEG 2 Part 2 MPEG 4 Part 2 or H.264 format. Moreover a video have any suitable resolution such as for example 352 288 pixels 720 576 pixels 1280 720 pixels or 2048 1080 pixels. In particular embodiments an image frame may refer to a single still image of a video and a video may include two or more image frames combined together to form a video recording. In particular embodiments a video may be captured at a particular frame rate. In particular embodiments a video may have a frame rate of 24 frames per second FPS 25 FPS 30 FPS or any suitable frame rate where frame rate may refer to a number of still images or video frames per second of a video while being recorded or played back. As an example and not by way of limitation a video captured at 25 FPS Frame Rate 25 FPS may have a time between successive frames of approximately 40 ms 1 Frame Rate 1 25 seconds . As another example and not by way of limitation a 10 second duration video recorded at 30 FPS may include approximately 300 discrete image frames. In particular embodiments a video may include a series of image frames where each image frame has an associated time stamp indicating an absolute time or a relative time within the video when the image was captured. In particular embodiments a video may have a duration of 1 second 10 seconds 15 seconds 30 seconds 1 minute 20 minutes 1 hour or any suitable duration. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular multimedia content items that include particular videos having particular formats resolutions frame rates or durations this disclosure contemplates any suitable multimedia content items that include any suitable videos having any suitable formats resolutions frame rates or durations.

In particular embodiments computing device may receive a user input the user input representing a request to launch an application for capturing multimedia content. In particular embodiments user input may include a touch input a button input a particular motion of computing device a change in light sensed by computing device an audio input received by computing device or any other suitable indicator of a user s request or intent to capture multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation when device is in a sleep mode or locked state the application for capturing multimedia content illustrated in may be automatically launched when a user presses button e.g. a user applies a single press or two successive presses to button . As another example and not by way of limitation an application for capturing multimedia content may be launched when a user applies a double tap touch input or any other suitable touch input to touch screen . As another example and not by way of limitation a multimedia content application may be launched when a user applies a particular motion to device e.g. a vertical flicking motion a sideways flicking motion or a movement that changes device s orientation by approximately 90 degrees . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular applications for capturing multimedia content which are launched in particular manners this disclosure contemplates any suitable applications for capturing multimedia content which are launched in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments upon being launched an application for capturing multimedia content may display a live video preview of a scene visible through a camera of device . As illustrated in the example of a scene representing the view from a camera of computing device may be displayed on screen . In particular embodiments a time indicator e.g. displayed as hours minutes seconds may display an elapsed duration of a video during capture a time location within a captured video or a total duration of a captured video. In screen is showing a live video preview and the time indicator readout of 00 00 00 indicates that video capture has not yet been initiated.

In particular embodiments computing device may receive a user input the user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item. In particular embodiments a user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item may include a touch input. Additionally a subsequent touch input may represent a request to terminate the capture process. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may apply a tap input e.g. a single tap or a double tap to a surface of touch screen to initiate recording of a video. As another example and not by way of limitation a user may request to begin capturing a multimedia content item by applying a swipe a pinch a zoom a particular touch input pattern e.g. a circular touch pattern or a cross touch pattern or any suitable touch input or combination of touch inputs. As illustrated in the example of a user may apply a press input anywhere on touch screen to initiate capture of a multimedia content item where a press input corresponds to a sustained contact with a surface of touch screen by a stylus or the user s finger. For example if a press input is applied for longer than 0.4 seconds then device may begin to record a video and the recording may continue as long as the press input remains applied. The recording may be terminated when the user removes their finger from touch screen . In particular embodiments a UI for capturing multimedia content may include a user interface element e.g. an icon displayed on touch screen or a highlighted or encircled region of touch screen to which a user may apply a touch input to initiate capture of a multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation a one inch diameter circle may be displayed on touch screen and a user may apply a press or a double tap within the circle to initiate capture. Device may only initiate capture if the touch input is located within the circle and a touch input applied outside the circle may not be recognized as a request to initiate capture. In particular embodiments user settings of device may be configured to define which type of user input corresponds to a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may configure the user settings so that a particular touch input or a particular touch input pattern corresponds to a request to begin capturing content. Similarly a user may configure the user settings to associate a particular user input with a request to terminate capturing content. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular user inputs that represent particular requests this disclosure contemplates any suitable user inputs that represent any suitable requests.

In particular embodiments computing device may include a motion sensor and a user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item may include a motion detected by computing device . In particular embodiments information from a motion sensor of device may be used to determine that a user is requesting the capture or the subsequent termination of the capture of a multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation device may include a gyroscope and a motion of device from a substantially horizontal orientation to a substantially upright or vertical orientation as sensed by the gyroscope may indicate a request to begin capturing multimedia content. Additionally a subsequent motion back to a horizontal orientation may indicate a request to terminate the capture. A user may hold device in their hand with device oriented horizontally e.g. camera is pointed approximately downward and when the user moves device to an upright or vertical orientation this motion to a substantially orthogonal orientation with respect to the original horizontal orientation may represent a request to begin recording a video. As another example and not by way of limitation device may include an accelerometer and a flicking motion of at least a first end of device may be sensed by the accelerometer and may indicate a request to begin capturing multimedia content. A user may hold device in their hand and when the user applies a forward or sideways flicking motion to device the flicking motion may represent a request to begin recording a video. Additionally a subsequent flicking motion may indicate a request to terminate the capture. In particular embodiments a motion of device may include any suitable motion or any suitable combination of motions. As an example and not by way of limitation a double flicking motion e.g. two successive forward flicking motions may be used to indicate a request to begin capturing multimedia content. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular motions that represent particular requests this disclosure contemplates any suitable motions that represent any suitable requests.

In particular embodiments computing device may include a light sensor and a user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item may include a change in brightness or an amount of light detected by computing device . As an example and not by way of limitation computing device may include a light sensor for determining a brightness or an amount of ambient light present on or around device . As another example and not by way of limitation computing device may determine an amount of light that is present based on a signal from a camera of device e.g. an amount of light reaching a camera s image sensor may be determined from information or a signal from the camera . In particular embodiments an increase in brightness by a particular threshold amount or to above a particular threshold value may indicate a request to begin capturing multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation when a person removes device from a pocket or purse where the light level is relatively low device may detect an increase in the amount of light received by its camera and this increase in detected light may represent a request to begin recording a video. As another example and not by way of limitation when the amount of light detected by device increases by a particular amount device may launch an application for capturing multimedia content in response to detecting this increase in light. In this case when a user removes device from their pocket device may display a UI similar to that illustrated in . Although this disclosure describes particular light sensors that produce particular signals representing particular requests this disclosure contemplates any suitable light sensors that produce any suitable signals representing any suitable requests.

In particular embodiments computing device may include a microphone and a user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item may include a particular sound or voice command. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may say an audible command e.g. Go or Start recording that is received as an audio signal by a microphone of device and the received audio signal may be interpreted as representing a request to begin capturing multimedia content. Similarly a user may say another audible command e.g. Stop or End recording that is received by a microphone of device and interpreted as representing a request to terminate the capture of multimedia content.

In particular embodiments a combination of two or more user inputs may represent a request to begin capturing multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation a flicking motion of device followed by a touch input may represent a request to begin capturing multimedia content. As another example and not by way of limitation a change in orientation of device e.g. a motion to a substantially orthogonal or upright orientation accompanied by a change in an amount of light detected by device may represent a request to begin capturing multimedia content. In particular embodiments device may require an occurrence of two or more particular user inputs in order to generate a valid request. As an example and not by way of limitation if device detects only one user input e.g. a change in light level but not the other e.g. an orthogonal motion then device may determine that the one detected user input does not represent a valid request. In particular embodiments requiring a combination of two or more user inputs to represent a particular request may reduce the likelihood of inadvertently triggering a request e.g. by an accidental touch input or an unintended motion of device .

In particular embodiments in response to a received user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item device may initiate capture of the multimedia content item. In particular embodiments capturing a multimedia content item may include recording a digital video. In particular embodiments capturing a multimedia content item may include recording an audio signal from a microphone of device . As an example and not by way of limitation capturing a multimedia content item may include recording a video from a camera of device as well as recording a corresponding audio signal from a microphone of device . As another example and not by way of limitation when a user provides a particular user input e.g. user flicks device or moves device from a horizontal orientation to an upright orientation device may automatically begin recording a video.

In particular embodiments capturing a multimedia content item may include recording a digital video as well as capturing one or more high quality still images. As an example and not by way of limitation while recording a video device may also capture high quality still images at regular intervals e.g. every 1 5 or 10 seconds or at any suitable interval of time . As another example and not by way of limitation device may automatically capture one or more high quality still images when beginning to record a video or just after a video recording has been terminated. As another example and not by way of limitation device may record a video and a flash or other illumination source of device may be activated each time a high quality still image is captured which may allow for capturing still images with higher resolution or detail than the recorded video. In particular embodiments a recorded video may have a particular format or resolution e.g. MPEG 4 format with a 720 576 pixel resolution and a recorded image may have another particular format or resolution e.g. JPEG format with a 1920 1080 pixel resolution . As an example and not by way of limitation a captured still image may have a higher resolution e.g. 1920 1080 pixels than a recorded video resolution e.g. 720 576 pixels .

In particular embodiments computing device may receive a user input the user input representing a request to terminate the capture of a multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation device may begin recording a video in response to a first received user input and the recording may be terminated when device receives a second user input. In particular embodiments a user input representing a request to terminate the capturing of a multimedia content item may include a motion detected by computing device . As an example and not by way of limitation device may include a gyroscope and a motion of device from an original orientation e.g. an upright or vertical orientation to another orientation that is approximately orthogonal to the original orientation may represent a request to terminate the recording of a video. Moving device to an orientation that is approximately orthogonal to an original orientation may include a rotation e.g. a pitch motion of device by approximately 90 20 . A user may move device from a substantially downward facing or horizontal orientation to a substantially upright or vertical orientation to initiate recording a video. Device may be held approximately upright while recording the video and when the user returns device to an approximately horizontal orientation device may automatically terminate the video recording. As another example and not by way of limitation device may include an accelerometer and a flicking motion of at least a first end of device may be sensed by the accelerometer and may indicate a request to terminate capturing multimedia content. A user may apply a first flicking motion to device to initiate recording a video and when the user applies a second flicking motion to device the recording may be terminated.

In particular embodiments a user input representing a request to terminate the capturing of a multimedia content item may include a touch input. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may apply a tap input e.g. a single tap or a double tap to a surface of touch screen to initiate recording of a video and when the user applies a subsequent tap input to touch screen the recording may be stopped. As another example and not by way of limitation a user may request to terminate the capturing of a multimedia content item by applying a swipe a pinch a zoom a particular touch input pattern e.g. a circular touch pattern or a cross touch pattern or any suitable touch input or combination of touch inputs. As another example and not by way of limitation a press input applied to touch screen may initiate the recording of a video and the recording may continue as long as the user s finger remains in contact with touch screen . The recording may be terminated when the user removes their finger from touch screen or the recording may be terminated a predetermined amount of time e.g. 0.5 seconds after the user removes their finger from touch screen .

In particular embodiments one or more initial user inputs may represent a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item and one or more subsequent user inputs may represent a request to terminate the capture process. In particular embodiments an initial and a subsequent user input may be the same user inputs. As an example and not by way of limitation a double tap input may be used to initiate a video recording and the same double tap input may be used to terminate the recording. As another example and not by way of limitation a forward flicking motion may initiate a video recording and the same forward flicking motion may terminate the recording. In particular embodiments an initial user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item may be different from a subsequent user input representing a request to terminate the capture. As an example and not by way of limitation a forward flicking motion may represent a request to begin a video recording and a tap input may represent a request to terminate the recording. As another example and not by way of limitation a double tap input may be used to initiate a video recording and a single tap input may be used to terminate the recording. As another example and not by way of limitation an orthogonal change in orientation may initiate a video recording and a tap input may represent a request to terminate the recording.

In particular embodiments a combination of two or more user inputs may represent a request to begin or a request to terminate capturing multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation a change in light level along with an orthogonal change in orientation detected by device may represent a request to begin capturing a video and a single tap input may represent a request to terminate the video capture. As another example and not by way of limitation an orthogonal change in orientation of device along with a press input may initiate recording of a video and the recording may be terminated when the user ends the press input by removing their finger or stylus from touch screen . In particular embodiments two or more user inputs may be required to occur within a particular period of time in order to represent a valid request. As an example and not by way of limitation a forward flicking motion followed by a single tap input within 5 seconds of the forward flicking motion may initiate a video recording and a subsequent single tap input may terminate the recording. If the initial single tap input does not occur within a particular period of time e.g. within 5 seconds of the flicking motion then device may not initiate a video recording. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular user inputs or particular combinations of user inputs configured to initiate or terminate multimedia capture this disclosure contemplates any suitable user inputs or any suitable combinations of user inputs configured to initiate or terminate multimedia capture.

In particular embodiments capturing of a multimedia content item may be automatically terminated after a predetermined amount of time has elapsed from when the capturing was initiated. As an example and not by way of limitation when a video recording is initiated device may capture a particular duration of video such as for example 10 seconds 30 seconds 1 minute 10 minutes or any suitable duration. As another example and not by way of limitation after receiving a user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item device may capture the multimedia content for a particular amount of time e.g. 30 seconds and then automatically terminate the capture without receiving input from a user. In particular embodiments capturing of a multimedia content item may be terminated either by a particular user input or after a predetermined amount of time has elapsed from the beginning of capture. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may apply a single tap input to terminate a recording. If a recording continues for a particular amount of time e.g. 5 minutes then device may automatically terminate the recording without receiving a single tap input.

In particular embodiments in response to receiving a user input representing a request to begin capturing a multimedia content item device may change from one operating mode to another. As an example and not by way of limitation if device is in a sleep mode or a locked state a user input to begin capturing multimedia content e.g. a forward flick may result in device automatically beginning to record a video. As another example and not by way of limitation regardless of the mode device is in e.g. sleep mode locked state or running an application a user input to begin capturing multimedia content may result in device automatically beginning to record a video. As another example and not by way of limitation regardless of the mode device is in a user input to begin capturing multimedia content may result in device displaying a UI for capturing multimedia content e.g. the UI illustrated in . A user may apply a forward flick to device and from a sleep mode device may initiate or display an application for capturing multimedia content. When the user applies another user input e.g. a tap or press input device may then begin recording a video. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular user inputs that result in particular operating modes this disclosure contemplates any suitable user inputs that result in any suitable operating modes.

In particular embodiments device may receive a selection of one or more media types. As illustrated in a user may select a photo media type indicating the user wishes to select one or more image frames from the captured video. In particular embodiments device may receive one two three or any suitable number of selections of media types. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may select a photo media type as well as a GIF media type indicating that the user wishes to extract an image frame from the captured video as well as a portion e.g. a 5 second excerpt of the video.

In particular embodiments device may encode one or more portions of captured multimedia content in accordance with a media type selection to produce a corresponding encoded media object. In particular embodiments an encoded media object may refer to a video an image a GIF image or animation an audio file or any other suitable media having any suitable format type or resolution where the encoded media object is derived from a captured multimedia content item. In particular embodiments encoding a portion of multimedia content may refer to converting copying or translating a portion of a captured multimedia content item into a selected media type where the selected media type may be different from or the same as the media type of the multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to receiving a media type selection and a selection of an image or a section of a captured multimedia content item device may extract the selected image or section from the captured multimedia. Device may extract the selected image or section by copying it from the captured multimedia content item and then the extracted copy may be converted into the selected media type. In particular embodiments a captured multimedia content item may not be affected or changed by such an encoding process rather an image or section of a multimedia content item may be copied into another file or memory location and then encoded into a desired media type.

In particular embodiments in response to receiving a selection of a media type and a selection of a portion of captured multimedia content device may convert the selected portion into a media object having the selected media type. In particular embodiments device may capture multimedia content in a video format and a user may select a photo media type and a particular frame from a captured video. In response to the user selection device may extract or copy a selected frame and convert it into an image e.g. an image in JPEG format to produce the requested encoded media object. In particular embodiments a user may select a video media type and a particular section of a captured video and device may copy the selected section from the captured video and convert it into a separate video or into a GIF animation. A converted video may have the same media type as the captured video or the converted video may have a different media type or a different resolution. As an example and not by way of limitation a captured video may have a MPEG 4 Part 2 format and a 1280 720 pixel resolution and an extracted video may have a H.264 format and a 352 288 pixel resolution.

In particular embodiments post capture image processing may be applied to an extracted portion of captured multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation an image frame extracted from a video may have post capture image processing automatically applied to enhance image quality e.g. by optimizing hue brightness or contrast adjusting sharpness or cropping the image . As another example and not by way of limitation an extracted excerpt of a captured video may have image processing applied to enhance image quality or to apply image stabilization e.g. to reduce the effects of camera shake . In particular embodiments a user may modify a selected portion of captured multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may crop an image or video or adjust the settings e.g. hue brightness or contrast of an image or video. In particular embodiments after selecting a portion e.g. an image video excerpt or GIF animation of a captured video to be extracted a user may add one or more tags notes or other textual elements to the extracted portion. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may select a frame from a captured video to extract as an image and the user may add tags identifying people in the image. In particular embodiments a user may add one or more graphical elements or edits e.g. stickers doodles or image distortions to an extracted portion of captured content.

In particular embodiments a process for capturing multimedia content and then presenting options for selection of media type after capture is complete may be referred to as post capture selection of media type. With a post capture selection process a user may perform a media type selection after the multimedia content has already been captured and a user need not select a media type prior to capturing the content. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to a request to capture multimedia content device may by default record a video. Then device may allow a user to select a media type after the capture is complete. In particular embodiments a post capture selection of media type may allow a user to easily or quickly record an event without first having to select a media type. A user can initiate recording by providing a user input e.g. a tap or a forward flicking motion and the user does not need to specify whether they want to capture a video an image a GIF or any other suitable media type until after the recording is completed. Rather than delaying the start of a recording by having to decide which media type to capture a user can begin recording immediately after making a request to record. A post capture selection process may allow a user to capture fun interesting exciting or short lived moments such as for example a game winning basket in a basketball game a moment when a friend is doing something funny or a moment when a pet is doing something cute. In particular embodiments after a moment is captured as a video recording a user may review the recording and then select whether to extract a frame as an image a portion of the recording as a video or GIF animation or both.

In particular embodiments device may capture a multimedia content item and then perform an encoding process to produce an encoded media object having a media type selected by a user. In particular embodiments after an encoded media object is produced from an extracted portion of captured media a user may store the media object on device may send the media object to another user or may upload the media object to an Internet based service such as for example social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation an encoded media object e.g. an extracted image or portion of a video may be uploaded to social networking system where it may be shared with friends via the online social network.

In particular embodiments a multimedia content item may be uploaded to an Internet based service e.g. social networking system after capture of the item is complete. As an example and not by way of limitation device may receive a request to capture a multimedia content item and after the capturing is complete device may upload the captured multimedia content item to social networking system . A user who recorded the content may interact with social networking system to select one or more media types and social networking system may perform an encoding process to produce a corresponding encoded media object. As another example and not by way of limitation a captured multimedia content item may be uploaded to social networking system and a viewer e.g. a friend of the person who captured the content may select a media type e.g. a frame a GIF animation a portion of a video or the entire recorded content they wish to view. Social networking system may perform an encoding process in response to the viewer s media type selection and present the encoded media object to the viewer.

In particular embodiments a facial recognition process may be applied to a captured multimedia content item or to an encoded media object. As an example and not by way of limitation device or social networking system may perform facial recognition to identify one or more people who appear in a captured multimedia content item or in an encoded media object. A user may select an image from a captured multimedia content item and facial recognition may be performed on the image to identify one or more people in the image. In particular embodiments device may display a suggestion to share an encoded media object with one or more people who are identified in the media object. As an example and not by way of limitation in a post capture selection screen a user may be presented with a suggestion to share an image e.g. an image extracted from a captured video with one or more identified people who appear in the image.

In particular embodiments a suggestion to share multimedia content or an encoded media object may be based at least in part on social networking information. A user may be prompted to share a photo or video with one or more people connected to the user. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may provide a suggestion to share a photo based on social graph connections between a user who captured the multimedia content and people in the photo identified by facial recognition. A user node in a social graph of social networking system may represent a user who captured a multimedia content item and one or more other user nodes may represent one or more respective people identified in the captured multimedia content or in a corresponding encoded media object. If the user node of the user who captured the content is within a threshold degree of separation from a user node of an identified person then a suggestion to share a media object with the identified person may be presented. If the user node of the user who captured the content is associated with an affinity coefficient for a user node of an identified person where the affinity coefficient is above a particular threshold value then a suggestion to share with the identified person may be presented.

In particular embodiments a suggestion to create an association between an encoded media object and an identified person may be displayed to a user. In particular embodiments an association may include an edge or a tag. As an example and not by way of limitation a user who captured a multimedia content item may be presented with a suggestion to create an edge between a concept node representing the encoded media object and a user node representing a person identified in the encoded media object. As another example and not by way of limitation creating an association between an encoded media object and an identified person may include tagging the encoded media object to indicate the identified person. Although this disclosure describes particular suggestions based on particular social networking information this disclosure contemplates any suitable suggestions based on any suitable social networking information.

In particular embodiments an image analysis process may be applied to a captured multimedia content item or to an encoded media object. As an example and not by way of limitation device or social networking system may perform image analysis to identify one or more entities appearing in a captured multimedia content item or in an encoded media object. As an example and not by way of limitation identified entities may include a place e.g. a restaurant movie theater beach park museum landmark or city a business a sports team an animal e.g. a person s pet an activity e g hiking bicycling swimming or eating a product e.g. a computer car or bicycle or any other suitable entity or combination of suitable entities. If a multimedia content item is captured showing a group of friends on a bicycle ride across the Golden Gate Bridge then an image analysis process may identify one or more of the following entities the Golden Gate Bridge San Francisco bicycles and bicycling.

In particular embodiments a suggestion to create an association e.g. an edge or a tag between an encoded media object and an identified entity may be displayed to a user. As an example and not by way of limitation a user who captured a multimedia content item may be presented with a suggestion to create an edge between a concept node representing an encoded media object and a concept node representing an identified entity in the encoded media object. For example a user may be presented with suggestions to create edges between concept node representing an image of friends on a bicycle ride and concept nodes representing the Golden Gate Bridge San Francisco bicycles and bicycling. As another example and not by way of limitation an association between an encoded media object and an identified entity may include a tag visually displayed to indicate the identified entity in the encoded media object.

In particular embodiments a location of computing device during the capturing of a multimedia content item may be detected. As an example and not by way of limitation a location of computing device may be determined based on a GPS signal a cellular telephone signal a Wi Fi signal or any other suitable signal received by device . In particular embodiments a suggestion to tag an encoded media object with a detected location may be displayed to a user. As an example and not by way of limitation after a user captures a multimedia content item device may present a suggestion to tag an encoded media object derived from the captured multimedia content item with a detected location of device . For example if a user extracts an image of the Eiffel Tower from a captured video then the user may be prompted with a suggestion to add an Eiffel Tower or Paris location tag to the extracted image.

In particular embodiments device may make a prediction of a selected media type and during capture of a multimedia content item device may adjust one or more capturing parameters based on the predicted media type. As an example and not by way of limitation device may predict that during post capture selection a user is likely to select an image media type and based on that prediction device may adjust one or more capturing parameters in real time while capturing a multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation capturing parameters may include a type format or resolution of the multimedia content item.

In particular embodiments predicting a selected media type may be based at least in part on historical information associated with one or more previously captured multimedia content items. As an example and not by way of limitation historical information may include what actions a user has taken in the past with previously captured media or how a user has shared previously captured multimedia content. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user has previously shared photos then device may periodically capture high resolution images while recording a video.

In particular embodiments predicting a selected media type may be based at least in part on one or more user preferences. As an example and not by way of limitation user preferences may include or may be based on one or more of the following media types associated with a user s profile media types uploaded or downloaded by a user media types shared by a user or among friends of a user or media types which have a high rate of social interaction by a user e.g. media types the user typically views likes or comments on . As an example and not by way of limitation if a user has previously interacted with GIF animations then device may adjust capturing parameters during recording to be optimized for exporting a GIF animation.

In particular embodiments predicting a selected media type may be based at least in part on one or more properties of a captured multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation device may predict a selected media type based on what is being captured during recording and device may adjust one or more capturing parameters accordingly. As an example and not by way of limitation if there is a significant amount of motion of device while recording or a significant amount of change in composition of captured frames e.g. changes in color or light levels then device may predict that the user may select a video media type and may adjust capturing parameters accordingly.

In particular embodiments predicting a selected media type may be based at least in part on status information associated with device . As an example and not by way of limitation status information may include battery level of device network connectivity of device e.g. device is connected to a cell tower or to a Wi Fi access point available storage or memory of device or a type of data plan of device . As an example and not by way of limitation if the amount of available storage of device is getting low then device may reduce the resolution of a multimedia content item during recording so that it consumes less memory. As another example and not by way of limitation if device is connected to a cell tower then device may reduce the resolution of a multimedia content item during recording so that a resulting encoded media object may be efficiently uploaded to social networking system via a cellular signal. As another example and not by way of limitation if device has a data plan with a limited amount of data device may reduce the resolution of a multimedia content item during recording to reduce the size of a resulting encoded media object. Although this disclosure describes particular predications based on particular information this disclosure contemplates any suitable predications based on any suitable information.

In particular embodiments after capturing of a multimedia content item is terminated device may present one or more portions of the captured multimedia content item as suggested portions to be encoded. As an example and not by way of limitation in a post capture selection screen a user may be presented with one or more suggested images or portions of a recorded video. In particular embodiments one or more suggested portions may be determined based at least in part on the recorded content. As an example and not by way of limitation suggested portions of a recorded video may be determined based on whether there is a significant amount of motion activity or change in color or brightness. As another example and not by way of limitation a portion of a recorded video may be suggested if a person animal or other moving object enters a frame of the video. In particular embodiments one or more suggested portions may be determined based at least in part on social networking information. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more frames of a captured video may be suggested to a user for extraction as an image or a video clip if the frame s includes one or more people who are socially connected to the user.

In particular embodiments a portion of captured multimedia content may not be presented to a user as a suggested portion to be encoded. In particular embodiments device may refrain from presenting a suggestion to extract a particular portion of captured multimedia content based at least in part on social networking information. As an example and not by way of limitation a particular frame from a captured video may not be suggested to a user if the frame includes one or more of the following a person who is not a friend of the user a person who has been unfriended or blocked by the user a person who has a low affinity coefficient with respect to the user e.g. an affinity coefficient below a threshold value or a person who has a negative or contentious relationship with the user e.g. the user and the identified person are associated with negative comments or posts with respect to one another . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may not be presented with a suggestion to extract a frame that includes an ex spouse or ex partner. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be presented with a suggestion to extract a frame where an unwanted person has exited the frame or has moved to a location where they may be cropped from the frame. In particular embodiments device may refrain from presenting a suggestion to extract a particular portion of captured multimedia content based at least in part on one or more entities identified in the particular portion. As an example and not by way of limitation a particular frame from a captured video may not be suggested to a user if the frame includes content that might be considered objectionable offensive or undesirable e.g. nudity profanity or an offensive gesture . In particular embodiments device may present a suggestion to blur crop mute or remove some part of a multimedia content item. As an example and not by way of limitation before or after encoding a frame of a captured video device may present a suggestion to a user to blur crop or remove part of the frame. For example a person who has a negative relationship with the user may be cropped out of a frame or an offensive gesture may be blurred so it cannot be seen. As another example and not by way of limitation a user may be presented with a suggestion to mute an audio portion of a video e.g. to remove profanity or excessive noise . In particular embodiments part of captured multimedia content may be automatically removed. As an example and not by way of limitation if an extracted portion of a multimedia content item contains objectionable material e.g. a person with a negative relationship to the viewing user the objectionable material may be automatically cropped blurred or muted to remove the objectionable material.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements feature functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements features functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative. Additionally although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular embodiments as providing particular advantages particular embodiments may provide none some or all of these advantages.

