---

title: Media clip systems and methods
abstract: Exemplary media clip systems and methods provide end users of a media distribution service, such as a mobile television distribution service, with one or more media clip tools for creation, editing, sharing, accessing, and/or consumption of clips of media programs distributed by way of the media distribution service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578381&OS=09578381&RS=09578381
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09578381
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151007
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 813 352 filed on Jul. 30 2015 and entitled MEDIA CLIP SYSTEMS AND METHODS which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Certain media distribution services allow end users of the services to use personal mobile devices to discover access and consume a wide variety of media programs. The wide variety of media programs made available by way of such services may make it difficult or inconvenient for end users of the services to discover media content that is of interest to the users. In addition consumption of media programs with a personal mobile device is often a solitary experience not conducive to the social interaction that has been traditionally available to users who consume media programs with a communal media player device such as a television. Thus there is a need for improved tools for media discovery and or end user interaction in a media distribution service that would provide end users of the media distribution service with better user experiences particularly for end users who use personal mobile devices to consume media programs and enjoy expressing themselves.

Exemplary media clip systems and methods are described herein. Exemplary systems and methods described herein may provide end users of a media distribution service with one or more media clip tools for intuitive and or convenient creation editing sharing accessing and or consumption of clips of media programs distributed by way of the media distribution service. The media clip tools may facilitate interaction between end users of the media distribution service which may help the end users to express themselves to one another enjoy social interaction related to media content and or otherwise interact with one another within the context of the media distribution service. Additionally or alternatively the media clip tools may facilitate intuitive and or convenient sharing of clips of media programs between end users of the media distribution service which may provide a way for end users to conveniently discover media content that is available through the media distribution service and that is of interest to the end users. These and or other benefits that may be provided by the exemplary systems and methods are described herein.

As used herein the term media content may refer generally to any content that may be accessed and or presented e.g. played back by a media player device for experiencing by a user of the media player device. The term media content program as used herein may refer generally to any instance of media content such as a television program on demand media program pay per view media program broadcast media program e.g. broadcast television program multicast media program narrowcast media program IPTV program video program audio program streamed media program e.g. streamed video audio and or audio video program recorded live transmission of a media program e.g. a recorded broadcast multicast or narrowcast transmission of the media program advertisement and any other distinct instance of media content that may be accessed and or presented by a media content player device. As used herein a clip or moment of a media program may include any continuous segment portion of the media program.

Examples of media clip systems and methods as well as exemplary media clip tools provided by the systems and methods will now be described in reference to the accompanying drawings.

Storage facility may be configured to store data generated and or used by clip management facility . For example storage facility may store media clip data representative of one or more clips of one or more media programs and settings data representative of one or more settings for use by clip management facility in performing media clip operations. Storage facility may store additional or alternative data as may serve a particular implementation.

The data stored by storage facility may be accessed by system from any suitable source including a source internal or external to system . Thus while storage facility is shown to be within system in in alternative embodiments storage facility may be external of system .

Storage facility may permanently or temporarily store data. In certain examples system may access certain data from a source external to system and temporarily store the data in storage facility for use by clip management facility . In certain examples data generated by clip management facility may be stored permanently or temporarily to storage facility .

Clip management facility may perform any of the media clip operations described herein. For example clip management facility may provide one or more media clip tools for use by end users of a media distribution service to create edit manage share access and or consume clips of media programs distributed by way of the media distribution service. Clip management facility may detect user input received through user interaction with the media clip tools and perform one or more media clip operations in response to the user input. Examples of media clip tools that may be provided by clip management facility as well as operations that may be performed by clip management facility in relation to the tools such as in response to user interaction with the tools will now be described.

In certain examples clip management facility may provide one or more media clip tools by providing a user interface and or features of a user interface for use by end users of the media distribution service to create edit manage share access and or consume clips of media programs distributed by way of the media distribution service. Exemplary graphical user interfaces GUIs and media clip features of the GUIs will now be described.

Media player device may include any computing device configured to access and present e.g. play back media content for experiencing by a user of the media player device . For example media player device may include a personal mobile device such as a smartphone device a tablet computer etc. Alternatively media player device may include other devices capable of accessing and presenting media content such as a personal computer a set top box device a television a media service access device a media streaming access device and or any other suitable device.

Media player device may include an integrated display screen e.g. display screen such as a touchscreen on which video content may be presented. In other examples media player device may provide video content for presentation on a separate communicatively coupled display device e.g. a television or computer monitor . Additionally or alternatively media player device may include or be communicatively coupled to audio speakers and provide audio content to the speakers for presentation to the user.

Clip management facility may provide one or more media clip creation tools for use by a user of a media player device to define a clip of a media program. To illustrate video content of a media program may be played back in GUI view as shown in . GUI view may also include user selectable options such as a menu button selectable by the user to access a menu view a playback time bar representative of a playback time duration of the media program being played back and a playback time indicator indicating a current playback time of the playback of the media program.

Clip management facility may provide a clip creation button in GUI view . The user may select clip creation button to request that a clip of the media program be created. Clip management facility may detect the user request to create a clip of the media program in any suitable way and in response may create a clip of the media program.

Clip management facility may create a clip of the media program in any suitable way. In certain examples clip management facility may create a clip of the media program automatically in response to a single user input such as a single user selection of clip creation button during playback of the media program. Accordingly during playback of the media program the user may define a clip of the media program conveniently and efficiently by selecting the clip creation button at a desired playback time.

To illustrate in response to a user selection of clip creation button during playback of the media program clip management facility may automatically create a clip of the media program by determining a playback time of the media program at which the user request is detected selecting a start time for the clip based on the playback time of the media program at which the user request is detected and on a predefined automatic start time selection setting selecting an end time for the clip based on the playback time of the media program at which the user request is detected and on a predefined automatic end time selection setting and generating data representative of the clip. Examples of how clip management facility may perform these operations will now be described.

Clip management facility may determine a playback time of the media program at which the user request is detected in any suitable way. For example clip management facility may interface with a media player application executing on media player device to query a current playback time position of the playback of the media program. As another example clip management facility may detect and use a timestamp at which the user request is received to determine a playback position that corresponds to the timestamp. As another example clip management facility may query metadata information for the media program such as index information for the media program to determine the playback time of the media program at which the user request is detected. The metadata information queried by clip management facility may be algorithmically generated based on one or more video segmentation algorithms for scene or shot transitions which may be indexed so as to be scalable. This may be performed without manual input of the metadata and or index information.

Clip management facility may use the determined playback time together with a predefined automatic start time selection setting and a predefined automatic end time selection setting to automatically select a start time and an end time for the clip. To illustrate in certain examples the predefined start time selection setting may specify a first predefined length of time by which to advance from the determined playback time backward in time along the playback timeline of the media program and the predefined automatic start time selection setting may specify a second predefined length of playback time by which to advance from the determined playback time forward in time along the playback timeline of the media program. In such examples clip management facility may select a start time for the clip by advancing from the playback time backward along the playback timeline by the first predefined length of playback time and designating the identified time as the start time for the clip. Clip management facility may also select an end time for the clip by advancing from the playback time forward along the playback timeline by the second predefined length of playback time and designating the identified time as the end time for the clip.

The first and second predefined lengths of time may be defined to be any lengths of time suitable for generating media clips. In certain examples the first and second lengths of time may be defined to be equal lengths of time e.g. five seconds each . In other examples the first and second lengths of time may be defined to be different lengths of time. For example the first length of time e.g. twenty seconds may be of longer duration than the second length of time e.g. ten seconds to favor automatic generation of media clips that contain more playback content that is earlier in time from when the user selects the clip creation button compared to the playback content that is later in time from when the user selects the clip creation button . Conversely the second length of time e.g. twenty seconds may be of longer duration than the first length of time e.g. ten seconds to favor automatic generation of media clips that contain more playback content that is later in time from when the user selects the clip creation button compared to the playback content that is earlier in time from when the user selects the clip creation button .

In certain examples the first and second predefined lengths of time may be defined to promote creation of media clips having consistent total lengths of time. For example the first and second predefined lengths of time may be defined to have a sum total length of thirty seconds.

Additionally or alternatively to the predefined automatic start and end time selection settings specifying predefined lengths of times the predefined automatic start and end time selection settings may comprise one or more scene boundary selection settings usable by clip management facility to identify scene boundaries in a media program and to designate identified scene boundaries as start and end times of a media clip. As used herein a scene boundary may include a playback time that corresponds to a start of a particular scene of a media program an end of a particular scene of a media program or a transition from one scene to another in a media program. In certain examples the predefined automatic start time selection setting may comprise a start scene boundary selection setting usable to identify a start scene boundary in the media program that is earlier in time than the playback time of the media program at which the user request to create a clip of the media program is detected and the predefined automatic end time selection setting may comprise an end scene boundary selection setting usable to identify an end scene boundary in the media program that is later in time than the playback time of the media program at which the user request to create a clip of the media program is detected.

In certain such examples clip management facility may select a start time for the clip by advancing from the playback time backward along the playback timeline to identify based on the start scene boundary selection setting a scene boundary in the media program that is earlier in time than the determined playback time and designating the identified scene boundary as the start time for the clip. Clip management facility may also select an end time for the clip by advancing from the playback time forward along the playback timeline to identify based on the end scene boundary selection setting a scene boundary in the media program that is later in time than the determined playback time and designating the identified scene boundary as the end time for the clip.

Clip management facility may use the start and end scene boundary selection settings to identify scene boundaries in any suitable way. In certain examples clip management facility may analyze the media program e.g. by analyzing a stream of data that represents the media program metadata for the media program etc. based on scene boundary selection settings to identify a point in the media program that has one or more attributes indicative of a scene boundary. To illustrate a media program or a media stream carrying the media program may include one or more attributes that are indicative of a change of scenes at a particular point in the media program. Such attributes may be indicative of common properties of scene changes such as fade ins fade outs audio gaps video gaps audio volume changes etc. Clip management facility may use scene boundary settings to search for and identify attributes indicative of such properties and from these identified properties identify scene boundaries in the media program. Examples of attributes that may be indicative of scene changes and or properties of scene changes may include without limitation changes in brightness contrast and or saturation values between video frames types of video frames e.g. I frames changes in audio levels and or properties between frames and types of audio frames that are indicative of properties of scene changes.

In certain examples the predefined scene boundary settings may direct clip management facility to identify a boundary scene that immediately precedes the determined playback time and to designate that boundary scene as the start time for the media clip. Similarly the predefined scene boundary settings may direct clip management facility to identify a boundary scene that immediately follows the determined playback time and to designate that boundary scene as the end time for the media clip.

From the determined playback time clip management facility may advance backward in time along the playback timeline of the media program in search of a scene boundary immediately preceding the determined playback time as represented by arrow . Clip management facility may identify scene boundary and designate a playback time corresponding to the scene boundary e.g. the playback time at which a scene of the media program bounded by scene boundary and scene boundary starts as the start time of the media clip which start time is represented by dashed line .

Similarly from the determined playback time clip management facility may advance forward in time along the playback timeline of the media program in search of a scene boundary immediately following the determined playback time as represented by arrow . Clip management facility may identify scene boundary and designate a playback time corresponding to the scene boundary e.g. the playback time at which a scene of the media program bounded by scene boundary and scene boundary ends as the end time of the media clip which end time is represented by dashed line .

In certain examples metadata for a media program may include data indicating scene boundaries within the media program. For example a provider of the media distribution service may process a media program to identify scene boundaries in the media program. The provider may insert markers e.g. index information for the scenes into metadata for the media program. In such examples clip management facility may use the metadata scene boundary markers to identify scene boundaries based on the predefined start and end scene boundary selection settings. The pre processing and marking of a media program with scene boundary markers may promote more efficient operation of clip management facility in identifying and designating scene boundaries as start and end times of a media clip in response to a user request to create a media clip.

In certain examples the predefined automatic start and end time selection settings may specify time limits such as a maximum total length of time for a media clip or for advancing backward or forward along the timeline of the media program to select a start time and or an end time for the media clip. In such examples if clip management facility does not identify a scene boundary before reaching a maximum length of playback time threshold clip management facility may identify and designate a start time and or end time of a media clip e.g. at playback times that correspond to the maximum thresholds without identifying and using a start scene boundary and or an end scene boundary for the start time and or the end time.

From the determined playback time clip management facility may advance backward in time along the playback timeline of the media program in search of a scene boundary immediately preceding the determined playback time as represented by arrow . Clip management facility may identify scene boundary and designate a playback time corresponding to the scene boundary e.g. the playback time at which a scene of the media program bounded by scene boundary and scene boundary starts as the start time of the media clip which start time is represented by dashed line .

Similarly from the determined playback time clip management facility may advance forward in time along the playback timeline of the media program in search of a scene boundary immediately following the determined playback time as represented by arrow . Before reaching scene boundary clip management facility may determine that a predefined maximum time threshold for the clip has been reached and may identify and designate an end time for the media clip based on the predefined maximum time threshold which end time is represented by dashed line .

In certain examples the predefined automatic start and end time selection settings may be defined by a provider of the media distribution service. For instance predefined lengths of time by which to advance from a determined playback time may be hard coded or otherwise fixed in settings data and or clip management facility . In other examples the predefined automatic start and end time selection settings may be custom defined by an end user of the media distribution service. To this end clip management facility may provide one or more media clip tools for use by the end user to define one or more of the predefined automatic start and end time selection settings. For example clip management facility may provide one or more tools for use by the end user to custom define lengths of time to be used by clip management facility to identify clip start and end times e.g. lengths of time to advance forward and or backward along a media program timeline maximum clip length thresholds etc. and or scene boundary selection settings to be used by clip management facility to identify clip start and end times. In certain examples the predefined automatic start and end time selection settings may include a combination of provider defined and end user defined settings.

After selecting start and end times for the media clip clip management facility may generate data representative of the media clip that is usable by a media player device to access and play back the clip of the media program. The data representative of the media clip may be in any format suitable for use by the media player device and clip management facility may generate the data in any suitable way.

In certain examples clip management facility may generate the data representative of a media clip of a media program to specify an identifier for the media program and offsets for the start and end times of the media clip. The offsets may be defined relative to a start an end or other suitable reference point of the media program. Such data may allow a media player device to use the identifier to identify a media program asset maintained by a provider of the media distribution service e.g. a live television media program or an on demand media program asset maintained in a content data network and to use the offsets to identify particular playback times of the media program at which to start and stop a playback of the clip. The offsets may be used by the media player device to index directly to the start and end times within the media program asset to start and stop streaming at the start and end times . The use of this data representative of a media clip may help conserve computing resources by allowing a media program asset already maintained by the provider of the media distribution service to be used for access to clips of the media program without additional permanent copies of the clips of the media program having to be stored in memory.

In certain examples after generating data representative of a media clip clip management facility may automatically save the data representative of the media clip to a user profile of an end user who requested the clip be created. The user profile may be associated with an account of the end user with the media distribution service. In certain examples the user profile may be maintained by a provider of the media distribution service and may include information about the end user service access credentials for the end user e.g. subscription credentials device information for one or more computing devices e.g. media player devices used by the user to access the media distribution service service settings for the end user historical information about interaction of the end user with the media distribution service and or any other information associated with the end user and the media distribution service.

By automatically saving data representative of the media clip to the user profile clip management facility may maintain historical data for all media clips created by the end user. This data may be accessible by the user and or shareable by the user as described further below. illustrates an exemplary user profile for an end user of the media distribution service. As shown user profile may include a table of data representative of media clips defined by the end user. In the illustrated example table includes a media program identifier media program ID a start time index offset and an end time index offset for each media clip saved to user profile .

After clip management facility creates a media clip clip management facility may provide a notification to the user who requested creation of the media clip. For example in response to the media clip being created as described above clip management facility may provide a notification for display in a GUI view to indicate to the user of media player device that the media clip has been created.

After clip management facility creates a media clip clip management facility may provide a user selectable option to share the media clip. For example in response to the media clip being created as described above clip management facility may provide a user selectable option for display in a GUI view to indicate to the user of media player device that the user may select the option to share the media clip.

For example clip management facility may provide a user selectable option to share the media clip in GUI view as shown in . As illustrated clip management facility may provide both notification and option concurrently in GUI view such as in a header area of GUI view .

If the user does not select option within a predefined length of time clip management facility may remove notification and option from GUI view thereby allowing the user to continue consuming the media program uninterrupted. As described herein clip management facility may provide one or more media clip sharing tools for use by the user to share the created media at a later time e.g. after the user finishes consuming the media program .

If the user provides input to select option e.g. a single user input to select option clip management facility may detect the selection of option and respond by performing one or more media clip operations to facilitate editing and or sharing of the media clip. In certain examples clip management facility may perform one or more operations to share the media clip with one or more other people in accordance with a predefined automatic media clip sharing setting. For instance clip management facility may automatically send in response to the user selection of share option data representative of the media clip to devices associated with one or more other people by way of one or more preselected media communication platforms. In this manner the user may conveniently share the clip with a single user input e.g. after creating the clip with another single user input .

In other examples clip management facility may provide one or more media clip tools for use by the user to edit and or share the media clip. Examples of such tools will now be described.

As shown GUI view may include a header area that includes an option for returning to a playback view of the media program e.g. to return to GUI view an option for launching media clip editing features which is the currently selected option in and an option for sharing the media clip. A user may utilize one or more media clip sharing features shown in to edit the created media clip prior to selecting option to share the media clip.

GUI view may also include a frame image array which may be a horizontal linear array of still frame images of the media program. Still images of select frames of the media program may be displayed linearly in chronological order in the array .

The frame image array may be displayed in conjunction with a portion of the playback time bar of the media program. For example the array and the time bar may be parallel rows stretching horizontally across GUI view as shown in .

GUI view may include handles e.g. handles and for use by the user to edit the media clip. Each of the handles may be movable by a user along the time bar and or the frame image array . A user may provide input to select and drag handle horizontally along the time bar and or the frame image array to adjust the start time of the media clip and or to select and drag handle horizontally along the time bar and or the frame image array to adjust the end time of the media clip. Any suitable user input may be used to select and drag the handles such as touch screen user input on a touchscreen.

Handles may be graphically overlaid on time bar and or frame image array . In for example each of the handles includes a circular graphical object overlaid on time bar and a vertical line extending away from the circular graphical object such that the vertical line is overlaid on frame image array . The portion of the time bar and the frame images of the array that are positioned between the handles may visually represent the media clip. This may help the user readily ascertain how the start time and or end time of the media clip relate to the playback timeline and or the frames of the media program.

In certain examples clip management facility may graphically rubber band handles one to another. That is clip management facility may graphically limit a playback time length between the start time handle and the end time handle to prevent the playback time length between the start time handle and the end time handle from exceeding a maximum media clip playback time threshold e.g. thirty seconds . If the user provides input to move one of the handles too far from the other of the handles clip management facility may perform one or more remedial actions. For example clip management facility may animate a rubber band effect that causes one of the handles to move back toward the other of the handles such that the playback time length between the handles does not exceed the threshold. This rubber banding effect may be applied by clip management facility to either of the handles e.g. to the handle that was moved by the user or to the other handle .

GUI view may also include a playback area which may be disposed between header area and the time bar and frame image array as shown in . The playback area may include a clip image representative of the media clip which clip image may be a still frame image selected by clip management facility from the frame images includes in the media clip.

The playback area may include a playback option overlaid on the clip image. The playback option may be selected by the user to initiate a playback of the media clip in the playback area such that the user may preview the media clip before sharing the media clip. illustrates a GUI view in which the media clip is being played back in the playback area in response to a user selection of playback option . As shown GUI view may include a playback time indicator that visually indicates a current playback time position of the media clip relative to the time bar and or the frame image array .

A user may provide a user request to share a media clip in any suitable way. For example a user may provide such a request by selecting option in GUI view or option in GUI view or GUI view . Clip management facility may detect a user request to share a media clip in any suitable way and in response may perform one or more media clip sharing operations. As described above in certain examples clip management facility may automatically share a media clip in response to the user request to share the media clip based on a predefined media clip sharing setting. In other examples clip management facility may provide in response to the user request to share a media clip one or more media clip sharing tools for use by the user to share the media clip. Examples of such media clip sharing tools will now be described.

As shown GUI view may include a menu of sharing options e.g. sharing options through each selectable by a user to choose a way to share a media clip. In certain examples sharing options may represent a set of communication platforms by way of which data representative of a media clip may be sent by the user to one or more other people. Examples of such communication platforms that may be represented by sharing options may include one or more data communication platforms e.g. data messaging platforms such as an e mail platform and or a text or media messaging platform like a short messaging service SMS platform and or a media messaging service MMS platform and or social networking platforms e.g. TWITTER FACEBOOK PINTEREST etc. by way of which a media clip may be shared.

The media communication platforms represented by sharing options may be preselected for representation in GUI view by a provider of the media distribution service the end user of the service or by a manufacturer of media player device . In certain examples features of an operating system running on media player device may be used to provide access to the media communication platforms and to select sharing options to be included in GUI view .

A user may provide input to select one of the sharing options . Clip management facility may detect the user selection and respond by automatically sharing the media clip by way of the media communication platform represented by the selected sharing option . In other examples before sharing the media clip by way of the media communication platform represented by the selected sharing option the user may be provided with one or more tools e.g. a virtual keyboard and text entry field for creating modifying and or including a textual message with the media clip. For example in response to a user selection of one of the sharing options clip management facility may provider a GUI view shown in for display. As shown in GUI view may include a prepopulated textual message related to the sharing of the clip. GUI view may also include one or more tools for use by the user to provide a custom message e.g. by editing the pre populated message to be shared together with the media clip. After choosing a textual message to accompany the media clip the user may select a share option to share the media clip and accompanying message with one or more other people by way of the selected media communication platform. In response to the selection of share option data representative of the media clip and the accompanying message is sent to the one or more other people by way of the selected media communication platform.

After the media clip has been shared clip management facility may provide a notification to the user who requested that the media clip be shared. For example in response to the media clip being shared as described above clip management facility may provide a notification for display in a GUI view to indicate to the user of media player device that the media clip has been shared.

A recipient of a shared media clip may access and consume the media clip in any suitable way. For example a media player device operated by the recipient may use data representative of the shared media clip to request and stream the media clip from the provider of the media distribution service. The media player device may utilize a web browser a media player application a media service application or any other media access technologies to access and play back the shared media clip.

The sharing of media clips as described herein may help one or more users or potential users of the media distribution service to discover access and consume media programs that are distributed by way of the media distribution service and that are of interest to the one or more users. The sharing of media clips as described herein may also help one or more potential users of the media distribution service to discover and register to be end users of the media distribution service. For example access to a shared media clip may draw potential users to access and install a media service client application on their media player devices such as by way of deep linking into the application. Additionally or alternatively the sharing of media clips as described herein may facilitate interaction between end users of the media distribution service which may provide a way for end users of the media distribution service to express themselves one to another in relation to media programs and or the media distribution service.

In certain examples clip management facility may place limits on sharing of media clips. For example clip management facility may limit the total time of media content that may be shared such as by imposing a predefined per content percentage limit or a predefined per user percentage limit. Such limits may help to ensure that media content is shared as intended and that the media clip sharing tools are not abused.

As mentioned a user may define a media clip of a media program during playback of the media program and continue to consume the media program uninterrupted both while the media clip is created and after the media clip is created. The lack of interruption may be due to the ease and speed with which the user is able to define the media clip and or due to the playback of the media clip being temporarily paused during user definition of the media clip.

The user may access edit and or share the saved media clip at a later time e.g. after playback of the media program has ended . For example the user may access a particular view of a media service GUI which view may include a feed of media clips that have been defined by the user and saved to the user profile for the user. To illustrate one example a home page view of the media service GUI may include a dashboard view having a section dedicated to representing media clips that have been defined by the user.

As shown GUI view may include a menu area that includes content such as a menu option for exiting the media service client application a user profile indicator e.g. a photo or avatar for a user a search option for searching the media distribution service a channel option for accessing media channels e.g. television channels that the user is following a shows option for accessing media programs e.g. television series that the user is following and a people option for accessing content e.g. shared media clips associated with profiles of end users of the media distribution service that the user is following. User interface content representing the media channels media programs or users being followed by the user may be displayed in a home page content area of GUI view .

GUI view may also include a media clip area in which user interface content representing media clips that the user has defined may be displayed. For example still images e.g. still images and may represent media clips that have been defined by the user and are available for the user to access for playback and or share with one or more other people.

Clip management facility may populate media clip area by selecting one or more media clips from the user profile for the user and providing still images for the selected media clips for inclusion in media clip area . In certain examples clip management facility may order the selected media clips in reverse chronological order based on when the media clips were created.

In response to a user selection of a still image representing a media clip in GUI view clip management facility may provide another GUI view for display. The other GUI view may include one or more user selectable options for consuming e.g. playing back editing and or sharing the media clip. Accordingly the user may conveniently discover a saved media clip and consume edit and or share the saved media clip at any time that is convenient for the user.

The user may also be able to access media clips shared by other end users of the media distribution service. In certain examples user interface content representing media clips shared by other users may be provided by clip management facility for display in the home page content area of GUI view . For example when channels option is selected one or more recently shared media clips of media programs provided on media channels followed by the user may be represented in the home page content area of GUI view . When shows option is selected one or more recently shared media clips of media programs followed by the user may be represented in the home page content area of GUI view . When people option is selected one or more media clips recently shared by other users being followed by the user may be represented in the home page content area of GUI view .

As shown GUI view may be similar to GUI view and may include user interface content in the home page content area that represents media clips that have been shared by other users of the media distribution service. Clip management facility may select the shared media clips for inclusion in GUI view based on the media clips being shared by users followed by the user on the media clips being clips of media programs followed by the user and or on the media clips being clips of media programs distributed on media channels followed by the user.

Additionally or alternatively to representing media clips in a media service GUI home page view such as is illustrated in and media clips may be represented in other media service GUI views such as a user profile view of the media service GUI. A user profile view may provide a user with a view of the user s activity with the media service which activity may include definition of media clips by the user. A user profile view may additionally or alternatively include user interface content that represents media clips shared by other users being followed by the user.

In certain examples a media service GUI view may include a trending display area in which user interface content representing popular media clips is displayed. Clip management facility may receive a request for popular media clips and may responds by identifying popular media clips and providing user interface content representing the identified media clips for inclusion in a GUI view. Clip management facility may determine the popularity of media clips in any suitable way such as based on clip sharing statistics e.g. sharing rates quantity of shares number of users sharing etc. and or viewing statistics for media programs.

In certain examples clip management facility may provide one or more media clip tools for use by a user to define a collage of media clips which collage may be shared and or consumed as a single entity in any of the ways described herein. For example clip management facility may provide a tool for use by the user to string together multiple media clips e.g. media clips previously defined by the user and or media clips shared by other users to form a playlist of media clips such as by dragging graphical objects representing the media clips onto a timeline. Clip management facility may generate and save data representative of the collage of media clips. The data representative of the collage of media clips may be represented as a data entity that is usable by a media player device to access and playback the collage of media clips as a playlist of media clips.

In certain examples clip management facility may provide one or more media clip tools for use by a user to insert user generated media content into a collage of media clips. For example the user may use an appropriately configured user device to record audio video content of the user providing an introduction narrative or other commentary for the media clips e.g. a selfie video of the user . The user may then use the tools to add the recorded content to the collage of media clips in any suitable way.

System may be implemented as may suit a particular application. In certain examples for instance system may be implemented as part of and or in association with a media distribution service such as an on demand media content service a television service e.g. a subscription television service a live or scheduled television service that distributes television content in accordance with a schedule defined by a party other than an end user of the service a catch up television service that provides time shifted access to live or scheduled television content as a service a broadcast multicast or narrowcast television service a scheduled television content distribution service a mobile television distribution service etc. a mobile media distribution service that distributes media content for access and play back by personal mobile devices e.g. a mobile video distribution service and or any other media distribution service.

As shown in system may include a media content provider system provider system and a media distribution service server system server system communicatively coupled by way of a network . Provider system may be associated with e.g. operated by a source provider of media content and may provide media content to server system for distribution by server system over a network to one or more end users of a media distribution service.

Server system may be associated with e.g. operated by a provider of a media distribution service. Server system may include one or more server side computing devices. Server system may receive pre process maintain e.g. in a content data network and distribute the media content to end users of the media distribution service. An end user of the media distribution service may use a user device to access the media distribution service and or media content distributed by way of the media distribution service. User device may include any media player device or other computing device configured to communicate with server system by way of network access media content distributed by server system and process and provide the accessed media content for consumption by end user . In certain examples user device is a personal mobile device of end user .

Provider system server system and user device may communicate using any communication platforms and technologies suitable for transporting data and or communication signals. Network and or network may include but are not limited to one or more wireless networks Wi Fi networks wireless communication networks mobile telephone networks e.g. cellular telephone networks mobile phone data networks broadband networks narrowband networks the Internet local area networks wide area networks live television transmission networks and any other networks capable of carrying media content data and or communications signals between user device and server system and or between provider system and server system . Communications between user device and server system or between provider system and server system may be transported using any one of the above listed networks or any combination or sub combination of the above listed networks. Network and network may be the same network or separate networks.

Server system and or user device may perform one or more operations to provide the media distribution service to end user . Server system and or user device may provide a media service user interface through which end user may interact with the media distribution service. Through media service user interface end user may access the media distribution service such as by accessing one or more features of the media distribution service and or media content accessible through the media distribution service. In certain examples media service user interface may include a graphical user interface provided by server system and or user device for display on a display screen and for use by end user to interact with the media distribution service. Media service user interface may be displayed on any suitable display screen accessible by end user including on a display screen of a display device included in user device or communicatively connected to user device . Media service user interface may include any of the exemplary GUI views described herein.

In certain examples server system may maintain a media service user profile for end user . User profile may be associated with an account of end user with the media distribution service. User profile may include information about end user service access credentials for end user e.g. subscription credentials device information for one or more computing devices e.g. user device used by end user to access the media distribution service service settings for end user historical information about interaction of end user with the media distribution service and or any other information associated with end user and the media distribution service. User profile may also include data representative of media clips defined by end user as described herein.

Components of system e.g. facilities and may be implemented entirely by user device e.g. as a mobile application or other software application installed on user device entirely by server system e.g. as an application server implemented by server system or distributed across user device and server system e.g. as a mobile application or other software application installed on user device and an application server implemented by server system . Accordingly server system and or user device may perform one or more of the media clip operations described herein.

Server system may maintain media clip data e.g. media clip data representative of media clips. The media clip data may include any of the data representative of media clips described herein such as media program identifiers and offsets. The media clip data may also include user interface content representative of the media clips e.g. still images representing the media clips . Server system and or user device may use the media clip data to populate media service user interface with user interface content representative of media clips and or to access media clips for playback by user device .

In certain examples server system may maintain media clip data representative of different types of media clips. For example server system may maintain media clip data for media clips defined by one or more end users of the media distribution service media clip data for media clips defined by a source provider of media content e.g. a source provider operating provider system and or media clip data for media clips defined by a provider of the media distribution service e.g. a service provider operating server system . Media clips defined by a content provider or a service provider may be referred to as curated media clips. Examples of such media clips may include without limitation promotional clips defined by a content provider e.g. clips designed to promote media programs provided by the content provider and or clips curated by a service provider.

In certain examples media clips curated by a service provider such as a provider of a media distribution service may be curated automatically with no direct user interaction. For example clip management facility which may be implemented by server system may algorithmically generate media clips based on metadata information for media programs and without direct user interaction. Clip management facility may utilize any suitable algorithms to automatically generate media clips. As an example clip management facility may generate media clips based on video segmentation algorithms for scene or shot transitions. Additionally or alternatively clip management facility may generate media clips based on historical user interactions with media programs such as by generating media clips based on historical user playback e.g. playback operations like play stop pause resume fast forward rewind skip etc. of media programs and or historical definition of media clips by end users of a media distribution service. Clip management facility may aggregate and analyze data representative of historical interactions of end user with media programs and based on the aggregate data and on predefined algorithms identify areas of interest in the media programs and or optimal media clip boundaries in the media programs. From the determined areas of interest and or optimal media clip boundaries clip management facility may automatically generate one or more media clips which may be referred to as candidate media clips. Clip management facility may provide such media clips as recommendations to one or more end users of a media distribution service.

Any of the different types of media clips maintained by server system may be shared accessed and or consumed in any of the ways described herein. Additionally any of the different types of media clips maintained by server system may be represented in media service user interface . For example a GUI view may include user interface content representing one or more different types of media clips. In certain examples the user interface content may indicate the type of a media clip represented in a GUI view such as by indicating a content provider service provider or end user who defined the media clip. For instance for a set of media clips represented in a media clip area of a GUI view e.g. media clip area of GUI view the user interface content may indicate a type or source of each of the media clips.

Turning to method in step a system detects a user request to create a clip of a media program such as described herein.

In step the system automatically creates the clip of the media program. The system may create the clip of the media program in any suitable away in response to the user request received in step . For example the system may automatically create the clip of the media program in accordance with method shown in and or without any additional user input from a user.

In step the system provides a media clip editing tool for use by a user to edit the clip of the media program. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein. The media clip editing tool may include any of the exemplary media clip editing tools described herein.

In step the system detects a user request to share the clip of the media program such as described herein.

In step the system provides a clip sharing tool for use by a user to share the clip of the media program. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein. The media clip sharing tool may include any of the exemplary media clip sharing tools described herein.

Turning to method in step a system determines a playback time of a media program at which a user request to create a clip of a media program is detected such as described herein.

In step the system selects a start time for the clip based on the determined playback time of the media program and on a predefined automatic start time selection setting such as described herein.

In step the system selects an end time for the clip based on the determined playback time of the media program and on a predefined automatic end time selection setting such as described herein.

Turning to method in step a system detects a request to populate a user interface with user interface content representative of a set of media clips such as described herein. The user interface may include a media service user interface or any GUI view of the media service user interface e.g. a home page view of the media service user interface .

In step the system selects one or more media clips for inclusion in the user interface. The system may select the one or more media clips to include in the user interface based on any suitable predefined selection criteria. As described herein in certain examples the system may select the one or more media clips to include in the user interface from a plurality of media clips that have been defined by a user and saved to a user profile for the user.

In step the system provides user interface content representative of the selected one or more media clips for inclusion in the user interface such as described herein. As described herein the user interface content may be selected by a user to access any of the media clips represented in the user interface.

In certain embodiments one or more of the processes described herein may be implemented at least in part as instructions embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium and executable by one or more computing devices. In general a processor e.g. a microprocessor receives instructions from a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory and executes those instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions may be stored and or transmitted using any of a variety of known computer readable media.

A computer readable medium also referred to as a processor readable medium includes any non transitory medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer e.g. by a processor of a computer . Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include for example dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD any other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable PROM EPROM a Flash Electrically EPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other tangible medium from which a computer can read.

Communication interface may be configured to communicate with one or more computing devices. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem an audio video connection and any other suitable interface.

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting executing and or directing execution of one or more of the instructions processes and or operations described herein. Processor may execute and or direct execution of operations as directed by one or more applications or other computer executable instructions such as may be stored in storage device or another computer readable medium.

Storage device may include one or more data storage media devices or configurations and may employ any type form and combination of data storage media and or device. For example storage device may include but is not limited to a hard drive network drive flash drive magnetic disc optical disc RAM DRAM other non volatile and or volatile data storage units or a combination or sub combination thereof. Electronic data including data described herein may be temporarily and or permanently stored in storage device . For example data representative of one or more applications configured to direct processor to perform any of the operations described herein may be stored within storage device . In some examples data may be arranged in one or more databases residing within storage device .

I O module may be configured to receive user input and provide user output and may include any hardware firmware software or combination thereof supportive of input and output capabilities. For example I O module may include hardware and or software for capturing user input including but not limited to a keyboard or keypad a touch screen component e.g. touch screen display a receiver e.g. a radio frequency RF or infrared receiver and or one or more input buttons.

I O module may include one or more devices for presenting output to a user including but not limited to a graphics engine a display e.g. a display screen one or more output drivers e.g. display drivers one or more audio speakers and one or more audio drivers. In certain embodiments I O module is configured to provide graphical data to a display for presentation to a user. The graphical data may be representative of one or more GUI views and or any other graphical content as may serve a particular implementation.

In some examples any of the facilities described herein may be implemented by or within one or more components of computing device . For example one or more applications residing within storage device may be configured to direct processor to perform one or more processes or functions associated with clip management facility . Likewise storage facility may be implemented by or within storage device . Such an implementation may be referred to as a computer implemented system such as a computer implemented media clip system .

One or more of the systems methods elements operations features tools etc. described herein may improve operation and or performance of computing device such as by conserving processing and or memory resources of computing device and or by providing for efficient operation of computing device for example.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store and or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

In the preceding description various exemplary embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. For example certain features of one embodiment described herein may be combined with or substituted for features of another embodiment described herein. The description and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

