---

title: Methods and devices for labeling a number
abstract: A method for a device to label a number is disclosed. The method includes: receiving an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal, the unknown number being a telephone number provided to a user by the service application, and the calling terminal invoking a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number; acquiring an application type of the service application according to the application identification; and labeling the unknown number according to the application type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648152&OS=09648152&RS=09648152
owner: Xiaomi Inc.
number: 09648152
owner_city: Beijing
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20151229
---
The present application is based upon and claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. CN201510150053.6 filed Mar. 31 2015 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of computer technology and more particularly to methods and devices for labeling a number.

Users often receive unknown calls. When an unknown call is a harassing phone call a user may label the harassing phone call such that the user may directly reject the harassing phone call next time the harassing phone call comes in.

The related art provides a method for labeling a number. After a terminal receives and hangs up a phone call of an unknown number an identification label input by the user according to the contents of the conversation is acquired. The identification label and the unknown number are sent to a server. The server stores the corresponding relationship between the unknown number and the identification label and pushes the corresponding relationship to other terminals such that users of other terminals may determine whether to accept calls according to the identification label when they receives calls associated with the unknown number.

According to a first aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a method for a device to label a number. The method includes receiving an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal the unknown number being a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invoking a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number acquiring an application type of the service application according to the application identification and labeling the unknown number according to the application type.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a device for labeling a number. The device includes a processor and a memory for storing instructions executable by the processor. The processor is configured to perform receiving an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal the unknown number being a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invoking a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number acquiring an application type of the service application according to the application identification and labeling the unknown number according to the application type.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of a server cause the server to perform receiving an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal the unknown number being a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invoking a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number acquiring an application type of the service application according to the application identification and labeling the unknown number according to the application type.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The following description refers to the accompanying drawings in which the same numbers in different drawings represent the same or similar elements unless otherwise represented. The implementations set forth in the following description of exemplary embodiments do not represent all implementations consistent with the invention. Instead they are merely examples of devices and methods consistent with aspects related to the invention as recited in the appended claims.

In step an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal are received. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number.

In step an application type of the service application is acquired according to the application identification.

Accordingly in the method for labeling a number provided by the present disclosure an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal are received. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number. An application type of the service application is acquired according to the application identification and the unknown number is labeled according to the application type. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that the user may input an incorrect identification label for an unknown number resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The method improves the accuracy in labeling an unknown number.

In step it is detected whether a service application is invoking a telephone application to call an unknown number. The unknown number is a telephone number provided by the service application to a user.

In step when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number an application type of the service application is acquired.

Accordingly in the method for labeling a number provided by the present disclosure when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number an application type of the service application is acquired. The unknown number stored in calling records is labeled according to the application type. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that the user may input an incorrect identification label resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The method improves the accuracy in labeling an unknown number.

In step it is detected whether a service application is invoking a telephone application to call an unknown number. The unknown number is a telephone number provided by the service application to a user.

A telephone application is an application for calling a telephone number and can be provided by an operating system of the calling terminal.

A service application is an application having a permission to invoke the telephone application. In the present embodiment the service application can provide an unknown number to a user and present a calling icon on a display screen for calling the unknown number to the user. After the user clicks the calling icon the service application invokes the telephone application to call the unknown number. The unknown number can be pushed by a server to the service application or can be included in the service application by a developer in developing the service application. How the service application obtains the unknown number is not limited by the embodiments of the present disclosure.

In one exemplary embodiment the service application is a taxi application which can provide a telephone number of a nearby driver to the user. At this time the telephone number is an unknown number to the user. The taxi application also presents a calling icon on a screen for calling the telephone number. After the user clicks the calling icon the taxi application invokes the telephone application to call the telephone number of the taxi driver.

In another exemplary embodiment the service application is a courier application which can provide the user with a telephone number of a delivery man who is handling an express delivery to the user. At this time the telephone number is an unknown number to the user. The courier application also provides a calling icon for calling the telephone number. After the user clicks the calling icon the courier application invokes the telephone application to call the telephone number of the delivery man.

In the present embodiment the calling terminal can monitor an application programming interface API of the telephone application. When it detects that a certain service application is invoking the API it is determined that the service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number.

In step when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number an application type of the service application is acquired.

In some embodiments the calling terminal can label the unknown number with the application identification. Since the application identification may not be intuitive the calling terminal can also label the unknown number according to the application name the application type or other information of the service application. When the unknown number is to be labeled with the application type and the application type of the service application has been stored in the calling terminal the calling terminal can read out the application type and label the unknown number in the calling records according to the application type. If the application type of the service application is not stored in the calling terminal the calling terminal can acquire the application type from the server and label the unknown number in the calling records according to the application type. For example if the service application is a taxi application the application type can be taxi service and if the service application is a courier application the application type can be courier service.

When the unknown number stored in calling records is labeled according to the application type the calling terminal can use the application type as the label of the unknown number. Or the calling terminal can acquire an attribute corresponding to the application type and use the attribute to label the unknown number. The attribute label indicates a user type of the unknown number. For example if the service application is a taxi application the attribute label may indicate that a user of the unknown number is a driver and if the service application is a courier application the attribute label may indicate that a user of the unknown number is a delivery man.

In step when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number the unknown number and an application identification of the service application are sent to a server. The server is configured to label the unknown number according to the application type based on the acquired application type of the service application.

The calling terminal can learn which service application is invoking the telephone application and thus read the application identification of the service application which identifies one service application. The calling terminal can also acquire the unknown number called by the telephone application and send the unknown number and the application identification to the server. The server determines the application type of the service application according to the application identification and labels the unknown number according to the application type.

After the server labels the unknown number according to the application type in case where the calling terminal corresponding to the unknown number calls another terminal and the unknown number is not included in the calling records of said another terminal said another terminal may request for the label corresponding to the unknown number from the server. The server sends the label corresponding to the unknown number to said another terminal such that the user of said another terminal can determine a user type of the called terminal according to the label and then determine whether to accept the call.

In the present embodiment the order in performing steps through is not restricted. For example step can be performed before step or after step or simultaneously with step .

Accordingly in the method for labeling a number provided by the present disclosure when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number an application type of the service application is acquired. The unknown number stored in calling records is labeled according to the application type. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that the user may input an incorrect identification label resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The method improves the accuracy in labeling an unknown number.

Further labeling an unknown number stored in the calling records according to an application type solves the problem that in case where multiple unknown numbers are stored in the calling records the user cannot discern between the unknown numbers. The method allows the user to discern between unknown numbers.

In step the calling terminal detects whether a service application is invoking a telephone application to call an unknown number. The unknown number is a telephone number provided by the service application to a user.

A telephone application is an application for calling a telephone number and can be provided by an operating system of the calling terminal.

A service application is an application having a permission to invoke the telephone application. In the present embodiment the service application can provide an unknown number to a user and present a calling icon for calling the unknown number to the user. After the user clicks the calling icon the service application invokes the telephone application to call the unknown number. The unknown number can be pushed to the service application by a server or can be included in the service application by a developer in developing the service application. How the service application obtains the unknown number is not limited by the embodiments of the present disclosure.

In one exemplary embodiment the service application is a taxi application which can provide a telephone number of a nearby driver to the user. At this time the telephone number is an unknown number to the user. The taxi application also presents a calling icon for calling the telephone number. After the user clicks the calling icon the taxi application invokes the telephone application to call the telephone number of the taxi driver.

In another exemplary embodiment the service application is a courier application which can provide the user with a telephone number of a delivery man who is handling an express delivery to the user. At this time the telephone number is an unknown number to the user. The express delivery application also provides a calling icon for calling the telephone number of the delivery man. After the user clicks the calling icon the courier application invokes the telephone application to call the telephone number.

In the present embodiment the calling terminal can monitor an API of the telephone application. When it detects that a certain service application is invoking the API it is determined that the service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number.

In step when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number the calling terminal sends the unknown number and an application identification of the service application to a server.

The calling terminal can learn which service application is invoking the telephone application and thus the calling terminal can read the application identification of the service application which identifies one service application. The calling terminal can also acquire the unknown number called by the telephone application and send the unknown number and the application identification to the server.

In step when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number an application type of the service application is acquired and the unknown number stored in calling records is labeled according to the application type.

After it calls the unknown number the calling terminal stores the unknown number in the calling records. In case where multiple unknown numbers are stored in the calling records it is difficult for the user to discern the unknown numbers. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the calling terminal can label the unknown number according to the application type of the service application. This allows the user to conveniently manage the unknown numbers stored in the calling records.

In some embodiments the calling terminal can label the unknown number with the application identification. But since the application identification may not be intuitive the calling terminal can also label the unknown number according to the application name the application type or other information of the service application. When the unknown number is to be labeled with the application type and the application type of the service application has been stored in the calling terminal the calling terminal can read out the application type and label the unknown number stored in the calling records according to the application type. If the application type of the service application is not stored in the calling terminal the calling terminal can acquire the application type from the server and label the unknown number stored in the calling records according to the application type. For example if the service application is a taxi application the application type can be a taxi service and if the service application is a courier application the application type can be a courier service.

When the unknown number stored in calling records is labeled according to the application type the calling terminal can use the application type as the label of the unknown number. Or the calling terminal can also acquire an attribute corresponding to the application type and use the attribute to label the unknown number. The attribute label indicates a user type of the unknown number. For example if the service application is a taxi application the attribute label may indicate that a user of the unknown number is a driver and if the service application is a courier application the attribute label may indicate that a user of the unknown number is a delivery man.

In the present embodiment the terminal can only perform step or only step or both of step and step . But the present embodiment does not limit the order in performing step and step . That is step can be performed before step or after step or simultaneously with step .

In step the server receives an application identification of the service application and the unknown number sent from the calling terminal. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application. And the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number.

In step the server acquires an application type of the service application based on the application identification.

Corresponding relationships between application identifications and application types may be pre stored in the server. The corresponding relationships can be manually collected or can also be collected in other manners. The source of the corresponding relationships is not limited in the present embodiment.

In step the server determines whether a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number exists. The user feedback label may be a feedback label about a user type of the unknown number which is collected from a previous user of the service application or other applications. For example after user A accepts a call of an unknown number a it may be determined according to the contents of the conversation that the unknown number a is of a delivery man. At this time a user feedback label delivery man can be generated and sent to the server. The server stores the user feedback label delivery man as corresponding to the unknown number sets a number of calls received from the delivery man to 1 and records a time when the user feedback label is generated. After a time period a calling terminal of user B also accepts a call of the unknown number a generates a user feedback label delivery man and sends it to the server. The server increases the number of calls from delivery man to 2 and updates the generation time of the user feedback label with the time of this second call.

Since the server labels the unknown number according to the application type when a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number exists in the server the server can label the unknown number according to the user feedback label and the application type.

In step when a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number does not exist the server labels the unknown number with an attribute label corresponding to the application type. The attribute label is for labeling a user type of the unknown number.

When a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number does not exist in the server the server can use the application type to label the unknown number or acquire an attribute label corresponding to the application type and use the attribute label to label the unknown number. The attribute label indicates a user type of the unknown number. For example if the service application is a taxi application the attribute label may indicate that a user of the unknown number is a driver and if the service application is a courier application the attribute label may indicate that a user of the unknown number is a delivery man.

In step when a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number exists the server labels the unknown number with the user feedback label or the attribute label corresponding to the application type. The attribute label is for labeling a user type of the unknown number.

When the server includes a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number the server can also check the user feedback label. If the user feedback label is accurate the unknown number can be labeled with the user feedback label or the attribute label and if the user feedback label is not accurate the unknown number can be labeled with the attribute label thereby it may ensure that the unknown number is accurately labeled.

In exemplary embodiments labeling the unknown number with the user feedback label or the attribute label corresponding to the application type includes 

2 when the attribute label is different from the user feedback label acquiring a most recent user feedback label and detecting whether a time duration between a first time when the user feedback label is generated and a current time is longer than a predetermined time duration 

3 when the time duration between the first time and the current time is longer than the predetermined time duration labeling the unknown number with the attribute label.

The server can detect whether the attribute label is identical to the user feedback label. When the attribute label is identical to the user feedback label it determines that the user feedback label is accurate and labels the unknown number with the user feedback label. When the attribute label is different from the user feedback label the server can based on the acquired most recent user feedback label calculate a time duration between the time when the user feedback label is generated and the current time. The server can further detect whether the time duration is longer than a predetermined time duration. When the time duration is longer than the predetermined time duration it determines that the user feedback label is invalid and labels the unknown number with the attribute label.

For example the server received a user feedback label delivery man on Jan. 2 2014 received a user feedback label delivery man on Feb. 10 2014 and acquired an attribute label driver on Mar. 10 2015 and the predetermined time duration is 12 months. The server calculates that it is 13 months between the generation time of the most recent user feedback label and the current time which is longer than the predetermined time duration of 12 months and determines that the user feedback label delivery man is not accurate. Then the user feedback label delivery man is deleted and the unknown number is labeled with the attribute label driver .

1 when the time duration between the generation time of a user feedback label and the current time is shorter than the predetermined time duration determining a first number of times the user feedback label is received and a second number of times the attribute label is received within a predetermined time period 

2 when a difference between the second number and the first number is greater than a predetermined threshold labeling the unknown number with the attribute label and

3 when the difference between the second number and the first number is smaller than or equal to the predetermined threshold labeling the unknown number with the user feedback label.

For example the server received a user feedback label delivery man on Nov. 10 2014 and acquired an attribute label driver on Mar. 10 2015 and the predetermined time duration is 12 months. The server calculates the time duration between the time when the most recent user feedback label is received and the current time is 4 months which is shorter than the predetermined time duration of 12 months. Then the server labels the unknown number according to a first number of times the user feedback label is received and a second number of times the attribute label is received within a predetermined time period.

In the illustrated embodiment the predetermined time period is from Sep. 10 2014 to Mar. 10 2015 and the predetermined threshold is 10. The server determines that the first number of times the user feedback label delivery man is received is 1 and the second number of times the attribute label driver is received is 12. The difference between the second number and the first number is 11 which is larger than the predetermined threshold of 10. Thus the server determines that the user feedback label delivery man is not accurate. Then the user feedback label delivery man is deleted and the unknown number is labeled with the attribute label driver . But if the second number of times is 8 and the difference between the second number and the first number is 7 which is smaller than the predetermined threshold of 10 the server deletes the attribute label driver and labels the unknown number with the user feedback label delivery man or the server can prompt an administer to manually label the unknown number.

In step when the calling terminal calls a call receiving terminal corresponding to the unknown number the server sends the application type to the call receiving terminal. The call receiving terminal is configured to display the application type.

In one embodiment the calling terminal can send a terminal identification of the call receiving terminal corresponding to the unknown number to the server when it is calling the call receiving terminal. The server determines that the calling terminal is calling the call receiving terminal upon reception of the terminal identification and determines the call receiving terminal according to the terminal identification.

In another embodiment the call receiving terminal corresponding to the unknown number sends a request for inquiring a call source upon receipt of a call from the calling terminal. The request may be for requesting an application type of the service application and include a first telephone number of the call receiving terminal and a second telephone number of the calling terminal. The server reads the first telephone number of the call receiving terminal and the second telephone number of the calling terminal from the request for inquiring a calling source. The server determines whether currently a calling terminal of the second telephone number is sending an unknown number and an application identification to the server and whether the unknown number is the same as the first telephone number of the call receiving terminal. If a calling terminal of the second telephone number is sending an unknown number and an application identification to the server and the unknown number is the same as the first telephone number of the call receiving terminal the server acquires an application type of the application identification and sends the application type to the call receiving terminal. The call receiving terminal can display the application type on a calling interface such that the user of the call receiving terminal can determine the source of the call according to the application type and determine whether to accept the call.

After the server labels the unknown number according to the application type if the call receiving terminal corresponding to the unknown number is calling another terminal and the unknown number is not included in the calling records of said another terminal said another terminal may request for the label corresponding to the unknown number from the server. The server sends the label corresponding to the unknown number to said another terminal such that the user of said another terminal can determine the user type of the call receiving terminal according to the label and determine whether to accept the call.

Because the server can acquire the unknown number provided by a service application of the calling terminal and label the unknown number according to the application type the server does not need to purchase the unknown number from the provider of the service application and the cost of labeling the unknown number can be lowered.

Accordingly in the exemplary methods for labeling a number consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure a server receives an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number. The server acquires an application type of the service application according to the application identification and labels the unknown number according to the application type. Because the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that a user may input an incorrect identification label resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The methods improve the accuracy in labeling the unknown number.

In addition a request for inquiring a calling source sent from the call receiving terminal corresponding to the unknown number is received. The request for inquiring a calling source is a request for an application type of a service application sent by the call receiving terminal upon receipt of a call. The application type is sent to the call receiving terminal such that the source of the call can be provided to the call receiving terminal and displayed to the user so that the user can determine whether to accept the call.

Further labeling an unknown number stored in the calling records according to an application type solves the problem that in case where multiple unknown numbers are stored in the calling records the user cannot discern between the unknown numbers. The method allows the user to discern between unknown numbers.

The information receiving module is configured to receive an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number.

The type acquiring module is configured to acquire an application type of the service application according to the application identification received by the information receiving module .

The number labeling module is configured to label the unknown number according to the application type acquired by the type acquiring module .

Accordingly the device for labeling a number consistent with the embodiments of the present disclosure receives an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number. An application type of the service application is acquired according to the application identification and the unknown number is labeled according to the application type. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that the user may input an incorrect identification label for an unknown number resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The device improves the accuracy in labeling an unknown number.

The information receiving module is configured to receive an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number 

The type acquiring module is configured to acquire an application type of the service application according to the application identification received by the information receiving module .

The number labeling module is configured to label the unknown number according to the application type acquired by the type acquiring module .

In some embodiments the number labeling module includes a label determining sub module a first labeling sub module and a second labeling sub module .

The label determining sub module is configured to determine whether a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number exists. The user feedback label may be a feedback label about a user type of the unknown number which is collected from a previous user of the service application or other applications.

The first labeling sub module is configured to when the label determining sub module determines that a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number does not exist label the unknown number with an attribute label corresponding to the application type.

The second labeling sub module is configured to when the label determining sub module determines that a user feedback label corresponding to the unknown number exists label the unknown number with the user feedback label or the attribute label corresponding to the application type. The attribute label is for labeling a user type of the unknown number.

In some embodiments the second labeling sub module is further configured to detect whether the attribute label is identical to the user feedback label when the attribute label is different from the user feedback label acquire a most recent user feedback label and detect whether a time duration between a first time when the user feedback label is generated and a current time is longer than a predetermined time duration and when the time duration between the first time and the current time is longer than the predetermined time duration label the unknown number with the attribute label.

In some embodiments the second labeling sub module is further configured to when the time duration between the first time and the current time is shorter than the predetermined time duration determining a first number of times the user feedback label is received and a second number of times the attribute label is received within a predetermined time period when a difference between the second number and the first number is greater than a predetermined threshold labeling the unknown number with the attribute label and when a difference between the second receiving number and the first receiving number is smaller than or equal to the predetermined threshold labeling the unknown number with the user feedback label.

In some embodiments the device further includes a type sending module configured to when the calling terminal calls a call receiving terminal corresponding to the unknown number send the application type to the call receiving terminal. The call receiving terminal is configured to display the application type.

Accordingly the device receives an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invokes a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number. An application type of the service application is acquired according to the application identification and the unknown number is labeled according to the application type. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that the user may input an incorrect identification label for an unknown number resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The device improves the accuracy in labeling an unknown number.

In addition the device receives a request for inquiring a calling source sent from the call receiving terminal corresponding to the unknown number. The request for inquiring a calling source is a request for an application type of a service application sent by the call receiving terminal upon receipt of a call. The application type is sent to a call receiving terminal such that the source of the call can be provided to the call receiving terminal for the user to determine whether to accept the call.

The application detecting module is configured to detect whether a service application is invoking a telephone application to call an unknown number. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application.

The type acquiring module is configured to when the application detecting module detects that a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number acquire an application type of the service application.

The number labeling module is configured to label the unknown number stored in calling records according to the application type acquired by the type acquiring module .

Accordingly when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number the device acquires an application type of the service application. The unknown number stored in calling records is labeled according to the application type. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that the user may input an incorrect identification label for an unknown number resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The device improves the accuracy in labeling an unknown number.

The application detecting module is configured to detect whether a service application is invoking a telephone application to call an unknown number. The unknown number is a telephone number provided to a user by the service application.

The type acquiring module is configured to when the application detecting module detects that a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number acquire an application type of the service application.

The number labeling module is configured to label the unknown number stored in calling records according to the application type acquired by the type acquiring module .

In some embodiments the device further includes an information sending module configured to when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number send the unknown number and an application identification of the service application to a server. The server is configured to label the unknown number according to the application type based on the acquired application type of the service application.

Accordingly when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number the device acquires an application type of the service application. The unknown number stored in calling records is labeled according to the application type. Since the unknown number provided by the service application can provide a certain type of service to the user the unknown number can be labeled according to the application type of the service application. It solves the problem that the user may input an incorrect identification label for an unknown number resulting in inaccurate labeling of the unknown number. The device improves the accuracy in labeling an unknown number.

Further labeling an unknown number stored in the calling records according to an application type solves the problem that in case where multiple unknown numbers are stored in the calling records the user cannot discern between the unknown numbers. The device allows the user to discern between unknown numbers.

With respect to the devices in the above embodiments the specific manners for performing operations for individual modules therein have been described in detail in the embodiments of the methods which will not be elaborated herein.

A device for labeling a number consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure can implement the methods for labeling a number as described above. The device for labeling a number includes a processor and a memory for storing instructions executable by the processor.

receiving an application identification of a service application and an unknown number sent from a calling terminal the unknown number being a telephone number provided to a user by the service application and the calling terminal invoking a telephone application through the service application to call the unknown number 

acquiring an application type of the service application according to the application identification and

detecting whether a service application is invoking a telephone application to call an unknown number the unknown number being a telephone number provided to a user by the service application 

when a service application is invoking the telephone application to call the unknown number acquiring an application type of the service application and

Referring to the device may include one or more of the following components a processing component a memory a power component a multimedia component an audio component an input output I O interface a sensor component and a communication component .

The processing component typically controls overall operations of the device such as the operations associated with display telephone calls data communications camera operations and recording operations. The processing component may include one or more processors to execute instructions to perform all or part of the steps in the above described methods. Moreover the processing component may include one or more modules which facilitate the interaction between the processing component and other components. For instance the processing component may include a multimedia module to facilitate the interaction between the multimedia component and the processing component .

The memory is configured to store various types of data to support the operation of the device . Examples of such data include instructions for any applications or methods operated on the device contact data phonebook data messages pictures video etc. The memory may be implemented using any type of volatile or non volatile memory devices or a combination thereof such as a static random access memory SRAM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM a programmable read only memory PROM a read only memory ROM a magnetic memory a flash memory a magnetic or optical disk.

The power component provides power to various components of the device . The power component may include a power management system one or more power sources and any other components associated with the generation management and distribution of power in the device .

The multimedia component includes a screen providing an output interface between the device and the user. In some embodiments the screen may include a liquid crystal display LCD and a touch panel TP . If the screen includes the touch panel the screen may be implemented as a touch screen to receive input signals from the user. The touch panel includes one or more touch sensors to sense touches swipes and gestures on the touch panel. The touch sensors may not only sense a boundary of a touch or swipe action but also sense a period of time and a pressure associated with the touch or swipe action. In some embodiments the multimedia component includes a front camera and or a rear camera. The front camera and the rear camera may receive an external multimedia datum while the device is in an operation mode such as a photographing mode or a video mode. Each of the front camera and the rear camera may be a fixed optical lens system or have focus and optical zoom capability.

The audio component is configured to output and or input audio signals. For example the audio component includes a microphone configured to receive an external audio signal when the device is in an operation mode such as a call mode a recording mode and a voice recognition mode. The received audio signal may be further stored in the memory or transmitted via the communication component . In some embodiments the audio component further includes a speaker to output audio signals.

The I O interface provides an interface between the processing component and peripheral interface modules such as a keyboard a click wheel buttons and the like. The buttons may include but are not limited to a home button a volume button a starting button and a locking button.

The sensor component includes one or more sensors to provide status assessments of various aspects of the device . For instance the sensor component may detect an open closed status of the device relative positioning of components e.g. the display and the keypad of the device a change in position of the device or a component of the device a presence or absence of user contact with the device an orientation or an acceleration deceleration of the device and a change in temperature of the device . The sensor component may include a proximity sensor configured to detect the presence of nearby objects without any physical contact. The sensor component may also include a light sensor such as a CMOS or CCD image sensor for use in imaging applications. In some embodiments the sensor component may also include an accelerometer sensor a gyroscope sensor a magnetic sensor a pressure sensor or a temperature sensor.

The communication component is configured to facilitate communication wired or wirelessly between the device and other devices. The device can access a wireless network based on a communication standard such as WiFi 2G or 3G or a combination thereof. In one exemplary embodiment the communication component receives a broadcast signal or broadcast associated information from an external broadcast management system via a broadcast channel. In one exemplary embodiment the communication component further includes a near field communication NFC module to facilitate short range communications. For example the NFC module may be implemented based on a radio frequency identification RFID technology an infrared data association IrDA technology an ultra wideband UWB technology a Bluetooth BT technology and other technologies.

In exemplary embodiments the device may be implemented with one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs controllers micro controllers microprocessors or other electronic components for performing the above described methods.

In exemplary embodiments there is also provided a non transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions such as included in the memory executable by the processor in the device for performing the above described methods. For example the non transitory computer readable storage medium may be a ROM a RAM a CD ROM a magnetic tape a floppy disc an optical data storage device and the like.

The device may also include a power component configured to perform power management of the device wired or wireless network interface s configured to connect the device to a network and an input output I O interface . The device may operate based on an operating system stored in the memory such as Windows Server Mac OS X Unix Linux FreeBSD or the like.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the above described modules can each be implemented by hardware or software or a combination of hardware and software. One of ordinary skill in the art will also understand that multiple ones of the above described modules may be combined as one module and each of the above described modules may be further divided into a plurality of sub modules.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed here. This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following the general principles thereof and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

It will be appreciated that the present invention is not limited to the exact construction that has been described above and illustrated in the accompanying drawings and that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope thereof. It is intended that the scope of the invention only be limited by the appended claims.

