---

title: Providing a multi-tenant knowledge network
abstract: A computing system includes memory storing executable instructions and one or more processors operatively connected to the memory. The one or more processors execute the executable instructions to effectuate a method. The method may include (i) analyzing raw data obtained from a plurality of different data sources in order to identify one or more data structures of the raw data and to tag data identifying at least one of the plurality of different data sources; and (ii) generating a plurality of Universal Data Model (UDM) constructs. Each UDM construct may be based at least in part on the identified data structure(s) of the raw data. Each UDM construct may exclude the tagged data identifying at least one of the plurality of different data sources. Each UDM construct may organize the raw data into a particular arrangement of rows and columns.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607056&OS=09607056&RS=09607056
owner: CROSS COMMERCE MEDIA, INC.
number: 09607056
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151110
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 473 517 filed Aug. 29 2014 and sharing the same title issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 213 983 on Dec. 15 2015 which was a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 199 631 filed Mar. 6 2014 entitled Providing A Multi Tenant Knowledge Network issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 825 716 on Sep. 2 2014 which was a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 745 814 filed Jan. 20 2013 which was also entitled Providing A Multi Tenant Knowledge Network and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 713 076 on Apr. 29 2014. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 589 209 filed Jan. 20 2012 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Multi Tenant Knowledge Network. In addition this application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 547 202 filed Jul. 12 2012 entitled Advanced Database Systems and Methods. The foregoing patents and patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in their entireties.

The disclosure relates to business intelligence and in connection therewith to the provision and use of multi tenant business intelligence tools across computer networks.

As technology continues to advance more methods of tracking nearly every aspect of a business are developed. Customers interactions on websites can be tracked. Users posts to social networks can be viewed. Detailed sales logistics and marketing effectiveness data is collected and analyzed. Data sets will continue to grow in size because they are increasingly being gathered by ubiquitous information sensing mobile devices remote sensing technologies software logs cameras microphones radio frequency identification technology and a plethora of other sensor networks and tracking systems which exist all around us. In sum about 90 of the data in the history of the world today was created within the past two years. With the advances in the collection of data hitting the market with such force businesses are facing the ever daunting challenge of figuring out how to most effectively use these massive amounts of information to achieve their business goals.

This abundance of data is typically referred to as big data. In HBR October 2012 authors Andrew McAfee and Erik Brynjolfsson consider the impact of big data on companies performance. For example it is noted that as of 2012 2.5 exabytes of data created each day and that number is doubling roughly every forty 40 months. In fact more data cross the internet every second presently than were stored in the entire internet just twenty 20 years ago Big data takes the form of messages updates and images posted to social networks readings from sensors GPS signals from cell phones etc. Given the onset of the big data revolution it is critical that companies adopt techniques and tools designed to leverage the insights that big data can provide.

Businesses themselves typically do not have the capability or capacity to handle this large amount of data. Many companies therefore scale down available datasets to a more manageable size or use sample sizes and create inelegant methods of managing this remaining information. Many marketing sales and business managers will use a conventional spreadsheet to manage and visualize data a tedious process which ignores the power available in full datasets. In order to keep up with the amount of information available to companies and in order to keep ahead of competition many of these businesses turn to external vendors in order to manage this unwieldy amount of business data.

Application service providers have grown to play an ever increasing role in the space of business intelligence. Many Internet companies provide their own reporting tools and advertising platforms or other 3party technology providers to users of their services in order to keep those users dedicated customers. Applications such as Google Analytics. Epsilon Doubleclick LinkShare and the like allow users to monitor individuals accessing their websites and online media on a highly detailed level. Unfortunately each of these online services cultivates a walled garden of information which creates segmented pockets of data across a set of services. Accordingly business users traditionally were required to download data from each of these services and aggregate this disparate data on their own. Such a daunting task often led to undesirable or inefficient results.

Over the past few years information technology companies have rushed to create a market for the analysis of these segmented pools of data. Consulting groups branched out of traditional IT services powerhouses to provide assistance to individual businesses in the collection storage and management of their business data. The focus of these consultancies was and still is to take off the shelf hardware and software in order to create a custom proprietary solution for each individual business. The prevailing postulate amongst these types of consultants and the information technology departments working with those consultants is that business intelligence data is the property of the underlying business and should therefore be both safeguarded and managed on company owned systems. This conventional thinking creates the unfortunate situation whereby any business government or other enterprise cannot automate data management to take advantage of economies of scale or insights generated by trusted parties partners other divisions or non competitive industries around non proprietary data or useful third party data.

As the market evolved managed service providers developed which sought to eliminate the need for additional staff and the expensive hardware ownership costs from the equation. These managed service providers would own the requisite hardware software licenses and consulting know how in house and provide the service of utilization and configuration of a custom business intelligence system for its customers. While this new model reduces complexity to the purchaser of business analytics hardware and software it merely pushed the previous in house ownership model to an off site leased engagement. The business customer s data was still segmented and segregated and there was still a need for custom configuration and management of the business intelligence system by either a trained professional working for the business customer or a consultant provided by the managed service provider. Further businesses were still constrained to the limits of their custom systems and were presented prohibitively high costs to change or adjust those systems to meet new challenges and business needs as the market evolved. Time is also a consideration as it takes much longer to get answers from a managed service provider.

There exists a need for an improved method of business intelligence knowledge management and decision support such terms herein referred to both collectively and interchangeably wherein the overall cost of ownership and burden of management is further reduced. There further exists a need for a method of better analyzing and collaborating in the business intelligence knowledge management and decision support field in order to empower decision makers with information to yield creative and desired results.

Other problems and drawbacks also exist. For example current industry data models cannot support multiple companies from different verticals such as banking retail pharmaceutical and the like on a single platform running simultaneously across the same systems and software. These systems were enterprise based namely designed to support a single organization typically in one vertical with access only open to a limited number of business users employed by that organization and from within systems housed in the organization s technical infrastructure customization was needed. Thus an important need remains to permit multiple organizations and their employees consultants and advisers to access and perform business intelligence on a common pool of data. The inventors created the first multi tenant multi party and multi enterprise platform such terms herein referred to both collectively and interchangeably for business intelligence covering all of the components of a complete BI solution in a seamless efficient paradigm.

A knowledge network is provided which acts as a social and collaborative platform to create and exchange information knowledge and insights around data analysis and decision support performed by application software algorithms or third party analysis offered through an application platform to end users. For example a consulting company advertising agency and their client could collaborate around an analysis regarding a specific initiative e.g. analysis related to launching a new product line managed by a complicated permissioning system regulating access to portions of data managed by the application system.

Briefly described a multi tenant business intelligence system provides an integrated system of computers databases data processors and network based software that collectively support operative data processing to permit the consolidation access and collaboration of disparate data sets in a single business intelligence environment. The multi tenant business intelligence system includes at least one storage unit an integration unit and an analytical processing unit an application unit and a collaboration unit is preferably but not essentially incorporated. The system is advantageously though not necessarily adopted for on line application service provision of business intelligence and may involve a web based application accessible from a remote location via another s computer and or mobile device. The inventive method and computer product program comprise respectively steps and commands whereby functions corresponding to the foregoing system components are implemented.

A Unified Information and Storage and Universal Data Model. To enable multi tenant operations the system s modified data model UDM apply for data from multiple companies. This data are optimized to run applications which answer decision support questions. The architecture provides a platform designed to scale with large data sets for multiple customers and support multiple users running large concurrent queries or requests. To avoid problem the system limits the amount individual client access to queue up different queries.

The Universal Data Model is an important aspect of this disclosure and provides Business Intelligence Knowledge Management and decision support as an application service provider ASP . It is based on a universal taxonomy for numerous industry functions such as marketing sales logistics HR finance and the like each of these individual areas collectively contributing to the resulting taxonomy. This infrastructure allows multiple customers in different industries to break down how they work in each functional area to a set of common components. The universal nature of the taxonomy is what allows the system to work with many different types of customers simultaneously. Common with Charles Darwin s Taxonomy of Species the system builds a universal vocabulary to classify and extend aspects of different business types into a single model.

The benefits of this kind of a model go far beyond allowing multi tenant use of the software. By creating a single universal model and taxonomy and combining it with the ASP approach system operation it is possible to group data sets quickly and accurately and it helps within the Enterprise. For example a retail customer can combine their data sets on revenue growth with a banking customer. Historically this project would have been too difficult as each data set would have been formatted differently developed by two different modelers stored in different locations and due to the nature of the businesses being different the cost of combining would have been out of reach. The Universal Data Model overcomes these difficulties because the two industries are normalized to the Universal Data Model permitting simplified combination for analysis.

Even within industries two similar companies and even entities in the same company often use different providers. Prior to the Universal Data Model it would be hard to combine the two sets of data to be analyzed without significant expense or manual compilation. In the absence of the Universal Data Model multiple providers such as Salesforce and Siebel Peoplesoft and Workday Cheetah Mail and Epsilon would all appear to have different data definitions and thus analysis across different providers would be difficult to impossible. With the Universal Data Model data from different providers and often within the same software providers across different customers is normalized and the difference from those providers eliminated when the data is loaded into the UDM. This allows for analysis across multiple providers.

The platform includes facilities the group data to the knowledge network business intelligence and decision support engine. Grouping of data is the ability of more than one company to combine different or similar sets of data that they each have for analysis. An example of this might be two retailers looking to compare how their email campaigns are performing or two divisions in an insurance company looking to compare how news of a disaster is impacting consumer interest in their respective products. Despite potentially different business models different industries and perhaps different email providers as the Universal Data Model has normalized all this data the system can perform unified data analysis by simply gaining permission to allow collective use of the data.

The platform stores and affords access to and may otherwise maintain such as by organizing information relating to one or more interactions communications sales events campaigns or other data relevant to the user. The information may be in structured or unstructured form. Structured data embraces many types of data and includes information based on how the data is organized and arranged as for example select fields in information storage. Unstructured data is information without meaningful delineations for example a simple tweet from a Twitter user.

In certain aspects of the disclosure information may be held which is relevant to the user of the system directly or indirectly. For example direct data may describe the specific performance of the user s organization or public comments about the organization. Indirect data may describe as an example factors and information relevant to the field of the user s organization relevant or similar fields overall economic conditions socio political information and the like.

The integration unit provides for the capture of disparate data in a robust manner from various data sources. In various embodiments this is carried out so as to yield actionable information in real or nearly real time. For example the search unit may connect with multiple live data sources and or multiple customers within data sources and services across the Internet and aggregate those data feeds into a consistent data interpretation format with which a user can consistently evaluate the disparate data even across diverse applications. Integrated information may come from public proprietary and hybrid data sources and may comprise structured and unstructured data formats.

The Analytical processing unit receives information related to integrated data from the database. Based on a request from the user the analytical processing unit retrieves and filters pertinent information from the information storage in order to produce business intelligence reports and analysis for the user. In various embodiments the business intelligence reports and analysis is malleable and interactive such that the user may manipulate slice dice or drill deeper into the proffered analysis through a knowledge network. In some of those embodiments the analytics unit may provide responses to static or dynamic prompted questions or queries from the user in the form of an actionable decision support system.

The collaboration unit facilitates the sharing and cross market analysis of information amongst users and organizations. Upon the agreement between users or organizations the collaboration unit may aggregate integrated data from the collaborative parties and generate a superset of integrated data. This data may include individually owned public or both individually owned and public information. In various embodiments the individual users or organizations may then feed the analytics unit with the superset of data in order to receive more robust business intelligence and data analysis. According to some of those embodiments collaborative parties may share data for use with the analytics unit while individual proprietary or otherwise private data may remain abstracted or private to the counter collaborative party.

Since all the data exist in the platform and integrated via universal data model in a universal model an analysis can be run openly or anonymously. Customers access the system through the User Interface UI or API to select the analysis they wish to run and if they do not want to share the data with each other and limit sharing to the result of an analysis with other customers . An analysis that uses grouping can be one customer partnering and bartering for another s data in exchange perhaps for use of their data it can be for purchased data from a data provider like Axciom or other customers of the application platform or it can be with larger groups of other companies seeking to share a larger pool of salient data with each other to gain greater insights or knowledge. If a customer partners with another customer within the system or multiple customers they can also run the report openly which allows all the partners to see data.

The platform permits access to levels and thus prevents restricted data from being seen at specified levels in violation of either corporate or governmental guidelines. For example PII personally identifiable information might be access limited by other companies in a grouped network allowing use of the data for analysis but never precluding viewing at an individual level.

The application platform supports ASP clients using the Universal Data Model by accessing data for multiple clients from a similar or common source all at once and transforming this data with both other sources of data third party as well as proprietary data.

Permissioning The system permissioning techniques pass rights along between users directly and not necessarily through an administrator. If a user is given rights to use and see all or portions of data they may grant new users internal or external users the right to use or see the data while still being overseen by an administrator. This can be in the form of sharing data via email or other means grouping data for analysis or for viewing in a software or mobile interface. These rights may also be for other software programs to use the data to analyze and improve another technology for example the data might be analyzed to improve an ad placement or logistics for warehousing .

A side function of this type of permissioning is that a user now has the ability to subscribe to reports that they care about. In the operative system model a user selects the types of reports analyses or groups of reports analyses that they would like to see. Once they select these the system checks if access rights were granted to the data included or required in the reports or analyses from other prior granted reports . If new data is required for the report or analysis to run the system or administrator must grant that access to the user. This approach requires the user to determine what they need to do their job.

Sharing is an operation that allows a user to send a report or analysis to another user who may or may not have permission to access the analysis and underlying data. Sharing allows an authorized user to forward pertinent information from system memory to partners investors and other people that the user feels would benefit from seeing an analysis in the UI embedded link or other method such as Facebook and Twitter. This sharing does not require a user to be a registered with the system. Sharing is an alternative to insecurely emailing documents such as spreadsheets and also allows users to log communications around a given set of analyses within the system. Sharing is a social application within the software that allows multiple users to interact around the analysis presented through the system.

Presentations is a system application that applies the real time and live function of an analysis and allows the user to organize reports and analyses into a presentation to share or present. This functionally allows the presenter to change or filter reports and analyses in a live presentation. Viewers may also be given a token password access code to allow them access to see and if the presentation allows manipulate the report or analysis being presented. The benefit of this is to allow a viewer to explore the data during a presentation to comment written or verbal on an analysis of that data and to add other knowledge that the viewer might have to the presentation.

Third parties like ad networks pricing engines etc. can now provide analyses for free or for a subscription. The system supports the use by third parties including the ability to create algorithms and or analyses that use the application s UDM and infrastructure to provide results and resell them for a percentage of sale subscription fees to end users who want to offer access to 3party providers who are customers of the application platform to end users who want to enhance aspects of their business intelligence. More generally the system provides a multi tenant ASP platform with a set of standard and a la carte analyses that can be shared commented on and stored securely for a broad set of users in multiple organizations.

Commenting The system also allows users to leave comments or annotate analyses and reports and or information results and elements. This can be done intra organization but also to shared partners as well as grouped data partners. Finally the users comments and annotations can also be shown network wide for certain kinds of comments. For example if someone annotates an analysis dealing with consumer confidence that the entire network can see. These can be macro factors or how they see their sales being affected or affecting macro factors.

Discussion boards and chat Since this is a multi tenant environment with reports and analysis discussion boards and chat are done in ways that are tied to the analysis but also can be done where the discussion can take place and or be viewed by different organizations based on sharing the access to see or post messages. For example if I am an employee of a financial services company I might post a message tied to a profitability analysis. That message may be seen by internal company employees partners consultants agencies or open to the public network via system memorize access. This includes sharing with business partners current views and how to profit from them. The system also permits posting to the broader network to find other potential people experiencing the same types of issues exposed by the user data. The discussion is all tied around an analysis but also around the network

Shared free paid data System network will load data from third party providers like government data web trends and other sources . The network can take the data in and allow multiple people on the platform to access the data in a shared way. While typically each user would need its own copy of the data the network platform allows multiple customers to access the data for reporting or analysis purposes. Since that data is only needed once thanks to the Universal Data Model it means that one copy of data is all that is needed.

Analysis tools and store In addition to the system created analyses for our users the system has the ability to work with third parties such as a BCG or McKinsey who might want to design and build analyses and reports to resell. These analyses and reports would be pre built to the Universal Data Model and then user requests the analysis is populate the values we started within the network. In addition these third parties may sell services to application platform customers through the network

Accordingly in one aspect the disclosure is in a system comprising a database for maintaining a structured and unstructured dataset an integration unit configured to gather intelligence data from disparate data sources and integrated into the structured dataset an analytics unit configured to retrieve pertinent data from the dataset based on one or more search parameters and to return actionable business intelligence to the user at least some of the intelligence data being gathered and processed and analyzed in at least near real time for review by the user.

API to other vendors System architecture allows third party global vendors such as ad tech companies to integrate into the network to use analyses to make automated machine to machine decisions. This can be in the form of using an analysis to make rules based decisions or similar. The benefit to a technology vendor is that the universal model allows them to do one integration with the system and avoid having to do integration for similar types of companies e.g. Siebel versus Salesforce . In this example they could build an analysis that is neutral to the sources of data which can be used to help optimize their technology. There are two different benefits here. The first is to allow a technology company to use a pre existing analysis one of the system build in products or from the analysis store to help make decisions in their technology. The company may want to do this since they do not have all the data from multiple sources cleaned and ready or they may not have the ability to analyze the data.

The second reason may be that they want to write their own way formula to analyze or optimize their technology using the data of a customer or groups of customers or others willing to give them access to system data sets all using system technology . If the technology company writes their own formula they can be given access by their customers to run that formula against data in the system network to get answers back without requiring the customer surrender its data to the technology company or to have them replicate system parameters or analysis. The answer to the analysis would tell them what the software should do next and could be delivered via an API.

Data mining the automation of data mining processing In comparison to what is currently being done where an individual on a desktop machine does data mining via a manual process. The application automates the process of data mining.

These and other objects features and advantages of the business intelligence system methods and programs of the disclosure will be elucidated in the following further description including accompanying drawing figures.

To facilitate an understanding of the principles and features of the disclosure various illustrative embodiments are explained hereinafter. Although certain examples of the disclosure are explained in detail other embodiments are contemplated. Further in describing the illustrative embodiments specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. It is not intended that the disclosure is limited in its scope to the details of construction and arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The disclosure has other embodiments and can be practiced or carried out in various other ways as will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art once in possession of the subject matter herein.

The materials and components described as making up the various elements of the disclosure are intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many suitable materials and components that would perform the same or a similar function as the materials and components described herein are intended to be embraced within the scope of the disclosure. Such other materials and components not described herein can include but are not limited to for example those developed after making of this disclosure.

Various embodiments of the disclosure may include instructions executed on a computer. The system as shown in may be or include a computer system or multiple computer systems. The disclosure may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments of the instant disclosure may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held wireless devices such as mobile phones or PDAs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments of the instant disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computer system may include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit.

Computers typically include a variety of computer readable media that can form part of the system memory and be read by the processing unit. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements such as during start up is typically stored in ROM. RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit. The data or program modules may include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data. The operating system may be or include a variety of operating systems such as Microsoft Windows operating system the Unix operating system the Linux operating system the Xenix operating system the IBM AIX operating system the Hewlett Packard UX operating system the Novell Netware operating system the Sun Microsystems Solaris operating system the OS 2 operating system the BeOS operating system the Macintosh operating system the Apache operating system an OpenStep operating system or another operating system or platform.

At a minimum the memory includes at least one set of instructions that is either permanently or temporarily stored. The processor executes the instructions that are stored in order to process data. The set of instructions may include various instructions that perform a particular task or tasks such as those shown in the appended flowcharts. Such a set of instructions for performing a particular task may be characterized as a program software program software engine module component mechanism unit or tool. Embodiments of the instant disclosure may include a plurality of software processing modules stored in a memory as described above and executed on a processor in the manner described herein. The program modules may be in the form of any suitable programming language which is converted to machine language or object code to allow the processor or processors to read the instructions. That is written lines of programming code or source code in a particular programming language may be converted to machine language using a compiler assembler or interpreter. The machine language may be binary coded machine instructions specific to a particular computer.

Any suitable programming language may be used in accordance with the various embodiments of the disclosure. Illustratively the programming language used may include assembly language Ada APL Basic C C COBOL dBase Forth FORTRAN Java Modula 2 Pascal Prolog REXX Visual Basic and or JavaScript for example. Further it is not necessary that a single type of instruction or programming language be utilized in conjunction with the operation of the system and method of the instant disclosure. Rather any number of different programming languages may be utilized as is necessary or desirable.

Also the instructions and or data used in the practice of embodiments of the disclosure may utilize any compression or encryption technique or algorithm as may be desired. An encryption module might be used to encrypt data. Further files or other data may be decrypted using a suitable decryption module.

The computing environment may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example a hard disk drive may read or write to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. A magnetic disk drive may read from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive may read from or write to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The storage media are typically connected to the system bus through a removable or non removable memory interface.

The processing unit that executes commands and instructions may be a general purpose computer but may utilize any of a wide variety of other technologies including a special purpose computer a microcomputer mini computer mainframe computer programmed microprocessor micro controller peripheral integrated circuit element a CSIC Customer Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit a logic circuit a digital signal processor a programmable logic device such as an FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array PLD Programmable Logic Device PLA Programmable Logic Array RFID integrated circuits smart chip or any other device or arrangement of devices that is capable of implementing the steps or the processes of the instant disclosure.

It should be appreciated that the processors and or memories of the computer system need not be physically in the same location. Each of the processors and each of the memories used by the computer system may be in geographically distinct locations and be connected so as to communicate with each other in any suitable manner. Additionally it is appreciated that each of the processor and or memory may be composed of different physical pieces of equipment.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through a local or remote user interface that includes input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner voice recognition device touch screen toggle switch pushbutton or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

One or more monitors or display devices may also be connected to the system bus via an interface. In addition to display devices computers may also include other peripheral output devices which may be connected through an output peripheral interface. The computers implementing the embodiments of the instant disclosure may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers the remote computers typically including many or all of the elements described above.

Various networks may be implemented in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure including a wired or wireless local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN wireless personal area network PAN and other types of networks. When used in a LAN networking environment computers may be connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment computers typically include a modem or other communication mechanism. Modems may be internal or external and may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. Computers may be connected over the Internet an Intranet Extranet Ethernet or any other system that provides communications. Some suitable communications protocols may include TCP IP UDP or OSI for example. For wireless communications communications protocols may include Bluetooth Zigbee IrDa or other suitable protocol. Furthermore components of the system may communicate through a combination of wired or wireless paths.

Although many other internal components of the computer are not shown those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that such components and the interconnections are well known. Accordingly additional details concerning the internal construction of the computer need not be disclosed in connection with the instant disclosure.

More specific embodiments of the present disclosure in the nature of business intelligence methods and computer program products are now described for the purpose of providing users with detailed information concerning their available business data to enable informed decisions about how to manage and conduct business. With reference to the figures in which like reference numerals represent like items throughout the views various embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail.

As shown in business intelligence system utilizes an application service provider architecture in which one or more aspects of the business intelligence system reside within or are otherwise in communication with at least one server. Users access the business intelligence system from any of a plurality of client instrumentalities and remote from the business intelligence system . Each client instrumentality and can comprise software hardware or a combination of both. In some embodiments these users may be located at general purpose computers or other networked devices such as cell phones network appliances music players or any other device appreciated by those of ordinary skill that may connect to a network. In some aspects and embodiments of the disclosure users may connect to a network through individual sub networks or local networks or through a plurality of sub networks or local networks. In some instances multiple users may be located on one of these sub networks or local networks. For example a client device may be a computing device and a client device may be a process or application running on a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet computer.

Business intelligence system comprises at least one information store such as information storage an integration unit an analytics unit and in some embodiments a collaboration unit . Generally information storage holds information populated by integration unit which may come from a wide variety of data sources such as from structured data source and unstructured data source . These data sources may be external or internal to the application service provider of the business intelligence system . While information gathered from the variety of data sources may comprise various formats types and structures information resident in information storage is managed in a common data structure. Accordingly data across information storage can be compared and analyzed in business intelligence system efficiently.

Each of these components of business intelligence system can comprise hardware software or a combination of both. Although these components may be described herein as being distinct units this distinction is provided for illustrative purposes only and should not be deemed to limit the various embodiments of the disclosure. Rather these components may be combined for dual use applications or be overlapping or divided in other ways.

The overall architecture of business intelligence system as shown in is that of an application service provider architecture. Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate provision of data collection storage analysis and collaboration to occur at a host site operated by the application service provider. In some aspects of the instant disclosure the ownership or operation of the component parts of the business intelligence system may be managed by a single entity while other embodiments contemplate the system being separated or segmented between multiple entities. The application service provider model may apply to multiple combinations and permutations of computational connections between the devices modules units and other components discussed herein such that one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate the various capable embodiments.

In many embodiments the application service provider model presents a unified system of operation to a user located at a client instrumentality such as client instrumentality . The application service provider model allows the user to connect to the business intelligence system through any known or yet unknown network or data linkage creating a two way communication between client instrumentality and business intelligence system . The connection allows the user to receive or display a user interface from the business intelligence system without the need for the user to own any additional systems or hardware. An advantage to this model is that users of the business intelligence system do not have any start up costs related to the acquisition or management of hardware or software. An additional advantage of the application service provider model is that all users may simultaneously have new features of the service upgraded across all accounts. Further as will be discussed in greater detail herein the storage of all users data in one central location allows for the analysis of the cross relevance of user data across organizations and markets to create supplemental business intelligence information.

Returning to business intelligence system may comprise a database or other form of data warehousing apparatus. Aspects of the disclosure also contemplate a business intelligence system wherein an external database is used such as a database provided and maintained by a third party and in communication with the business intelligence system. Although the singular form database is used throughout this disclosure it will be understood that one or multiple databases may be used. For example and not limitation a common data model may be stored in one database user data may be stored in another database data mining models and analytics may be stored in yet another database and additional metadata created during the implementation and use of embodiments of the disclosure may be contained in still yet another database.

Moreover the business intelligence system is adapted to analyze process and leverage big data. As known in the art big data is a collection of data sets so large and complex that it becomes difficult to process using conventional on hand database management tools or traditional data processing applications. The business intelligence system of is adapted to manage big data according to the following discussion.

Embodiments of the disclosure contemplate that information storage may comprise one or multiple databases or other form of data store. Regardless information storage holds datasets for each of the users of business intelligence system . In the illustrated embodiment information storage holds dataset and dataset for two different users of the system located at client and client respectively. Aspects of the disclosure contemplate a dataset further belonging to an organization made up of a multiplicity of users wherein the users may share the entire dataset or segment access to an organizational dataset according to a series of organizational data access rules as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. Each of the datasets represents a variety of external data sources to which a user or organization has access and has directed to be collected by the business intelligence system . The datasets are organized according to a common data structure upon entry into information storage such that disparate data types such as various forms of structured and unstructured data may be analyzed and compared against a common series of operators and analysis.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may involve an additional attribute data model to which information in each dataset is based. The attribute data model may exist in the at least one database of the present disclosure or it may exist external to the database or datasets. In such an aspect of the disclosure the attribute data model will inform the manner and mechanism by which the datasets are created by showing the relationship between dataset elements.

As shown in alternate embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate the partitioning of a database such that an additional publicly available dataset may be retained by the database. Publicly available dataset may exist in addition and in supplementation to individual datasets for each of the various users or organizations of the business intelligence system according to the present disclosure. The publicly available dataset may include information available or applicable to all users of a business intelligence system. For example dataset may include market reports regional or national news weather forecasts stock market information political information census data and the like. As will be understood by one of skill in the art more than one publicly available dataset may be contained in a single database . If more than one publicly available dataset is available the datasets may be segmented by market region age or any other parameter. In some embodiments of the disclosure certain publicly available datasets may be available to a greater amount of users of the business intelligence system than other publicly available datasets. In still other embodiments a user or organization s level of subscription or engagement with the business intelligence system may determine which publicly available information is available to the user or organization.

In the exemplary embodiment of the disclosure database is comprised of information from a variety of information sources such as but not limited to electronic mail services website analytics services sales and marketing information systems social networks logistics management systems and market reporting services. These different services may provide application programming interfaces APIs allowing the provision of a data connection between these services and an integration unit . In other instances the application service provider of the business intelligence system may have a business relationship with the external information service provider such that data may be provided to the business intelligence system on a custom or exclusive basis. For example a market research firm may be engaged to provide market reports and analysis to the business intelligence system on a constant or regular basis. As previously described when referring to the integration unit connects these disparate sources of data to the business intelligence system of the present disclosure.

As described herein integration unit is configured and programmed to interface with a wide variety of services. When in communication with an external data service for example the website analytics service integration unit loads a set of data interpretation rules applicable to the particular website analytics service provider. The set of data interpretation rules instruct the integration unit on the proper manner to translate the data feed received from the external data service into an appropriate set of data to be incorporated into database . In the example of retrieving information from website analytics service the integration unit would be configured to receive information regarding the historical statistics of website visitors and visitor behaviour over a set period of time. Following the example the integration unit would then translate the website history data into a format compatible with the dataset of the business intelligence system. The integration unit may also be configured to know which user or organization s dataset is to receive the new or updated information from the external data service. In still further embodiments of the disclosure it is contemplated that each imported set of external data may be stored in an agnostic fashion such that it can be repurposed in a database of a business intelligence system over time as organizations and users merge and divide as in the ordinary course of commerce.

It should be noted that the integration unit may be presented with a situation in which the incoming data stream is unstructured such that it does not contain any metadata identifying the content type or format of the data contained in said stream. In these situations embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate the use of smart logic to parse the data stream and determine the component data types and structures embodied therein such that the unstructured data may be translated into an appropriate actionable set of data to be retained in the appropriate dataset in database .

In still other aspects of the disclosure integration unit may be presented with two or more external sources which may supplement one another. In this instance the integration unit may be configured to aggregate or combine the multiple external data sources into a single data feed which can then be translated into an appropriate actionable set of data. This aspect of the disclosure may be especially useful when individual external data sources may not provide enough information alone to be of use in the business intelligence system of the present disclosure.

Returning to multiple users may access the business intelligence system via the use of client instrumentalities. In the exemplary embodiment instrumentalities and are more conventionally known as clients. As described more fully above clients may be computers software on computers such as a web browser smart phones tablets and the like. In one of the preferred embodiments of the disclosure the client may be a web browser. Client may be in communication with business intelligence system through an interface provided by analytics unit . In other aspects of the disclosure the interface may be an additional or separate component of the business intelligence system situated between client and analytics unit . Still other embodiments contemplate other configurations.

Upon receipt of the user interface at client a user may interact with the business intelligence system in order to get insight into any imaginable aspect of the user s organization business or overall market. Business intelligence system provides such insight to the user through the operation of analytics unit . In various embodiments of the disclosure analytics unit may identify the specific user or organization represented by the user at client . Once identified the analytics unit may access the user or organization s dataset to perform analysis requested by the user. In certain embodiments of the disclosure if public datasets are available to the user the analytics unit may combine the dataset with any other available datasets.

According to aspects of the disclosure analytics unit is configured to apply any of a series of transformations or analysis on a user s dataset. Accordingly all of the users of the business intelligence system of the present disclosure are benefited by single point improvements to the functioning of aspects of the analytics unit. Furthermore as the analytics unit completes its transformations or analysis on the dataset of the specific user accessing the system the results of each individual analysis or transformation of data will be different as the dataset underlying such an analysis will differ from user to user or organization to organization. Some of the analysis contemplated by various aspects of the embodiments of the disclosure include but are not limited to business performance such as sales figures marketing campaign effectiveness polling numbers or portfolio performance goodwill measurement such as when conducting a social media analysis comparisons to others in the same or differing markets and the like.

Since all of the data in user s dataset is of a commonly defined structure the analytics unit is ambivalent as to the original source of the data. However other embodiments of the disclosure contemplate the datasets or database retaining information identifying the origin of various external data points in order for the analytics unit or some other component of the business intelligence system to identify the origin of information used in any such analysis. This may be beneficial to a user so that the user may filter out certain external data sources from desired analysis or so that the user or the business intelligence system itself may weight external data sources according to preference or historical performance of said data.

In certain embodiments of the present disclosure each individual non public dataset is accorded privacy levels at the control of the user or organization to which the dataset belongs. Accordingly a user may have the option to allow neighbours to access the user s dataset. A user may do this in exchange for access to a corresponding dataset or for other reasons as may be contemplated by those of skill in the art. In certain aspects of the disclosure a user may be able to access datasets of all other users which have also enabled sharing of datasets. The increasing availability of additional datasets with additional knowledge beyond that of any one individual s data may provide an enticing incentive for the sharing of data across the system.

Various embodiments of the business information system contemplate different methods of utilizing neighbour datasets during the processing of analytics unit . In certain aspects of the disclosure neighbour data may be combined with the same level of relevance or weighting as the user s data. Other aspects contemplate the relative weighting or other influence of neighbour data based on factors such as but not limited to historical predictability market relativity correlation and the like. For example a user accessing business intelligence system through client may be the owner of dataset and have access to neighbour dataset . Collaboration unit may aggregate datasets and into a superset which it passes on to analytics unit for analysis as described above. Other embodiments of the disclosure may contemplate the collaboration unit being a part of the analytics unit or a collaboration unit working independently of the analytics unit in order to process data and present actionable analysis to a user. Those of skill in the art will recognize that more than two datasets may be combined to create a superset and that a multiplicity of neighbour datasets as well as publicly available datasets may be combined to form a superset as described herein and as contemplated by the many embodiments of the disclosure.

In certain situations combined datasets may not relate to the same type of underlying entity. Data mining engine compensates for the varying forms and relevancy of neighbour datasets by conducting a cross market relevancy analysis on combinations of data in the business intelligence system. In the exemplary embodiment of data mining engine is a component of collaboration unit . Other embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate the data mining engine residing as a component of analytics unit or as residing as a separate component in the system. Data mining engine may operate in real time or may act as a background process wherein it may analyze incoming data to determine cross market relevancy such that those calculations and analysis may be available at runtime of a specific query. Cross market relevancy as well as other relevancy analysis across types of foreign data may be determined by an evaluation of the correlation of components of neighbour datasets. For example decreasing performance or negative performance in a dataset concerning financial services may be indicia of reduced spending on luxury goods in upcoming months.

Referring now to another embodiment of the business intelligence system is shown. In the embodiment shown in the business intelligence system is referred to as a multi tenant analytics system . The multi tenant analytics system includes Universal Data Model UDM formatting logic an integration unit information storage a back end analytics unit an analytical application unit and an analytics user interface .

In operation the UDM modeling logic and the integration unit of the multi tenant analytics system are configured to obtain raw data from one or more disparate data sources such as data source and data source N . As used herein raw data includes data that i is not optimized for analytical processing and ii does not conform to the UDM construct described herein. As used herein obtaining may include i receiving the raw data that is pushed to the multi tenant analytics system by the data sources ii pulling or retrieving the raw data from the data sources by the multi tenant analytics system or iii some combination of receiving pushed raw data from at least one data source e.g. data source and pulling raw data from at least one data source e.g. data source N .

Furthermore each respective data source may provide data from a different entity or from different units within a single entity. For example data source may provide data from a first entity e.g. Company A while data source N may provide data from a second different entity e.g. Company B . In another example data source may provide data from a first unit of a particular entity e.g. the marketing unit of Company A while data source N may provide data from a second different unit of the same entity e.g. the accounting unit of Company A . The number of actual data sources connected to the system is the number of tenants in the multi tenant analytics system . Further still while only two data sources are shown those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the raw data may be obtained from any suitable number of different data sources as desired.

Additionally the raw data may include i different types of data having different data values and ii different types of data having different data structures including structured or unstructured as discussed above . For example the raw data that is obtained from data source may have a particular structure X while the raw data that is obtained from data source N may have a different data structure Y. The UDM modeling logic is configured to generate a particular UDM construct based upon the raw data and or one or more intended applications of the multi tenant analytics system . For example in one embodiment the UDM modeling logic is configured to generate a specific UDM construct i.e. a particular structure architecture that incoming data should be conformed to based upon the different data structures represented in the incoming raw data . In this manner the UDM modeling logic may generate different types of UDM constructs based upon the different structures of data included as part of the raw data and or based upon particular applications of the multi tenant analytics system .

The integration unit performs extraction transformation e.g. cleansing reformatting standardization aggregation disaggregation application of business rules data validation etc. and load ETL processing collectively integration on the raw data based on the UDM construct generated by the UDM modeling logic . Stated another way the integration unit is operative to process the incoming raw data in such a manner that the raw data is conformed to the UDM construct generated by the UDM modeling logic . Techniques for performing ETL processing are well known to those having ordinary skill in the art. In addition the integration unit is further operative to perform the functionality described with regard to the integration unit discussed above with regard to . Upon performing ETL processing on the raw data and conforming the raw data to the UDM construct the integration unit is configured to generate UDM transformed data which may be loaded into an information storage unit .

Information storage unit may be implemented in accordance with the discussion of information storage described above. Importantly the information storage includes the UDM construct and the UDM transformed data . In one embodiment the information storage is configured to further process the UDM transformed data to provide pre processed UDM transformed data . For example the information storage may include logic operative to perform operations such as query optimization compression request parallelization multi level data clustering and partitioning indexing sorting aggregating etc. on the UDM transformed data so as to generate the pre processed UDM transformed data .

The back end analytics unit is configured to obtain the pre processed UDM transformed data from the information storage for further analytical processing. In particular the back end analytics unit is operative to perform computations related to analytical multi dimensional processing data mining and advanced and predictive analysis processing. For example the back end analytics unit is configured to enable a user e.g. client s to obtain answers to questions on a UDM construct e.g. where the data corresponding to the UDM construct is stored in a relational database object oriented database etc. . A user s queries are answered fast enough to allow interactive exploration of data. Thus the back end analytics unit provides scalability both in terms of the number of users as well as the amount of data in the database such that a large number of users and a large quantity of data may be efficiently supported.

More specifically the back end analytics unit is configured to process the pre processed UDM transformed data in a variety of ways in order to generate back end analytics data . For example the back end analytics unit may include sub components sub routines configured to perform the following functions on the input data query generation and optimization computation calculation algorithms aggregation securitization in memory management and processing predictive modeling caching data connecting data clustering alert generation etc.

The analytical application unit is configured to analyze and process the back end analytics data in order to generate multi tenant analytics data . For example the analytical application unit may process the back end analytics data in order to create save and view analytical applications including analysis reports and decision support processes and flows. More specifically the analytical application unit may include sub components sub routines configured to perform the following functions on the back end analytics data filtering sorting drill down functionality drill through functionality defining settings pivoting data slicing providing templates charting formatting exporting prompting date picking grid generation analysis and report creation decision support flow and or searching capabilities. In one example the analytical application unit is operative to transform the back end analytics data from a state that is not meaningfully perceptible to humans e.g. numeric data without any clear visual organization into a state that is far more perceptible and recognizable to humans e.g. by organizing and or transforming the back end analytics data into a report or the like . In this manner the analytical application unit is configured to generate multi tenant analytics data . In one example the multi tenant analytics data is generated in response to client requests provided to the analytical application unit via the analytics user interface discussed below . Importantly in one embodiment of the system illustrated in the multi tenant analytics data is based on UDM transformed data associated with at least two different data sources e.g. different entities different units within the same entity etc. . In this manner the multi tenant analytics data that is generated by the analytical application unit takes into account data from at least two disparate data sources.

The analytics user interface allows client s to obtain e.g. view the generated multi tenant analytics data and issue client requests to the multi tenant analytics system . In one example the analytics user interface includes a graphical user interface such as a web page or the like allowing client s to interact with the multi tenant analytics system from remote locations for example over one or more suitable networks such as one or more of the networks described above. The analytics user interface may include tools i.e. sub components sub routines widgets etc. that provide for filtering sorting formatting charting date picking and or grid generation.

Referring now to one example of the raw data described above is illustrated. The exemplary raw data shown in has not undergone integration processing e.g. the processing performed by the integration unit described above and does not conform to the UDM construct .

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating a method of generating multi tenant analytics data according to one embodiment of the disclosure is provided. The processing described in may be implemented by one or more of the computing systems and or processing units possibly networked described herein although those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other functionally equivalent techniques may also be employed. Furthermore as known in the art some or all of the functionalities implemented via executable instructions may also be implemented using firmware and or hardware devices such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic arrays state machines etc. Once again those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the wide number of variations that may be used in this manner.

Beginning at step raw data is obtained from a plurality of data sources. At step a UDM construct is generated based at least in part on the raw data. At step the raw data is integrated from the plurality of different data sources based on the UDM construct to generate provide UDM transformed data. Finally at step multi tenant analytics data is generated. The multi tenant analytics data may be generated based on the UDM transformed data. In addition the UDM transformed data may comprise data associated with at least two different data sources of the plurality of different data sources.

The foregoing features of the present disclosure can be more clearly appreciated in the context of this example reflecting the data needs of two distinct entities i FlowerCo and ii Buyerville.com. In this example a marketing analyst at FlowerCo will login to the system and query the database for an optimized sale date based on its user profile on current data in the warehouse. The result is a proposed sale data of February 15 one day after St. Valentine s Day.

Buyersville.com a general purpose retailer having an online different user profile accesses the data in warehouse and receives Dec. 27 2011 as the optimized sale date for its profile notwithstanding applications of the same data.

CreditCo.com wants to analyze how a competitors interest rate changes affect the likelihood of their customers switching over to one of their credit cards. The user would log into the knowledge network and buy data that would allow this analysis to be run. This would allow them to see which competing customers have changed their rates in the past and get a probability on customers that changed from one company to theirs in the past what kind of customers those where and what messages have worked in the past. The customer would also see the available message options and probabilities of their success.

Manufacturer groups data with a group of friendly insurance companies to determine pricing elasticity for their products. Manufacturer would group data with the insurance companies to better price products that have high insurance rates. An insurance company user of the knowledge network would log in to see how new rate quotes on their products and competitors are affecting buyers desire to purchase their products. By using this data the system can recommend the optimal pricing adjustments to increase revenue or other key metrics.

MedicalCo wants to analyze where a customer is likely to go to a doctor with regards to medical conditions that are solved by a specific procedure like obesity. The MedicalCo wants to compare doctors who know their particular procedure and use their devices to population sets from census data to help focus training and sales on areas of highest success. The Medical analyst can log in to see visualizations of the overlaps and places where they should dispatch sales people. This data can populate CRM systems via an API automatically.

AutoCo.com wants to better understand how gas prices model types and color preferences on new model cars are affecting their sales. This might allow the company to better manage logistics and recommendations to dealers on what color and model cars to buy based on changing factors. AutoCo.com might want to make recommendations on their web site drawn automatically from the knowledge network when the dealer logs into their order systems.

Having described a number of different embodiments of the disclosure it should be apparent to the person of ordinary skill that the disclosure has numerous benefits and advantages. For example a knowledge network may be provided that allows users and organizations to tap into complex business analytics on disparate sources of data at a low cost.

Further the ability to combine datasets amongst users and organizations enables a platform of multi tenant knowledge network which actually gets smarter and more robust as it grows and gains additional stakeholders.

Because the systems and methods of the present disclosure allow for the robust segmentation provision and sharing of data across users the present disclosure presents a new paradigm for business intelligence services that eliminates previous limits previously thought omnipresent. While much of the foregoing discussion has concentrated on applying the business intelligence system and or multi tenant analytics system to marketing applications those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the features described herein may be equally applied to any business or function or even to non business applications.

Other benefits and advantages of the systems and methods described herein will be apparent to the person of ordinary skill in the art.

Other embodiments and uses of the systems and methods described herein will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the systems and methods disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the disclosure.

