---

title: Method for communicating data between an NFC-enabled device on a vehicle and a driver indentification device
abstract: A method for communicating data between a vehicle and a mobile computing device includes locating at least one NFC-enabled device on the vehicle. Vehicle user data is wirelessly transferred between the NFC-enabled device and the mobile computing device. Using the vehicle user data, the NFC-enabled device on the vehicle and the mobile computing device are paired.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604508&OS=09604508&RS=09604508
owner: iTIRE, LLC
number: 09604508
owner_city: Rock Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151209
---
This invention relates broadly and generally to method for communicating data between an NFC enabled device on a vehicle and a mobile computing device.

Various exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described below. Use of the term exemplary means illustrative or by way of example only and any reference herein to the invention is not intended to restrict or limit the invention to exact features or steps of any one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed in the present specification. References to exemplary embodiment one embodiment an embodiment various embodiments and the like may indicate that the embodiment s of the invention so described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular feature structure or characteristic. Further repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment or in an exemplary embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although they may.

It is also noted that terms like preferably commonly and typically are not utilized herein to limit the scope of the claimed invention or to imply that certain features are critical essential or even important to the structure or function of the claimed invention. Rather these terms are merely intended to highlight alternative or additional features that may or may not be utilized in a particular embodiment of the present invention.

According to one exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises a smart tag assembly designed for mounting on an object to be tracked e.g. identified inspected documented or the like . The smart tag assembly comprises a multiple layer RFID laminate adapted for electronically storing and processing data and wireless communicating data when interrogated by an RFID reader. The laminate comprises an RFID inlay including a microchip and antenna e.g. aluminum copper or silver formed with a substrate and laminated between an outside label cover and backing. A low profile tag carrier defines a recessed pocket designed for receiving and holding the RFID laminate and has a generally concave outside surface adapted for residing against a generally convex surface of the object to be tracked.

According to another exemplary embodiment the tag carrier is constructed of a generally flexible elastomeric material.

According to another exemplary embodiment the natural rubber has a hardness of between about 50 80 durometer.

According to another exemplary embodiment the tag carrier comprises an inwardly extending peripheral lip surrounding the recessed pocket and adapted for retaining and protecting the RFID laminate.

According to another exemplary embodiment the peripheral lip comprises a plurality of equally spaced arcuate sections defining respective chamfered top edges.

According to another exemplary embodiment the tag carrier comprises a continuous rounded outside peripheral edge.

According to another exemplary embodiment the tag carrier has a height dimension less than 0.25 inches and an outside diameter less than 2.0 inches.

According to another exemplary embodiment a bottom surface of the tag carrier is textured to a depth ranging from about 0.00100 and 0.00600.

According to another exemplary embodiment an inside surface of the recessed pocket is textured to a depth ranging from about 0.00100 and 0.00600.

According to another exemplary embodiment an exposed surface of the label cover comprises at least one part identification code.

According to another exemplary embodiment a spacer is attached to a bottom surface of the tag carrier and adapted for spacing the RFID laminate from the object.

According to another exemplary embodiment the RFID laminate further comprises at least one spacer ring surrounding the RFID inlay and substrate and laminated between the outside label cover and backing.

In another exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises a pneumatic vehicle tire in combination with a smart tag assembly affixed to the vehicle tire. The smart tag assembly is constructed as described in the exemplary embodiments discussed further herein.

According to another exemplary embodiment indicia e.g. a visual marking is located on an exposed surface of said label cover and applicable for orienting said smart tag assembly relative to a center of the wheel hub.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises a metal vehicle part in combination with a smart tag assembly affixed to the vehicle part. The smart tag assembly is constructed as described in the exemplary embodiments discussed further herein. In addition a spacer is attached to a bottom surface of the tag carrier in order to space the RFID laminate from the metal vehicle part.

According to another exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises a direct tire data collection and communication device adapted for use in a pneumatic vehicle tire. The device comprises a tire mounted electronics module comprising a microcontroller and at least one tire property sensor in electronic communication with the microcontroller and capable of measuring at least one operational property of the vehicle tire. Means including program instructions executed by the processor of the microcontroller compare the measured operational tire property to a predetermined threshold value. The threshold value defines a positive tire safety condition and a negative tire safety condition. For example if the threshold value is 200 degrees F. for high tire temperature then measurements above this value might indicate a negative tire safety condition while measurements below this threshold value might indicate a positive tire safety condition. Similarly if the threshold value is 60 psi for low tire pressure then measurements below this threshold value might indicate a negative tire safety condition while measurements above this threshold value might indicate a positive tire safety condition. Means including program instructions executed by the processor of the microcontroller calculates accumulated travel data of the vehicle tire while in the negative tire safety condition. A transmitter transmits the travel data to an electronic remote terminal.

According to another exemplary embodiment the at least one operational tire property is selected from a group consisting of tire temperature tire pressure and rotational movement.

According to another exemplary embodiment the tire mounted electronics module comprises non volatile memory for electronically storing the operational tire property.

According to another exemplary embodiment means are provided for attaching the tire mounted electronics module to an inside of the vehicle tire.

According to another exemplary embodiment the means for attaching comprises an assembly bolt designed to mount the electronics module to a proximal end of a tire valve stem. The assembly bolt defines a longitudinal through bore enabling fluid communication of the valve stem and an interior chamber of the vehicle tire.

According to another exemplary embodiment a battery is provided for supplying an operational voltage to the tire mounted electronics module.

According to another exemplary embodiment means are provided for receiving a wireless wake up signal to selectively activate the battery and thereby supply the operational voltage to the tire mounted electronics module.

According to another exemplary embodiment the electronics module comprises a plurality of integrated sensors selected from a group consisting of pressure sensor temperature sensor acceleration sensor and battery voltage sensor.

According to another exemplary embodiment a unique module identifier is transmitted at each transmission of the travel data to the remote terminal.

According to another exemplary embodiment the electronics module comprises means for periodically measuring temperature and pressure within an interior chamber of the vehicle tire during rotational movement of the vehicle tire.

According to another exemplary embodiment means are provided for determining a minimum pressure value in the vehicle tire occurring from a previous static measurement to a present static measurement.

According to another exemplary embodiment means are provided for determining a maximum temperature value in the vehicle tire occurring from a previous static measurement to a present static measurement.

According to another exemplary embodiment the device further comprises means for periodically measuring tire pressure within an interior chamber of the vehicle tire at predetermined intervals during rotational movement of the vehicle tire non volatile memory for electronically storing the measured tire pressure means for comparing the stored tire pressure to subsequent tire pressure measurements to determine a lowest measured tire pressure value and means for wirelessly transmitting the lowest measured tire pressure value to the remote terminal.

According to another exemplary embodiment the device further comprises means for periodically measuring temperature within an interior chamber of the vehicle tire at predetermined intervals during rotational movement of the vehicle tire non volatile memory for electronically storing the measured tire temperature means for comparing the stored tire temperature to subsequent tire temperature measurements to determine a highest measured tire temperature value and means for wirelessly transmitting the highest measured tire temperature value to the remote terminal.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises a multi purpose multi functional handheld data collection and communication tool. The tool comprises a tool housing. A receiver is located within the housing and is adapted for receiving tire data transmitted wirelessly by a tire pressure monitoring system TPMS of a pneumatic vehicle tire.

An air chuck is designed for operatively engaging and opening a self contained valve in fluid communication with an interior chamber of the vehicle tire. Means are provided for measuring an operational tire property upon physical application of the air chuck to the self contained valve of the vehicle tire. The operational tire property is selected from a group consisting of tire pressure and temperature.

According to another exemplary embodiment a transmitter is located within the tool housing and capable of wirelessly transmitting the tire data to a remote terminal.

According to another exemplary embodiment the RFID transceiver comprises two way near field communication NFC technology.

According to another exemplary embodiment non volatile memory is provided for electronically storing the tire data.

The term remote terminal refers broadly herein to any Mobile Device as described below network server cloud storage desktop laptop computer netbook e reader tablet computer mobile phone personal digital assistant or other fixed or mobile electronic data processing collection transmission and or storage device programmable or non programmable which is physically unattached to the exemplary ITD and or vehicle tire within which the ITD is located while the vehicle is in motion.

The term tire refers broadly to a pneumatic tire fabricated e.g. of synthetic rubber natural rubber fabric and wire along with carbon black and other chemical compounds. The tire consists of a tread and a body. The tread provides traction while the body provides containment for a quantity of compressed air.

The mobile computing device or Mobile Device may incorporate or comprise any general or specific purpose machine with processing logic capable of manipulating data according to a set of program instructions. Examples of Mobile Devices include a laptop computer netbook e reader tablet computer mobile phone personal digital assistant desktop and others. In one exemplary embodiment the Mobile Device comprises a smartphone or other high end mobile phone using an operating system such as Google s Android Apple s iOS4 and iOS5 Maemo Bada Symbian Windows Phone Palm Blackberry and others. The exemplary Mobile Device may include a high resolution touchscreen display screen a web browser high speed data access via Wi Fi and mobile broadband and advanced application programming interfaces APIs for running third party applications. The Mobile Device may also be equipped with NFC and paired with NFC tags or stickers which can be programmed by NFC apps and other mobile apps on the device. For example BlackBerry devices support NFC using BlackBerry Tag on a number of devices running BlackBerry OS 7.0 and greater. Microsoft has also added native NFC functionality in its mobile OS with Windows Phone 8 as well as the Windows 8 operating system. Other handheld mobile devices without built in NFC chips may utilize MicroSD and UICC SIM cards incorporating industry standard contactless smartcard chips with ISO14443 interface with or without built in antenna.

The exemplary computing device may also include card slots for removable or non removable flash and SIM cards and may have up to 32 GB of non volatile internal memory. One or more of the flash and SIM cards and internal memory may comprise computer readable storage media containing program instructions applicable for effecting the present system and method for vehicle tire and parts management. As generally known and understood in the art the flash card is an electronic flash memory data storage device used for storing digital information. The card is small re recordable and able to retain data without power. For example Secure Digital SD is a non volatile memory card format developed by the SD Card Association for use in portable devices. SD has an official maximum capacity of 2 GB though some are available up to 4 GB.

The SIM card contains an integrated circuit that securely stores the service subscriber key IMSI used to identify a subscriber on the Mobile Device. SIM hardware typically consists of a microprocessor ROM persistent non volatile EEPROM or flash memory volatile RAM and a serial I O interface. SIM software typically consists of an operating system file system and application programs. The SIM may incorporate the use of a SIM Toolkit STK which is an application programming interface API for securely loading applications e.g. applets or data to the SIM for storage in the SIM and execution by the Mobile Device. The STK allows a mobile operator such as a wireless carrier to create provision services by loading them into the SIM without changing other elements of the Mobile Device. One convenient way for loading applications to the SIM is over the air OTA via the Short Message Service SMS protocol.

Secure data or application storage in a memory card or other device may be provided by a Secure Element SE . The SE can be embedded in the logic circuitry of the Mobile Device e.g. smartphone can be installed in a SIM or can be incorporated in a removable SD card secure digital memory card among other possible implementations. Depending on the type of Secure Element SE that hosts an applet the features implemented by the applet may differ. Although an SE is typically Java Card compliant regardless of its form factor and usage it may implement features or functions included in the operating system and or in libraries that are specific to that type of SE. For example a UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card may implement features that are used for network communications such as text messaging and STK whereas in certain embedded SE devices these features may not be implemented.

Additionally to identify a user s Mobile Device a unique serial number called International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI may be assigned to the device. As known by persons skilled in the art IMEI is standardized by ETSI and 3GPP and mobile devices which do not follow these standards may not have an IMEI. The IMEI number is used by the network to identify valid mobile devices. IMEI identifies the device not the user the user is identified by an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI by a 15 digit number and includes information about the source of the mobile device the model and serial number. Other features of the exemplary Mobile Device may include front facing and rear facing cameras Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound video mirroring and video out support built in speaker and microphone built in 25 watt hour rechargeable lithium polymer battery and sensors including three axis gyro accelerometer and ambient light sensor.

The exemplary Mobile Device may also combine A GPS and other location services including Wi Fi Positioning System and cell site triangulation or hybrid positioning system. Mobile Phone Tracking tracks the current position of a mobile device even when it is moving. To locate the device it must emit at least the roaming signal to contact the next nearby antenna tower but the process does not require an active call. GSM localization is then done by multilateration based on the signal strength to nearby antenna masts. Mobile positioning which includes location based service that discloses the actual coordinates of a mobile device bearer is a technology used by telecommunication companies to approximate where a mobile device and thereby also its user bearer temporarily resides.

The present invention is described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which one or more exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown. Like numbers used herein refer to like elements throughout. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be operative enabling and complete. Accordingly the particular arrangements disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof. Moreover many embodiments such as adaptations variations modifications and equivalent arrangements will be implicitly disclosed by the embodiments described herein and fall within the scope of the present invention.

Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Unless otherwise expressly defined herein such terms are intended to be given their broad ordinary and customary meaning not inconsistent with that applicable in the relevant industry and without restriction to any specific embodiment hereinafter described. As used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one single or similar language is used. When used herein to join a list of items the term or denotes at least one of the items but does not exclude a plurality of items of the list.

For exemplary methods or processes of the invention the sequence and or arrangement of steps described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly it should be understood that although steps of various processes or methods may be shown and described as being in a sequence or temporal arrangement the steps of any such processes or methods are not limited to being carried out in any particular sequence or arrangement absent an indication otherwise. Indeed the steps in such processes or methods generally may be carried out in various different sequences and arrangements while still falling within the scope of the present invention.

Additionally any references to advantages benefits unexpected results or operability of the present invention are not intended as an affirmation that the invention has been previously reduced to practice or that any testing has been performed. Likewise unless stated otherwise use of verbs in the past tense present perfect or preterit is not intended to indicate or imply that the invention has been previously reduced to practice or that any testing has been performed.

Referring now specifically to the drawings the present disclosure comprises an exemplary system and method for communicating data e.g. tire data between a vehicle tire and a remote or unattached computing device. In various embodiments described below the system and method utilize one or both of the exemplary In Tire Data Collection and Communication Device or simply ITD and Multi Purpose Handheld Data Collection and Communication Tool or simply Hand Tool or Tool . These concepts of the present disclosure are discussed separately below.

Referring to the exemplary In Tire Data Collection and Communication Device ITD mounts to a metal wheel W of the vehicle and comprises an elongated clamp in metal valve stem with an integrated valve core in fluid communication with the interior chamber of a pneumatic tire T and a programmable in tire electronics module . The valve stem may function in a conventional manner as a self contained valve which opens to admit or release air or other gas to and from the sealed tire chamber and is then automatically closed and kept sealed by the pressure in the chamber or a spring or both to prevent the gas from escaping. The ITD electronics module is attached to a proximal end of the value stem inside the vehicle tire T and resides adjacent the rim bed of the wheel W The distal end of valve stem projects through a sealed opening in the wheel rim and may have a straight or bent configuration extending to a point outside the tire T adjacent the wheel center. An external retaining nut and rubber valve grommet not shown may be used to seal the valve stem against the wheel W at the stem opening. The valve stem may be situated in any suitable manner for convenient access when manually adjusting tire pressure and when checking pressure by hand using digital or mechanical gauges.

In one exemplary embodiment the ITD electronics module comprises separate battery and sensor compartments and . The battery and primary electronic components of the ITD are carried on a PCB assembly within these compartments respectively. The board of the PCB assembly defines a floor of the electronics module and is covered by integrally joined e.g. molded housing caps and . The joined housing caps are secured to the board by threaded screws S or other hardware.

As best shown in the ITD electronics module is removably attached to the valve stem using an elongated assembly bolt and locking e.g. Nord Lock washer . The assembly bolt has an enlarged head externally threaded shaft and a longitudinal through bore . The bolt inserts through a top side of a cup shaped stem connector integrally formed between the housing caps of the battery and sensor compartments . The threaded bolt shaft extends from the ITD electronics module through a semi spherical polymer e.g. ABS socket adapter and into a complementary threaded opening formed with the proximal end of the metal valve stem . The opening may be drilled and tapped in an otherwise conventional valve stem . The exemplary socket adapter sits within the cup shaped stem connector and has textured grit spherical surface and a radially serrated flat surface which engages the flat proximal end of the valve stem . The socket adapter enables proper sizing and slight shifting and flexing of the assembled components for thermal vibration and shock sensitivity. The longitudinal through bore of the threaded bolt defines an air passage enabling fluid communication between a sealed air chamber formed with the valve stem and interior of the pneumatic tire T .

The battery compartment of the electronics module comprises an annular interior wall formed with the circuit board assembly and defining a protected area for securely holding the replaceable or rechargeable snap in coin cell battery . The coin cell battery may comprise a lithium 3 volt battery. Under normal conditions the battery life may be 5 years or more. When assembled the cap of the battery compartment sits closely adjacent the board mounted compartment wall and is removably covered and sealed by a threaded top and O ring . The threaded top mates with a complementary internal thread formed with the cap of the battery compartment . Alternatively the threaded top may be ultrasonically welded to the battery compartment housing in order for re manufacturing or servicing the battery by certified personnel. The threaded top may also comprise an integrally hinged bolt retainer designed to pivot at hinge e.g. living hinge into a locking position over the enlarged head of the assembly bolt to safely hold the bolt in place during operation of the vehicle. Proper positioning of the bolt retainer also ensures sufficient torque applied to the threaded top of the battery compartment . A flexible flap integrally formed with the bolt retainer defines an opening for receiving a secondary locking clip attached to the ITD housing.

As indicated above the electronics of the ITD are mounted on the PCB assembly and located primarily within the sensor compartment defined by cap of the ITD electronics module . The PCB antenna may reside in a separately formed subcompartment of the cap and may not be potted directly on the board. In one embodiment the electronics module comprises a programmable high integrated Tire Pressure Monitoring System TPMS sensor shown in with a low power embedded programmable microcontroller and wireless FSK ASK RF transmitter with antenna. The RF transmitter can operate in either the 315 or 433 434 MHz frequency bands and can be configured for an output power of either 5 or 8 dBm. One example of a suitable TPMS sensor is that manufactured by Infineon Technologies AG and sold under the product designation SP37 Other examples of suitable TPMS s are described in Pending U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20110163737 entitled Tire Pressure Measurement System with Reduced Current Consumption . One or more TPMS sensors may be located in a single tire T and function to determine information concerning the interior air chamber of the tire. Block diagrams of the exemplary TPMS sensor are represented at .

In addition to the above the exemplary TPMS sensor contains a low frequency receiver with antenna operating at 125 kHz power supply management ND converter flash and ROM . Various functions of the LF receiver such as AGC filtering carrier detection and data recovery are included in the ITD as shown in .

Referring to the block diagrams at the exemplary TPMS in electronics module comprises integrated sensors and which function to measure vehicle tire data including pressure acceleration and temperature respectively . Voltage sensor measures supply battery voltage. To conserve battery power the ITD electronics module remains in a low power or sleep mode until awakened by a triggering event. In one implementation the triggering event is a threshold motion value determined by the acceleration sensor of the ITD electronics module . For example the electronics module may automatically activate upon a single revolution or multiple revolutions of the vehicle tire T . In another implementation the electronics module is awakened on demand by a low frequency LF signal e.g. 125 kHz wirelessly transmitted by a mobile handheld device such as the present Tire Data Collection and Communication Tool or simply Hand Tool described below and received by the LF receiver . The present ITD may function in combination with the exemplary Hand Tool and or the Mobile Device described above. Referring to the exemplary Mobile Device may comprise a smartphone tablet computer or other mobile device with integrated and or externally connected hardware such as transponders transverters repreaters transceivers transmitters receivers antennas and the like software firmware wireless technology including Wi Fi and Bluetooth and NFC and other RFID standards enabling wireless transmission and receipt of signals and data NFC tag reading rewriting at 125 kHz 13 MHz 315 MHz 433 434 MHz and other frequencies. Each of the above hardware firmware and software components and technologies may be integrated in a single module which may plug directly into the audio jack of the Mobile Device as shown in . Once activated the ITD electronics module periodically measures current temperature and pressure of the pneumatic tire T and stores maximum temperature and minimum pressure values in its integrated non volatile flash memory . Current e.g. realtime pressure readings may be automatically adjusted to account for temperature conditions inside the tire T . In an alternative embodiment not shown the ITD electronics module may be awakened using a portable magnet positioned by the user in close proximity to the ITD to activate a Reed switch or similar incorporated in the ITD electronics module. A second Reed switch or similar may also activate the ITD battery voltage sensor. For example in a low battery condition the exemplary Hand Tool described below may trigger a red LED while a sufficiently charged ITD battery may trigger a green LED.

In addition to the above the vehicle tire T may include one or more tread temperature sensors not shown embedded in a rubber layer of the tire such as described in prior U.S. Pat. No. 6 921 197 entitled Method and system for measuring temperature and monitoring vehicle tire operation and vehicle tire and method for introducing a temperature sensor into a vehicle tire. The complete disclosure of this prior patent is incorporated by reference in the present application. The exemplary tread embedded temperature sensor may comprise an active or passive transponder e.g. RFID or NFC tag with an integrated temperature sensing element. The transponder may periodically transmit tread temperature data to the to the ITD electronics module or may transmit on demand directly to the Mobile Device when reading the ITD electronics module . Other sensors in the vehicle tire may measure properties including tire flexing and lateral displacement. An acceleration sensor accelerometer may also function to determine proper balancing and or alignment of the tire wheel assembly and the need for balancing products e.g. active weight arm in the sensor or tire.

Basic exemplary processing logic for determining maximum tire temperature and minimum tire pressure may be represented as follows 

Additionally the programmable ITD microcontroller may calculate time and distance traveled by the vehicle tire T when above a predetermined threshold temperature and below a predetermined threshold pressure. For example for a 295 75r22.5 size 16 ply rating heavy duty pneumatic tire the threshold high temperature value may be 200 degrees F. and the threshold low tire pressure may be 60 psi. While the vehicle is in motion the ITD electronics module periodically measures temperature and pressure of the tire T . Measurement intervals may be in user defined seconds minutes or hours or may be determined by distance traveled. For example in one implementation tire pressure and temperature measurements are taken at each mile traveled by the vehicle. The measurement sampling period and other criteria may be pre programmed by the user in the ITD electronics module via Mobile Device prior to mounting to the vehicle wheel. If the temperature value exceeds the high temperature threshold then the ITD electronics module initiates a realtime clock RTC which adds the time in hours and or minutes during which the vehicle travels with the tire T in the pre determined high temperature condition. The electronics module also calculates an accumulated distance traveled by the tire T in miles and or feet while in the high temperature condition. The time and distance traveled while above the high temperature threshold may be accumulated respectively over the entire life of the tire T . These values may be permanently stored in the electronics module of the ITD .

Basic exemplary processing logic for calculating the high temperature time and distance values may be represented as follows 

Similarly if the tire pressure value drops below the low pressure threshold the ITD clock adds the time in hours and or minutes during which the vehicle travels actual motion with the tire in this low pressure condition. The ITD electronics module also calculates an accumulated distance traveled by the tire T in miles and or feet while in the low pressure condition. The time and distance traveled while below the low pressure threshold may be accumulated respectively over the entire life of the tire T . These values may be permanently stored in the electronics module of the ITD .

The basic processing logic for calculating the low pressure time and distance values may be represented as follows 

In addition to the tire data discussed above the exemplary ITD electronics module stores a unique identification number code or symbol and when awaked by the LF signal transmits this information via the module s RF transmitter e.g. at 433 434 mHz to the user s Mobile Device . The unique ID allows the ITD electronics module to ignore signal transmissions from unintended sources. As indicated above the LF signal may be transmitted wirelessly on demand by the user with any suitable Mobile Device located in close proximity to the vehicle tire T generally a distance less than 10 cm from the ITD for near field proximity coupling. Once awakened the ITD electronics module wirelessly transmits its unique ID the current battery voltage battery life the current tire pressure the current tire temperature and other tire data stored in the ITD non volatile memory including one or more of 

The tire data transmitted from the ITD electronics module is received by the user s Mobile Device e.g. via integrated or externally connected 433 434 MHz transceiver and may be further transmitted by the Mobile Device to other remote terminals such as the vehicle s telematics electronic onboard recorder vehicle checkpoint cloud storage corporate office or other location. The transmitted tire data may be date stamped at each reading and stored in the Mobile Device s non volatile internal memory or on removable flash and SIM cards. After each reading or each transmission of tire data by the ITD electronics module the maximum and minimum pressure values measured since the immediate prior transmission and the maximum temperature value measured since the immediate prior transmission are cleared from the ITD flash memory . The data may be cleared via LF signal transmitted by the Mobile Device by touching contacts on the ITD housing to a GPIO on the electronics module or by other known and suitable means. The accumulated time and distance values discussed above are permanently retained by the ITD and may be wirelessly written to RFID NFC tags affixed to the tire T . In this event if the vehicle tire T is recycled retreaded the affixed NFC tag may provide valuable information regarding the condition safety and history of the used tire.

The exemplary ITD described above is especially applicable for aluminum wheels W and may be designed to locate in the drop section of the wheel rim. Referring to in this embodiment the ITD electronics module comprises opposing integrally molded shoulders defining respective slots for receiving a stainless steel mounting band e.g. worn gear hose clamp adapted for extending 360 degrees around the wheel rim and securing the ITD to the vehicle wheel W . The mounting band passes through the slotted shoulders and through corresponding slots formed in a metal rim spring . The rim spring resides between the wheel W and ITD electronics module to accommodate thermal expansion contraction of the steel mounting band and the aluminum wheel W .

An alternative exemplary ITD is shown in . Like elements are indicated in prime notation . This ITD is particularly adapted for steel wheels and designed to mount flat on the wheel rim. Like the ITD described above this device comprises an elongated clamp in metal valve stem with an integrated valve core in fluid communication with an interior chamber of the pneumatic tire T and a programmable in tire electronics module . The electronics module is attached to a proximal end of the value stem inside the vehicle tire and resides adjacent the rim bed of the wheel. The distal end of valve stem projects through a sealed opening in the wheel rim and may have a straight or bent configuration extending to a point outside the tire adjacent the wheel center.

The ITD electronics module is removably attached to the valve stem using an elongated assembly bolt and comprises a programmable high integrated Tire Pressure Monitoring Sensor TPMS with a low power embedded microcontroller and wireless FSK ASK RF transmitter and antenna as previously described. The ITD electronics module operates in a manner identical to that described above. The assembly bolt has an enlarged head externally threaded shaft and a longitudinal through bore. The bolt inserts through a back side of a cup shaped stem connector integrally formed between the housing caps of the battery and sensor compartments . The threaded bolt shaft extends from the electronics module through a semi spherical polymer e.g. ABS socket adapter and into a complementary threaded opening formed with the proximal end of the metal valve stem . The battery compartment of the electronics module comprises an annular interior wall formed with the circuit board assembly and defining a protected area for securely holding the replaceable snap in coin cell battery . When assembled the cap of the battery compartment sits closely adjacent the board mounted compartment wall and is removably covered and sealed by a threaded top and O ring . The threaded top mates with a complementary internal thread formed with the cap of the battery compartment . The threaded top may also comprise an integrally hinged bolt retainer designed to pivot at hinge e.g. living hinge into a locking position over the enlarged head of the assembly bolt to safely hold the bolt in place during operation of the vehicle. A flexible flap integrally formed with the bolt retainer defines an opening for receiving a secondary locking clip attached to the ITD housing.

In addition to the Mobile Device discussed above the exemplary ITD may be activated and read using the present Handheld Tire Data Collection and Communication Tool or simply Hand Tool or Tool shown in . The Hand Tool Mobile Device and or ITD may incorporate an ultra low power wireless system on a chip with serial to WiFi embedded software for Wi Fi networks. The serial to WiFi embedded software allows these and other devices to add Wi Fi capabilities thereby supporting multiple devices simultaneously with data audio video and control. One commercial example of the exemplary system on a chip is that manufactured by GainSpan Corporation of Los Gatos Calif. and sold under the product designation GS1011M EVK Mrk II Evaluation Kit. In an exemplary embodiment shown in the Mobile Device may be docked or integrated with the Tool in a suitably designed cradle C with wireless e.g. Bluetooth WiFi or NFC communication and inductive battery charging between the devices. The Mobile Device may be releaseably secured in the cradle C and a cradle magnet M clip hook and loop fasteners or other means used to attach the cradle C to a reinforced metal battery access door of the Hand Tool . In one example the battery access door may comprise a male fastener e.g. tongue designed to removably interlock with a complementary female fastener in the cradle C such that the cradle can function as a docking station for the Mobile Device or as an attachment point for other accessories such as flexible strap or display. Cameras may also be provided in each of the docked Mobile Device and Hand Tool for reading two and three dimensional bar codes on tires and or alpha digital labels or branded tires. This reading may then be transmitted to a remote terminal for reviewing adding modifying or storing vehicle tire vehicle or user data. The integrated camera in the Hand Tool or Mobile Device may also be used in combination with a comb like measurement tool for measuring tread depth.

Referring to the exemplary Hand Tool incorporates various electronics and wireless components applicable to the ITD and can also function as a standalone i.e. without other devices or connectivity digital tire pressure gauge for manually measuring pressure and temperature in any vehicle tire T The exemplary Hand Tool functions to accurately statically measure tire pressure ranging from 25 psi to 150 psi without any required calibration e.g. by using an exemplary SP 37 chip described above and unique plastic manifold that mounts directly on the PCB with a rubber gasket or O ring for air pressure sealing . Additionally temperature compensation pressure readings can be normalized by knowing the temperature on or inside the vehicle tire and the ambient temperature read by the Tool . The exemplary Hand Tool may also include two NFC tags not shown on the battery access door one tag for automatic pairing with a mobile device e.g. smartphone or table the second tag linking to a website with detailed instructions for using the Tool and its associated features and components. A third NFC tag may also be affixed to the outside or inside of a carry case for storing the Hand Tool and may electronically communicate these same instructions to the user when the tag is read by the Tool or other RFID reader .

In one exemplary embodiment the present Hand Tool includes a dual head air chuck elongated hollow steel shaft and ergonomic handle . Respective metal e.g. brass valve guides are attached and sealed by complementary threads to the two heads of the air chuck and serve to operatively engage the valve stem of the pneumatic tire T when using the Hand Tool to manually check air pressure and or temperature. The exemplary air chuck may further incorporate a GORTEX air filter or other suitable filter means designed to reduce moisture and substantially prevent contaminants from entering the Tool through the hollow shaft and potentially damaging the SP 37 chip. The valve guides are designed to operatively fit conventional inflate thru V2B Alligator and or Dill sealing valve caps. As best shown in the exemplary tool handle comprises top and bottom plastic shells joined together by screws S and cooperating to form a durable protective housing for storing interior components of the Hand Tool . The handle includes an air manifold in sealed e.g. by O ring fluid communication with the steel shaft and comprising an operatively connected integrated TPMS sensor capable of electronically measuring pressure and temperature within the tire chamber. The TPMS sensor may be identical to the TPMS sensor incorporated in the ITD . As previously described the exemplary TPMS sensor comprises a single integrated circuit or chip with integrated sensors including pressure acceleration temperature and battery voltage respectively and integrated peripherals including microcontroller and other components such as flash memory ROM power supply management analog to digital converter ADC for signal conditioning low frequency LF receiver and 315 433 MHz RF transmitter. The TPMS sensor resides within a recessed compartment integrally formed at one end of the air manifold and sealed by a rubber O ring and the top shell of the handle when assembled. The air manifold may also include integrally molded sockets for holding respective white flashlight LEDs directed towards the air chuck at a distal end of the Hand Tool . The flashlight LEDs and other emergency red and or amber LEDs may be operatively connected to and activated by the tool microcontroller described below.

Primary electronic components of the Hand Tool are carried on a PCB assembly located between the top and bottom plastic shells of the handle . The exemplary shells may be fabricated in high visibility yellow or other conspicuous color. The bottom shell may also have a slightly concave design such that the Hand Tool can conveniently rest on top of the vehicle tire. As best shown in the exemplary PCB assembly comprises an axial inductor A battery strap B piezoelectric buzzer micro USB charging port PCB C button contacts TPMS sensor and radial RF choke D. The air manifold may also mount directly to the PCB assembly using screws or the like. As shown in the hardware block diagram of the exemplary PCB assembly comprises a tool microcontroller button contacts piezoelectric buzzer USB charging port micro connector and USB to serial converter A temperature and pressure sensors and and wireless components including a 125 KHz LFID transmitter 433 MHz RFID receiver 13 MHz RFID tag reader rewriter transceiver Wi Fi module and respective antennas. One or more of these components may be integrated in the exemplary TPMS sensor described above. In addition to buzzer or alternatively the Hand Tool may incorporate a small 10 mm coin vibrator motor creating a vibrating alert which may be especially effective in noisy environments in and around the vehicle. The electronics may be powered by a 9V rechargeable replaceable battery connected to the PCB assembly and stored in a battery compartment defined by the bottom shell . The battery compartment has a removable door for ready access to the compartment for inserting and removing the battery . The battery compartment door may be ultrasonically welded to the bottom shell in order for re manufacturing or servicing the battery by certified personnel. A 9V to 3.2V switching step down voltage regulator functions to convert the battery output voltage to the 3.2 V needed for the electrical components. The board may also comprise a 9V 5V diode drop A. The battery may be charged via the USB micro connector and a conventional wall charger or vehicle cigarette lighter plug in including battery charging protection circuitry. The battery charging circuitry can be smart to enable system voltages such as 12V or 24V vehicle voltages.

The exemplary tool microcontroller communicates with all peripherals of the Hand Tool and comprises integrated non volatile flash memory e.g. 256 KB 512 KB for storing the application code periodic tire pressure and temperature sensor readings and other vehicle wheel and tire data. The controller memory includes 32 KB RAM. The hardware block diagram of details the following I O applicable for communicating with targeted peripherals 

Various input output components of the Hand Tool comprise a tool display with cover A and shock vibration absorbing backing and user control buttons and . The display and buttons are supported within the electronics housing adjacent the PCB assembly by molded plastic carrier such that user control buttons operatively align with respective button contacts on the board assembly . In one embodiment the tool display comprises a backlight illuminated TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display which connects to the PCB assembly via a ribbon cable and a ZIF Zero Insertion Force connector. The display screen may include touchscreen and drag and drop features and may be periodically refreshed by the tool microcontroller to prevent image burn in.

The exemplary Hand Tool comprises three user control buttons for measurement collection and sending as well as lighting. The user control buttons operatively align with contacts on the PCB as indicated above and protrude through respective openings formed with the top plastic shell of the tool handle .

The first user control LED button performs one of the following functions each time it is pressed and cycles to the next function when subsequently pressed 

 4 Shortens the sleep timer so that sleep is entered earlier unless another measurement is taken or a button is pressed.

The second user control SENSOR button functions in combination with the ITD described above. The SENSOR button triggers a LF e.g. 125 Khz signal and waits for a response from the ITD in the 433 MHz band. A one second timer is started within which a start pulse from the 433 MHz module should appear else the Hand Tool returns to its ready reading mode. During the timeout period after the SENSOR button is pressed other actions cannot occur meaning NFC or pressure sensor readings are not performed. The microcontroller is exclusively awaiting to bit decode a response from the ITD.

The third user control CONNECT button puts the Hand Tool in Wi Fi mode. While in Wi Fi mode the Hand Tool performs no function other than Wi Fi connection setup and application layer protocol exchange. Pressing the CONNECT button a second time switches Wi Fi mode from Adhoc to Infrastructure . Pressing the CONNECT button a third time exits Wi Fi mode and resumes ready reading mode in which NFC and pressure temperature measurements can be taken. Pressing the SENSOR button during Wi Fi mode will also exit Wi Fi mode.

As indicated above the wireless components of the Hand Tool include a 125 KHz LFID transmitter 433 MHz RFID receiver 13 MHz RFID tag reader rewriter transceiver Wi Fi module and respective antennas. The transceiver may also comprise a 315 MHz NFC reader rewriter. One or more of these components may be integrated with the exemplary TPMS sensor previously described.

Upon depressing the SENSOR button of the Hand Tool and holding the Tool in close proximity to the tire s ITD e.g. less than 10 cm the 125 KHz Low Frequency transmitter functions to awaken the ITD electronics module and thereafter initiate transmission of realtime and stored tire pressure and temperature information via the ITD s integrated 433 MHz transmitter . The ITD data transmission is received by 433 MHz RFID receiver of the Hand Tool . This exemplary receiver may support ISM frequency bands including 300 348 MHz 387 464 MHz and 779 928 MHz as well as major modulation schemes 2 FSK 4 FSK GFSK and OOK. The exemplary 13 MHz or 125 KHz RFID transceiver is applicable for reading and writing to NFC and other radio frequency tags. The Wi Fi module functions to wirelessly transmit tire data and other information from the Hand Tool to an end device e.g. smartphone laptop tablet PC or other computing device which may in turn send the tire data and information on to a back end or cloud server. The exemplary end device may run either Apple or Android S and may be capable of connecting to the Wi Fi module on the Hand Tool for data transfer. The integrated USB port of the Hand Tool can also be used to transfer data between the Tool and end device computer .

The exemplary Hand Tool may also incorporate a digital camera not shown with infrared or sonic technology capable of measuring tire tread depth using photo analysis and other known technology. The Tool can be wirelessly paired with smart mobile devices such as the iPhone Samsung Android and ZONAR Systems 20 20 tablet via Bluetooth WiFi cellular or NFC wireless communications using mobile apps and related programming. Driver reports such as CSA 2010 can be compiled and photo video data collected and stored for transmission to a remote server cloud server corporate office or the like.

The exemplary Hand Tool may be utilized as i a standalone digital tire pressure gauge ii a wireless RFID NFC tag reader rewriter and iii a wireless data collection and communication device applicable for use combination with the present ITD described above. In one implementation the Hand Tool functions to statically measure tire pressure readings from 25 psi to 150 psi and to timestamp and record each reading. The timestamp may be a relative tick count since power. For each setting of the Real Time Clock RTC the calendar time and relative tick time is collated and saved to non volatile flash memory of the Hand Tool to be used in determining the calendar time of all the recorded measurements.

Referring to in one implementation the Hand Tool is activated by pressing the user control LED button. After initialization the Hand Tool updates the LCD and enters a main functionality loop. The post initialization display on the LCD shows one or more of the following 

After entering the main functionality loop the Hand Tool is ready to perform measurements and take action based on user button presses. When the Hand Tool is in sleep mode and wakes via the user control LED button press it resumes at the post initialization step before the main functional loop.

Upon power up an initialization message i.e. welcome screen is the first screen displayed by the LCD and quickly changes to the post initialization display. An exemplary post initialization display is represented below.

When a measurement or tag reading is made the processor controlled buzzer provides audible feedback indicating positive and negative events. For example a single short beep may provide affirmative feedback when a measurement has been taken or a data transfer completed. A double short beep may indicate an error or timeout condition. A single long beep may sound when a measurement reading crosses a pre configured threshold such as 80 psi or lower pressure value flat tire condition or a tire temperature value above a predetermined maximum e.g. 200 degrees F. . After audible feedback the Hand Tool LCD will display the record number on the left edge of the line following by the type value as represented below. Since the NFC tag message may contain an ID string longer than can fit on the screen the last 8 digits of the ID are shown. The last line of the display is reserved for status and error messages.

The following examples show LCD tire pressure readings made without identification i.e. using the Hand Tool as a simple digital tire pressure gauge and with error messages.

When a memory full condition occurs a measurement or tag reading is still displayed but the record number is replaced with to indicate that the data has not been recorded or saved. An audible double beep the after the measurement or reading also alerts the user to this condition. Similarly when the battery charge falls below a critical threshold an audible double beep alerts the user to the low battery condition and no further measurements are performed. In this event the Hand Tool enters a lower power state and maintains the last LCD screen update until the sleep timer expires after which the LCD is disabled and sleep mode is entered.

If the user control LED button is pressed to exit sleep mode before sufficient battery charging occurs then the following screen appears 

If the battery has been charged past the critical threshold then sleep exit would resume with the post initialization display and show the current memory and record count.

The LED button step toggle displays the following exemplary screen before entering sleep mode. If any button is pressed or a measurement reading is made before this timeout the display resumes with a normal status last line.

In Example 4 above this screen would display if the user turned on or woke the Hand Tool pressed the LED button again to activate the lighting then after taking 4 measurements readings pressed the LED button again to turn off the lighting. If the user wants to continue using the Hand Tool avoiding sleep mode then he or she simply presses the LED button again or takes another measurement reading. If the LED button is pressed during a short sleep entry timeout then the display may be updated to normal status line but without activating the LED lights or LCD backlight.

By pressing the user control CONNECT button the Hand Tool enters a Wi Fi connect mode. Pressing the CONNECT button once selects and enters adhoc mode. The Hand Tool is then available to accept wireless adhoc connections until the sleep timer expires and the Tool enters sleep mode. The Tool will not enter sleep mode while a connection is active. If the CONNECT button is pressed a second time the Wi Fi mode switches from adhoc to infrastructure mode. Initially the settings for infrastructure mode may be set via USB port if that mode is to be used.

As represented in Example 5 above the first line of the LCD shows the Wi Fi mode selected. The second line shows the state of the Hand Tool which can be one of the following depending on the mode 

When measurement records are retrieved and erased from Hand Tool flash memory the displayed record count will be zero. Since only the a host computing device initiates an erase a zero record count indicates a successful upload.

A simplified program flow diagram illustrating software architecture of the exemplary Hand Tool is represented in . The Hand Tool software may be written as a monolithic single threaded C program with direct hardware access and may use microchip libraries where available. Interrupt inputs will raise events to be handled within the main code loop. Since blocking operation will rely on a wait function the wait function may be hooked for pressure sensor sampling and handling NFC tag reads since those operations are always on during idle main loop time. In the exemplary embodiment sensor readings including NFC and pressure are repeated only during main loop event handing and not in Wi Fi mode or when other data exchange e.g. LF transfer is being performed.

An Application Mode state variable maintains the current event action to perform while in the main loop. This allows different actions to be taken based on the mode within each iteration of the main loop. It is primarily used to handle the button events and exit from one mode back to the previous mode for example the CONNECT button was pressed and the Tool entered into connection event handling. While performing Wi Fi connection event handing button event handling from the main loop would trigger the Tool to leave connection event handling.

Referring to the tables below a flash memory segment of the Tool is allocated for storage of measurement data and tag readings. Records are written from the start of a segment and continue until there is no more free space for the last record size. Each record saved is prefixed with a record type byte that identifies the type and size of data bytes that follow. Each record type has a predefined structure length. The End of List EOL byte denotes the end of the last record in the segment. The EOL byte is overwritten by the next incoming record.

In the exemplary Hand Tool the application layer protocol resides on top of both the Wi Fi layers and USB serial CDC layer and defines the application data exchange format that occurs with the far end remote connection. See . Application layer protocol for data transfer and or configuration can be accessed via either Wi Fi or USB charging port as a CDC port . The Hand Tool waits until a wireless connection is established and a request is received. The requests may be pseudo HTTP like for ease of the remote side programming and debugging. Incoming requests do not need to come in the same order and each acknowledge response is accompanied by a sequence number. The initial connection request resets the sequence number back to 1. Wake from sleep mode also resets the sequence. A NACK indicates the request was not processed. The sequence number is still incremented on a NACK just as it would an ACK.

As mentioned above various tire wheel and user data may be stored in one or more active or passive NFC tags or stickers A B C applied to the tire and or vehicle and or driver ID card and read written to using either a suitably equipped Mobile Device or the present exemplary Hand Tool or other NFC enabled devices. The NFC tags allow two way contactless radio communication between endpoints and are readily programmable by NFC apps.

As generally known and understood in the art NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies typically requiring a distance of 10 cm or less. NFC operates at 13.56 MHz on ISO IEC 18000 3 air interface and at rates ranging from 106 kbit s to 424 kbit s. NFC involves an initiator and a target the initiator actively generates an RF field that can power a passive target. This enables NFC targets to take very simple form factors such as tags stickers key fobs or cards that do not require batteries. NFC peer to peer communication is also possible provided both devices are powered.

NFC tags contain data and are typically read only but may be rewriteable. They can be custom encoded and may offer between 96 and 4 096 bytes of memory. NFC devices are able to receive and transmit data at the same time. Thus they can check for potential collisions if the received signal frequency does not match with the transmitted signal s frequency. NFC and Bluetooth are both short range communication technologies that may be integrated into the present Hand Tool or Mobile Device e.g. smartphone tablet laptop computer or the like . With a maximum working distance of less than 20 cm NFC has a shorter range than Bluetooth which reduces the likelihood of unwanted interception. That makes NFC particularly suitable for crowded areas where correlating a signal with its transmitting physical device and by extension its user becomes difficult. The connection between two NFC devices is automatically established quickly generally in less than a tenth of a second. The maximum data transfer rate of NFC may be 424 kbit s or more. NFC is also compatible with existing passive RFID 13.56 MHz ISO IEC 18000 3 infrastructures.

In one exemplary implementation of the present system and method the following data may be written to rewritten and read from various NFC tags A B C on the vehicle tires vehicle tractor and or trailer and driver ID card FLEET DATA including user ID fleet name and fleet status USER DATA including user ID fleet ID first and last name e mail address telephone number and other contact information password and user status VEHICLE DATA including vehicle ID vehicle type bus truck tractor trailer dolly vehicle VIN number and DOT number TIRE DATA including tire ID tire brand model tire cost recommended tire pressure equal installation nitrogen tire location on vehicle tire installer inspector name GPS location tire pressure tire temperature tread depth tire photographs VRMS code maximum temperature reading minimum pressure reading time and distance traveled readings while above threshold high temperature value time and distance traveled readings while below threshold low pressure value and EVENT DATA including event ID event date time event type installation inspection retread repair damage removal and miscellaneous comments. The NFC tags may also comprise instructional videos photographs computer renderings and other materials useful in implementing the system and method of the present disclosure.

On tires the exemplary NFC tags may be applied via adhesive or other bonding agent to the side wall of the tire or embedded in a rubber layer of the tire or located inside the tire or at any other point suitably protected against inadvertent damage or removal. A single tire may include multiple NFC tags. The data discussed above can be stored manipulated and correlated with tire location on GPS tire location on truck or trailer odometer reading tread depth and other parameters. In one embodiment the vehicle tire may include a permanent single dot round label with an indicator dot thermo dot which turns black at a predetermined rated temperature thereby enabling a permanent record of a maximum tire wall and or tread temperature. One commercial example of a temperature label is that manufactured by Omega Engineering Inc. of Stamford Conn. and sold under the product designation OMEGALABEL TL S series .

Tire data transmitted by the ITD and read by the Hand Tool or Mobile Device may be transferred written or rewritten by the Hand Tool or Mobile Device to one or more NFC tags applied to the vehicle wheel and or tire. Data transfer from the Hand Tool and Mobile Device may also be made via bump file transfer to other NFC devices or tools. In other implementations the Hand Tool Mobile Device and or ITD may wirelessly communicate directly with vehicle electronics e.g. EOBR and subsystems via data buses SAE J1708 1587 1939 2497 PLC and CAN . The exemplary Hand Tool and or ITD may also comprise an integrated cellular modem for wirelessly transferring data directly to a cloud server or other remote terminal.

After collecting the above data via the NFC tags A B C the exemplary Hand Tool transmits a LF wake up signal e.g. at 125 KHz to the ITD located in a selected tire T of the vehicle while parked or idling. Once awakened the ITD transmits tire data including the ITD s unique identifier the current ITD battery voltage battery life current tire temperature and air chamber pressure maximum and minimum pressure values measured since the immediate prior transmission maximum temperature value measured since the immediate prior transmission the accumulated time the vehicle tire has traveled while above a threshold high temperature value the accumulated distance the vehicle tire has traveled while above the threshold high temperature value the accumulated time the vehicle tire has traveled while below a threshold low pressure value and or the accumulated distance the vehicle tire has traveled while below the threshold low pressure value. The ITD data is transmitted wirelessly by the integrated ITD transceiver at 433 MHz or 315 MHz for passenger vehicles and received by the Hand Tool via its integrated 433 MHz receiver.

In the present example all tires T of the vehicle contain the present ITD described above. Data for each tire T may be read in succession and transmitted to the Hand Tool in an identical manner. All data received by the Hand Tool from the NFC tags A B C and ITD is date stamped and stored in flash memory and may be transferred to the Mobile Device via WiFi Bluetooth or the like or by USB cable connection. The Mobile Device may transfer all or part of the collected NFC data and ITD data to the vehicle s telematics information and communications technology or ITC or EOBR or sealed splice pack system e.g. VES PAC inline circuit fuse holder or other vehicle mounted or integrated computing communications unit. The collected NFC and ITD data may then be stored and or transferred by e.g. vehicle telematics via satellite or cellular network to a remote terminal such as server cloud storage or corporate office. Alternatively the collected NFC and ITD data may be transmitted by the Mobile Device via satellite or cellular network directly to the remote terminal e.g. server cloud storage or corporate office .

In a further exemplary implementation the Mobile Device may be used to activate and read the ITD and receive ITD data via an integrated or externally connected via audio jack 433 MHz transceiver. The ITD may also transmit at 433 315 MHz directly to the vehicle s telematics or may incorporate a cellular modem also in the tire for communicating data directly from the tire T to the remote terminal . Additionally the Hand Tool may also incorporate a cellular modem to communicate collected data directly to vehicle telematics and or the remote terminal .

Some or all of the data read by the Hand Tool or Mobile Device may be subsequently written to any one or more of the NFC tire tag A NFC vehicle tag B and NFC driver tag C. For example the Hand Tool may permanently write the life history of the tire T to the affixed NFC tire tag A. This tag information may include for example the accumulated time the vehicle tire has traveled while above a threshold high temperature value the accumulated distance the vehicle tire has traveled while above the threshold high temperature value the accumulated time the vehicle tire has traveled while below a threshold low pressure value and or the accumulated distance the vehicle tire has traveled while below the threshold low pressure value. This tire information may be analyzed by computer software on the Mobile Device or remote terminals. For example a low pressure tire below 60 psi driven for a prolonged time and or distance should be x rayed before retreading to assess its structural integrity and relative highway safety if and when retreaded. An electronic database may collect data for each used tire and software employed to assess the tire condition and alert the tire manufacturer retreader upon reading the NFC tire tag in the event of a potentially dangerous tire condition e.g. possible shredding . For vehicle tire inspections using the exemplary Hand Tool an integrated timer may activate at a first data reading e.g. using the ITD to calculate the total time taken by the driver inspector to perform tire inspections on all wheels of the vehicle.

In further exemplary embodiments the present disclosure comprises a vehicle inspection station with infrared IR sensors integrated in the pavement. The sensors take IR readings of the vehicle tires. An elevated tire tread temperature is indicated by dark color readings transmitted by the IR sensor. This high temperature condition may evidence misalignment of the tire. In another embodiment the exemplary Hand Tool or Mobile Device described above may incorporate an IR sensor camera capable of taking IR readings of the vehicle tire. A misaligned or high temperature tire will comprise a dark colored IR reading. Multiple IR sensor cameras may also be fixed to the vehicle chassis for monitoring temperature of all tires 24 7. In yet another exemplary embodiment one or more TPMS sensors may be embedded in the tread of the vehicle tire and may communicate with multiple IR sensors to measure tire temperature using IR. The IR sensors may be located in the tire tread and side wall. Relative temperature readings may be used to assess realtime alignment and relative safety of the tire. In yet another exemplary embodiment the present Hand Tool may include a removable plug in extended PCB antenna A shown in .

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment one or more of the NFC RFID tags described above may comprise a Smart Tag Assembly STA affixed to an object such as the vehicle tire shown in and adapted for electronically storing and processing data and wirelessly communicating data when interrogated by an RFID reader. The RFID reader may be incorporated in the exemplary Hand Tool as previously described or may comprise a smartphone tablet or other NFC capable electronic device. As shown in the Smart Tag Assembly comprises a multiple layer RFID laminate and low profile rubber tag carrier . The exemplary RFID laminate shown in incorporates an RFID inlay including a microchip A and antenna B bonded to a polyethylene terephthalate PET substrate and laminated between spacer rings an outside label cover and backing . The spacer rings surround the RFID inlay and substrate as best shown in . The RFID laminate may further comprise a pre applied pressure sensitive adhesive which is exposed by removing a suitable protective release paper not shown . The above components of the RFID laminate may be assembled using any suitable adhesive or other means. As discussed previously the exemplary RFID laminate or tag may be read only having a pre assigned identification numbers or may be read write and field programmable.

As best shown in the exemplary tag carrier is molded to a Rubber Manufacturing Association RMA 2 surface grade for increased adhesion is substantially disk shaped and defines a recessed pocket designed for receiving and holding the RFID laminate . The tag carrier has an inwardly extending peripheral lip surrounding the recessed pocket and divided into equally spaced arcuate sections A D adapted for retaining and protecting the RFID laminate . The arcuate sections A D may have respective chamfered top edges to facilitate insertion of the RFID laminate into the carrier . To further secure and retain the RFID laminate inside the carrier a plastic or metal snap ring not shown may be inserted under the peripheral lip and over an annular margin of the RFID laminate . The outside peripheral edge of the exemplary carrier may also be rounded as best shown in .

In the present embodiment the tag carrier is constructed of a generally flexible and durable natural rubber with a hardness of between about 50 and 80 durometer. The height H of the exemplary tag carrier is less than 0.25 inches and its outside diameter OD is less than 2.0 inches. The total depth D1 of the recessed pocket is about 0.10 inches while the depth D2 between a bottom of the peripheral lip and an inside surface of the pocket is about 0.040 inches. To facilitate proper and effective adhesion the inside surface of the pocket and the bottom surface of the carrier may be textured to a depth ranging from about 0.00100 and 0.00600 e.g. MT 11050 .

Referring again to the outside cover of the RFID laminate comprises certain human and or machine readable laser printed indicia e.g. numbers and codes serving to identify and track the vehicle tire and an orientation marker applicable for indicating proper placement of the Smart Tag Assembly on the tire. The identifying indicia includes for example a TMC Truck Maintenance Council code a VMRS Vehicle Maintenance Service Record code a serial number a model number and the tire manufacturing date. VMRS is a structured coding system comprising a 9 digit code represented as follows 

All of the above data may be stored locally on a single Smart Tag Assembly . In the case of vehicle tires the manufacturer product code tire size fleet tire code fleet name Department of Transportation DOT code date of purchase and other information could be included. The exemplary Smart Tag Assembly can store up to 120 digits of customizable data. Any number of other metrics can also be associated with the uniquely identified item in the cloud. In this way whenever a Smart Tag Assembly is scanned a complete history of the tracked object could be pulled from the cloud and reviewed. For vehicle tires this could include a history of repairs and retreads load range tread pattern Vehicle Maintenance Reporting Standards VMRS position condition codes and more. The following are examples of various STA local and cloud based data storage 

As best shown in the orientation marker printed on the assembly cover comprises a direction arrow which is intended to point towards a center of the wheel hub H as indicated by broken line when the Smart Tag Assembly is properly oriented and affixed to the vehicle tire . This orientation of the Smart Tag Assembly is intended to reduce fatigue at the connection of the RFID antenna and microchip as the tire side wall flexes during each revolution.

The exemplary Smart Tag Assembly may be mounted to the vehicle tire by first attaching the tag carrier to a prepped and cleaned rubber surface of the tire side wall. The mounting surfaces of the tire and tag carrier may be cleaned using any suitable cleaner such as isopropanol alcohol. The tag carrier may be permanently affixed to the tire using a epoxy resin or other adhesive . The resin may be cured in the field using a conventional battery powered heat gun which incorporates a tubular adapter designed to engage the carrier while properly spacing the heat source from the vehicle tire . After removing its release paper the RFID laminate is quickly inserted into the clean recessed pocket of the tag carrier and shifted or rotated if necessary to its proper orientation with the marker arrow pointing to the center of the wheel hub H . The RFID laminate is held inside the carrier by the adhesive as well as mechanically by the inward extending peripheral lip .

Referring to when mounting the Smart Tag Assembly to a metal part such as a vehicle wheel hub H a double sided adhesive spacer disk may be incorporated between the metal surface of the hub and the tag carrier and RFID laminate . The spacer disk may help overcome some of the problems RFID tags suffer when near metal such as detuning and reflecting of the RFID signal which can cause poor tag read range phantom reads or no read signal at all. Alternatively the Smart Tag Assembly may incorporate an RFID on metal abbreviated to ROM tag. The RFID on metal tag may comprise a specialized antenna design that utilizes the metal interference and signal reflection for longer read range than similar sized tags attached to non metal objects.

As best shown in the exemplary tag carrier is molded to a Rubber Manufacturing Association RMA 2 surface grade for increased adhesion is substantially disk shaped and defines a recessed pocket designed for receiving and holding the RFID laminate . The tag carrier has an inwardly extending peripheral lip surrounding the recessed pocket and divided by notches A B into equal arcuate e.g. semi circular sections A B adapted for retaining and protecting the RFID laminate . The arcuate sections A B may have respective chamfered top edges to facilitate insertion of the RFID laminate into the carrier . To further secure and retain the RFID laminate inside the carrier a plastic or metal snap ring not shown may be inserted under the peripheral lip and over an annular margin of the RFID laminate . The outside peripheral edge of the exemplary carrier may also be rounded as best shown in .

Like tag carrier previously described the exemplary tag carrier may be constructed of a generally flexible and durable natural rubber with a hardness of between about 50 and 80 durometer or between about 50 and 60 durometer. The dimensions of the exemplary tag carrier may be substantially identical to the dimensions of carrier . For example the height of the exemplary tag carrier may be less than 0.25 inches and its outside diameter may be less than 2.0 inches. The total depth of the recessed pocket may be about 0.10 inches while the depth between a bottom of the peripheral lip and an inside surface of the pocket may be about 0.040 inches. To facilitate proper and effective adhesion the inside surface of the pocket and outside back surface of the carrier may be textured to a depth ranging from about 0.00100 and 0.00600 e.g. MT 11050 .

Referring again to the outside cover of the RFID laminate comprises certain human and or machine readable laser printed indicia such as indicia previously described serving to identify and track the vehicle tire and an orientation marker applicable for indicating proper placement of the Smart Tag Assembly on the tire. As previously described the identifying indicia includes for example a TMC Truck Maintenance Council code a VMRS Vehicle Maintenance Service Record code a serial number a model number and the tire manufacturing date. VMRS is a structured coding system comprising a 9 digit code represented and assigned as described above with reference to Smart Tag Assembly .

All of the above data may be stored locally on a single Smart Tag Assembly . In the case of vehicle tires the manufacturer product code tire size fleet tire code fleet name Department of Transportation DOT code date of purchase and other information could be included. The exemplary Smart Tag Assembly can store up to 120 digits of customizable data. Any number of other metrics can also be associated with the uniquely identified item in the cloud. In this way whenever a Smart Tag Assembly is scanned a complete history of the tracked object could be pulled from the cloud and reviewed. For vehicle tires this could include a history of repairs and retreads load range tread pattern Vehicle Maintenance Reporting Standards VMRS position condition codes and more.

As previously described the orientation marker printed on the RFID laminate comprises a direction arrow which is intended to point towards a center of the wheel hub when the Smart Tag Assembly is properly oriented and affixed to the vehicle tire . This orientation of the Smart Tag Assembly is intended to reduce fatigue at the connection of the RFID antenna and microchip as the tire side wall flexes during each revolution as previously described.

Like Smart Tag Assembly the exemplary Smart Tag Assembly may be mounted to the vehicle tire by first attaching the tag carrier to a prepped and cleaned rubber surface of the tire side wall. The mounting surfaces of the tire and tag carrier may be cleaned using any suitable cleaner such as isopropanol alcohol. The tag carrier may be permanently affixed to the tire using a epoxy resin or other adhesive. The resin may be cured in the field using a conventional battery powered heat gun which incorporates a tubular adapter designed to engage the carrier while properly spacing the heat source from the vehicle tire . Alternative heat sources may comprise heat lamps or heat pads that take advantage of convective conductive and radiative heating. In other exemplary embodiments the tag carrier may be mounted to the rubber tire by chemical or heat based vulcanization processes through ultrasonic welding using Pressure Sensitive Adhesives PSAs or any combination of such mounting means. If using a light cured adhesive the tag carrier may be constructed of a substantially light penetrable material sufficient to enable effective curing without directly exposing the bonding agent applied to the outside or back surface of carrier to the curing light.

After removing its release paper the RFID laminate is quickly inserted into the clean recessed pocket of the tag carrier and shifted or rotated if necessary to its proper orientation with the marker arrow pointing to the center of the wheel hub. The RFID laminate is held inside the carrier by the adhesive as well as mechanically by the inward extending peripheral lip .

As best shown in to promote increased mounting strength and permanency the outside back surface of the exemplary tag carrier may have a substantially concave curvature. This concave surface is designed to substantially match a complementary convex curvature C of the tire sidewall and thereby reduce any inherent outward flexing during installation. This preformed curvature of the present embodiment may help mitigate the effect of forces seeking to return an otherwise flat resilient carrier to its natural state. In some cases such forces may cause the flat carrier to lift away from the tire sidewall during the curing process. To facilitate proper orientation the exemplary tag carrier may also define a generally flat peripheral region best shown in intended to reside closely adjacent the wheel rim R in a relatively protected area of the tire sidewall proximate the tire bead . In this orientation the two circumferentially spaced notches A B in the carrier lip point tangentially away from the nearest point on the wheel rim R thereby promoting increased bending or flex to closely fit the carrier to the curvature of the tire .

Referring to when mounting the Smart Tag Assembly to a metal part such as vehicle wheel rim R shown in or hub a double sided adhesive spacer disk may be incorporated between the metal surface of the rim or hub and the tag carrier and RFID laminate . As previously discussed the spacer disk may help overcome some of the problems RFID tags suffer when near metal such as detuning and reflecting of the RFID signal which can cause poor tag read range phantom reads or no read signal at all. In order for the tag and read to communicate successfully there must be a gap in between the tag s antenna and the metal surface. The rubber carrier can be used to establish this gap when in close proximity to metals. The necessary distance required to overcome the interference in our testing setup was 0.145 inches. At this distance or greater the NFC tags could function normally even when in close proximity to steel cast iron aluminum etc. Alternatively the Smart Tag Assembly may incorporate an RFID on metal abbreviated to ROM tag. The RFID on metal tag may comprise a specialized antenna design that utilizes the metal interference and signal reflection for longer read range than similar sized tags attached to non metal objects.

For the purposes of describing and defining the present invention it is noted that the use of relative terms such as substantially generally approximately and the like are utilized herein to represent an inherent degree of uncertainty that may be attributed to any quantitative comparison value measurement or other representation. These terms are also utilized herein to represent the degree by which a quantitative representation may vary from a stated reference without resulting in a change in the basic function of the subject matter at issue.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described above. No element act or instruction used in this description should be construed as important necessary critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Although only a few of the exemplary embodiments have been described in detail herein those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in these exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the appended claims.

In the claims any means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Unless the exact language means for performing a particular function or step is recited in the claims a construction under 112 6th paragraph is not intended. Additionally it is not intended that the scope of patent protection afforded the present invention be defined by reading into any claim a limitation found herein that does not explicitly appear in the claim itself.

