---

title: Methods and systems for detecting an electronic intrusion
abstract: Methods and systems for detecting an electronic intrusion are described. A notification is received, over a network, from a server, the notification reporting a detection of a user activity. In response to receiving the notification reporting the detection of the user activity, the user activity is identified as a possible electronic intrusion into a user account. A location of a user corresponding to the user account is determined. Based at least in part on the location of the user, it is identified whether to communicate a request to the user for instructions to respond to the notification. A response is received from the user. The response includes instructions to block access to the user account at the server. Command information is communicated to the server based on the response. The command information includes a command to block access to the user account
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531739&OS=09531739&RS=09531739
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09531739
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151211
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 670 887 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DETECTING AN ELECTRONIC INTRUSION filed Nov. 7 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to methods and systems supporting data communication systems. More particularly methods and systems for detecting an electronic intrusion are described.

A user may operate a client machine to configure disarm and alarm a surveillance system that protects their home from an unwanted intrusion. In some instances the user may configure domains in the home differently in accordance with whether the user is away from the home or at home but only utilizing some of the rooms in the home.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some example embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details.

As described further below according to various example embodiments of the disclosed subject matter described and claimed herein methods and systems for detection of an electronic intrusion are provided. Various embodiments are described below in connection with the figures provided herein.

The alarm server is illustrated to further monitor for a possible electronic intrusion at the application server hosting an eBay account for the user as provided by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. and the application server hosting a Facebook account for the user as provided by Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. Each of the application servers is further shown to persistently store service information on data storage . The service information may be utilized to interact with the alarm server .

Accordingly the application servers and may monitor and report activity in an electronic domain e.g. user account associated with a particular service provider that may constitute an electronic intrusion into the electronic domain . It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the electronic domains may also be embodied as some other logical construct hosted by the application servers and and associated with the user.

The system is further shown to include multiple buildings e.g. homes businesses etc. that respectively include sensors S S S S S and S that are positioned in different rooms. The sensors e.g. S S may be utilized for the monitoring of physical domains . Accordingly the system may be utilized for the monitoring of physical domains and electronic domains thereby providing a centralized and integrated detection of unwanted electronic or physical intrusion.

The system is further shown to include data storage e.g. hard disk optical disk etc. that is communicatively coupled to the alarm server and utilized to persistently store alarm information . The alarm information may be utilized to store information for each user of the alarm server as described later in this document. The mobile device may include a client application program that may be utilized to communicate with the alarm server and the application servers and . According to one embodiment the client application program may be downloaded as an app to the mobile device e.g. digital phone . According to another embodiment the client application program may be specialized for each of service providers e.g. Bank of America eBay Facebook being hosted by the application servers and . Accordingly the mobile device may store multiple apps that are utilized to interact with different services.

The alarm server may include a communication module and a processing module . The communication module may be utilized to communicate with the mobile device the application servers and and the buildings . The processing module may be utilized to process and store information.

At operation at the alarm server the communication module may receive the request including service provider information and at operation the processing module may store the service provider information in the data storage in alarm information . For example the service provider registration information may include a service provider name address telephone number email address etc. In some embodiments the alarm server may further verify the account by sending an email to the registered email address to ensure the service provider administrator responds to the email.

At operation the application server may communicate a request to the alarm server to register the service provider e.g. Bank of America as an application. For example the request may identify the application server as a client application.

At operation at the alarm server the communication module may receive the request and at operation the processing module may generate a service provider identifier and a service provider secret for the service provider. At operation the processing module may store the service provider identifier and the service provider secret in the appropriate entry of service provider information in the alarm information in the data storage . At operation the communication module may communicate the service provider identifier and the service provider secret to the application server .

At operation the application server may receive the service provider identifier and the service provider secret and at operation the application server may store the service provider identifier and the service provider secret as service information in the data storage . Accordingly the service provider is now registered with the alarm service.

At the alarm server at operation the communication module may receive the registration information . At operation the processing module may store information in the alarm information for the user. For example the processing module may store registration information at the appropriate user information entry . For example the registration information may include the name address home telephone number mobile telephone number etc. of the user and the alarm service user identifier may be generated by the alarm server and uniquely identify the user in the alarm service. In addition the processing module may generate an alarm service user identifier to uniquely identify the user in the alarm server and store the alarm service user identifier in the alarm information . At operation the processing module may generate a verification code and at operation communicate the verification code to the mobile device based on the mobile telephone number provided by the user. The alarm server may send the verification code to the mobile device to authenticate that the identified mobile device is associated with the user that is registering. At operation the mobile device may receive and display the verification code on a screen.

At the client machine at operation the user may read the verification code from the screen of the mobile device and enter the verification code into a user interface on the client machine to communicate the verification code to the alarm server .

At the alarm server at operation the communication module may receive the verification code and at operation the processing module may authenticate the verification code. For example the processing module may authenticate that the received verification code matches the verification code sent to the mobile device . At operation the communication module may communicate a message to the client machine indicating that the verification code was properly authenticated.

At operation the application server may receive the request and identify the request as originating from a user associated with a particular the service provider user identifier based on the credentials e.g. username password provided at sign in. At operation the application server may communicate a user interface that enables the user to select one alarm service from multiple alarm services that provide electronic intrusion detection services.

At operation at the client machine the user interface may be received and displayed. At operation the client machine may receive a selection from the user that identifies a particular alarm service and at operation communicate the selection to the application server . At operation the application server may receive the selection of the particular alarm service and at operation communicate the redirection information to the client machine . The redirection information may cause the client machine to redirect to the alarm server that corresponds to the selected alarm service. The redirection information may include the service provider user identifier the service provider identifier the service provider secret and a first universal resource locator URL that identifies a landing page of an alarm server for the selected alarm service.

At operation the application server may store an alarm service identifier that corresponds to the selected alarm service in the appropriate application user information that is associated with the user who is operating the client machine . The alarm service identifier may subsequently be used to communicate notices of potential electronic intrusions to the alarm server that hosts the selected alarm service.

At operation the client machine may receive the redirection information and communicate a request to the first URL that facilitates a sign in to the alarm server . Recall the first URL was received as redirection information from the application server and identifies the landing page on the alarm server .

At operation at the alarm server the communication module may receive the request and at operation communicate one or more user interfaces to the client machine to facilitate signing in to the application server.

At operation the client machine may receive and display the sign in screen and processing continues at operation on .

At operation the mobile device may receive the request for authorization and at operation receive and communicate authorization from the user to the alarm server .

At operation the alarm server may receive the authorization and at operation the processing module generates an access code to enable the application server to make an API call to the alarm server on behalf of the user. At operation the processing module may retrieve and store domain information for the user. For example the processing module may store the service provider identifier the service provider user identifier and the domain type e.g. electronic in the corresponding domain information for the user in the configuration information on the alarm server . The communication module may further communicate user interfaces e.g. to the client machine not shown to retrieve and store configuration information in the form of response information timeout information a timeout response and home monitor information . At operation the communication module may communicate redirection information to the client machine to redirect the client machine back to the application server . For example the redirection information may include a second URL identifying a landing page on the application server the alarm service user identifier and the access code.

At operation the client machine may receive the redirection information and at operation the client machine may utilize the second URL to retrieve a landing page on the application server . In one embodiment the second URL may be appended with the alarm service user identifier and the access code to the application server .

At operation the application server may receive the access code and the alarm service user identifier along with the request for the landing page identified by the second URL. At operation the application server may communicate a request for an access token to the alarm server the request including the access code the service provider identifier and the service provider secret .

At operation at the alarm server the communication module may receive the request for the access token . At operation the processing module may authenticate the request based on the service provider identifier and the service provider secret . Additionally the processing module may validate the access token provided in the request was assigned for a user belonging to the specific service provider identified by the service provider identifier . At operation the processing module may generate the access token based on the access code and store the access token in the alarm information . At operation the communication module may communicate a response including the access token to the application server . The response may further include the service provider user identifier associated with the user and the alarm service identifier associated with the alarm service and the alarm service user identifier that identifies the user on the alarm service.

At operation the application server may receive the access token and at operation the processing module may store the access token the alarm service identifier and the alarm service user identifier in the service information in the data storage that is coupled to the application server .

At operation at the alarm server the communication module may receive the notification of a possible electronic intrusion in the form of an activity e.g. user activity . At operation the processing module may process the notification as illustrated and described more fully in . For example the processing module may identify whether to communicate a request to the user for instructions to respond back to application server with instructions to permit access to the account or to respond back to application server with instructions to block access to the account. If the processing module determines to request instructions from the user then processing may continue at operation . If the processing module determines that access to the account is to be permitted without further action then processing may continue at operation . At operation in one embodiment not shown a command is communicated to the application server indicating the alarm server is permitting the access to the account. If the processing module determines to block access to the account then processing may continue at operation . At operation the communication module may communicate a request for instructions to the mobile device . For example the request may include a service provider identifier that identifies the service provider e.g. Bank of America and the user account where the user activity was detected and a request for instructions from the user. The request may include whether to block access to the account or permit access to the account. In another embodiment the request for instructions may further include an instruction to shut down the account. In one embodiment the request may be displayed on a user interface of a mobile device as illustrated and described in .

At operation at the mobile device the client application program may receive and display the request for instructions to the user. At operation the client application program may receive a selection from the user and communicate the selection in a response to the alarm server . For example the selection may identify that the alarm server should return instructions to application server associated with the service provider to block access to the account.

At operation at the alarm server the communication module may receive the response. At operation the communication module may identify a timeout in the absence of receiving the response. At decision operation the processing module may process the response or the timeout. If the processing module identifies a response that includes instructions in the form of a selection to permit access to the account then the processing continues at operation . If the processing module identifies a response that includes instructions in the form of a selection to block access to the account then processing continues at operation . If the processing module identifies a timeout then processing continues based on the timeout response for the electronic domain as configured by the user. For example the processing may continue at operation to permit access to the account or the processing may continue at operation to block access to the account. Other embodiments may include additional selections as being available to the user e.g. shut down the account permit read only access to the account . At operation the processing module may identify the user activity on the first account as an electronic intrusion into the first account. At operation the communication module may return the response permit access block access etc. to the application server in response to the notification of user activity received in operation .

At operation the application server may receive the command information and at operation the application server may block access to the account. For example the application server may sign off the user without warning the user. In some embodiments the application server may flag the user s account as having been taken over by a hacker.

At operation the application server detects a timeout on the notification communicated in operation and responds to the timeout by performing a configured response. For example the application server may respond in accordance with configuration provided by a user as illustrated in to block access to the account permit access to the account or provide restricted access to the account.

In another embodiment the service provider may immediately respond to a detected activity if a user has configured the alarm service to immediately permit or block access to an account. For example the alarm server may communicate the response information e.g. block or permit access to the application server or that in turn may utilize the response information to immediately respond to a detection of an activity in the account by blocking or permitting access to the account. This embodiment would further utilize a reverse authorization flow where the user authorizes the alarm service to make API calls to the service provider on behalf of the user.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations. In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present description. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. As noted the software may be transmitted over a network using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible mediums to facilitate transmission and communication of such software.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatuses and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The figures provided herein are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Thus methods and systems for detecting an electronic intrusion are disclosed. While the present disclosure has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to the embodiments described but may be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

