---

title: System and method for wireless management access to a telecommunications device
abstract: Systems and methods for wireless management access to a telecommunication device are provided. A portable device, such as a tablet, smartphone, etc., can be used to access a network device, such as a telecommunication device, by accessing a wireless access module of the telecommunication device using any desired wireless technology. When the portable device is in proximity to the telecommunication device the presence of the portable device may be detected, causing an attempted wireless communication between the portable device and the wireless access module. The portable device may provide various security information to the wireless access module that may be verified before access to the telecommunication device is granted. If the portable device is verified it may be authorized for wireless communications with the telecommunication device, including receiving an identifier for the telecommunication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654973&OS=09654973&RS=09654973
owner: Adtran, Inc.
number: 09654973
owner_city: Huntsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150220
---
Many different types models and versions of complex devices are implemented within a telecommunications network including those transmitting signals over optic fibers. Such devices implemented in a telecommunications network hereafter Device or Devices can be installed in various locations such as at a customer location buried underground or mounted up on a pole or tower. These Devices may require interactions to establish telecommunication services when the devices are first installed as well as later for periodic required testing troubleshooting maintenance upgrading and or other interactions. Sometimes more than one type model or version of the Device is located at a particular location. Moreover each Device may have unique configuration and operating parameters. When performing installation testing troubleshooting maintaining upgrading or other procedures a technical support individual needs access to the Device as well as gather information about each particular Device.

In many instances obtaining access to a particular Device may be time consuming or impossible especially when the Device in question is located in a difficult to access location. Such access requires plugging in a cable such as an Ethernet or RS 232 cable into a port located somewhere on the Device. However this assumes that the Device has a port that the technician has the appropriate equipment to connect to such port and that the port is readily accessible to the technician. Frequently such attempts to access a Device can take valuable time and resources and may prove impossible in the case of difficult to access Devices.

Therefore it would be desirable to have a convenient way for a technician to access and or communicate with a telecommunication device that overcomes the above mentioned challenges.

Embodiments of a portable technical support device include a wireless access module electrically coupled with a network device the wireless access module configured to detect that a portable device is in proximity to the network device the wireless access module comprising a wireless communication element for receiving a security information from the portable device and an access management logic for authorizing the portable device to communicate wirelessly with the network device through the wireless communication element wherein a wireless communication from the network device to the portable device through the wireless communication element comprises an identifier of the network device.

Other embodiments are also provided. Other systems methods features and advantages of the invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Although described with particular reference to a telecommunication device hereafter Device implemented in a fiber optic telecommunications network the system and method for providing wireless management access to a Device can be implemented with a variety of other types of telecommunication networks and or with a variety of other devices where on site access to the Device such as by a technician is desired. Examples of Devices include but are not limited to routers network switches fiber optic communication devices and any other communication devices. Examples of a portable device which may be used to wirelessly access the Device include but are not limited to a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet a portable computer and any type of portable device through or by which wireless communications may be made. Such portable device may be a special purpose device designed to provide wireless management access to a Device or may be a generalized portable device running software or an application that provides the functionality of wireless management access to a Device.

Thus the system and method for providing wireless management access to a telecommunications Device may be implemented in a combination of hardware and software. The hardware component can be implemented using specialized or generally known hardware elements. The software component can be implemented using processor executable code running on a computing device. The software can be stored in a memory and executed by a suitable instruction execution system microprocessor . The hardware implementation of the system and method for providing wireless management access to a Device can include any or a combination of the following technologies which are all well known in the art discrete electronic components a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit having appropriate logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA a separate specially designed integrated circuit etc.

A portable device such as a tablet smartphone etc. can be used to access a telecommunication Device such as by accessing a wireless access module of the Device using any desired wireless technology wireless fidelity Wi Fi near field communications NFC and or Bluetooth as described more fully below. When a portable device is in proximity to the Device the presence of the portable device may be detected such as by NFC causing an attempted wireless communication between the portable device and the wireless access module. The attempted wireless communication may also by via NFC but may also be by a different wireless protocol or technology such as Wi Fi. The portable device may provide various security information to the wireless access module that may be verified before access to the Device is granted.

If the portable device is verified authorized it may establish wireless communications with the Device through a wireless communication element of the access module. Such communications may include receiving an identifier for the Device at the portable device and or providing instructions from the portable device to manage the operations of the Device. Successful communication with the portable device may trigger service activation by the Device at its installation time with a second computer system in the carrier network s central office such as an Optical Line Terminal OLT . The second computer system may also provide instructions to the Device including instructions to add or provision the Device to the network to allow the Device to begin carrying network traffic.

In this manner the systems and methods of the present disclosure allow for simplified faster and more cost effective management of Devices of a telecommunications network located out in the field. Management is especially simplified for Devices that are located in hard to access areas such as up on poles in towers buried underground etc.

The portable device illustrated in generally comprises a power source an input output user interface element a processor memory a display a Global Positioning System GPS or other component for determining location of the portable device and a wireless system all coupled together over a logical and physical interconnect or bus . The logical and physical bus allows each of the connected elements to communicate directly or indirectly with each other. The power source can be a direct current DC power source such as a battery an alternating current AC power source such as an AC to DC adapter or any other power source. The input output user interface element can be one or more of a keypad a microphone a speaker a touch pad a pointing device a trackball a touchscreen or any other way of entering commands on and or communicating with a cellular phone tablet computer a laptop computer a PDA or the like.

The wireless system is a communicating element that allows the portable device to communicate wirelessly over for example connection shown in . The wireless system may for example may comprise a radio RF system including elements such as an antenna a radio receiver a radio transmitter or a radio transceiver controllers logic a dedicated processor etc. to allow the portable device to communicate using various wireless technologies or standards such as Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi near field communications NFC Bluetooth etc.

The portable device may be a dedicated device for use as part of the system or may be a general purpose device such as a laptop computer cellular phone tablet computer etc. operating a program or application as discussed below. Accordingly the processor can be any general purpose or specific purpose digital or analog processor capable of executing instructions contained in the memory . The memory can be a memory module a memory system having a number of memory elements a distributed memory system having multiple modules located at different locations or any other type of memory suitable for storing software and firmware instructions. The memory can be random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory non volatile memory a removable memory element such as a flash drive or any other type of memory.

In the illustrated exemplary embodiment the processor can execute software stored in the memory to control the operation of the portable device . As an example the memory may comprise an operating system and access management software which may include programs code instructions algorithms passwords key codes logic etc. to allow the portable device to communicate with the access module . The access management software can be implemented in a number of ways including for example as an executable application that is stored on and that runs on the portable device . The access management software can be stored and transported on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system that can fetch and execute instructions on or for the portable device . In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system.

In an embodiment the processor executes the operating system to control the normal operations of the portable device . The access management software also executed by the processor allows the portable device to communicate with request access to receive data from provide data to and or program modify the access module or the Device . In this manner as more fully described below the portable device can directly manage or can assist in the management of the Device such as out in the field where the Device may be deployed in a telecommunications network.

The access module illustrated in generally comprises a processor memory a wireless system and a power source all coupled together over a logical and physical interconnect or bus . The logical and physical bus allows each of the connected elements to communicate directly or indirectly with each other. In embodiments such as the one illustrated in where the access module is part of the Device various components such as the power source processor memory and or bus may be part of the Device that the access module makes use of for performing the access management functions. In other embodiments one or more of the components illustrated as part of the access module in may be dedicated components for the access module e.g. a separate dedicated access module power source bus processor and or memory .

The power source can be a direct current DC power source such as a battery an alternating current AC power source such as an AC to DC adapter or any other power source desired for a particular implementation. The wireless system is a communicating element that allows the portable device access module to communicate wirelessly over for example connection shown in and or to communicate with other portions of the network . The wireless system may for example comprise a radio RF system including elements such as an antenna a radio receiver a radio transmitter or a radio transceiver controllers logic an addition dedicated processor etc. to allow the portable device access module to communicate using one or more wireless technologies or standards such as Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi near field communications NFC Bluetooth etc. In some embodiments the access module may make use of a single wireless technology or standard while in other embodiments the access module may make use of more than one wireless technology of standard.

The processor can be any general purpose or specific purpose digital or analog processor capable of executing instructions contained in the memory . The memory can be a memory module a memory system having a number of memory elements a distributed memory system having multiple modules located at different locations or any other type of memory suitable for storing software and firmware instructions. The memory can be random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory non volatile memory a removable memory element such as a flash drive or any other type of memory. As an example the memory may comprise an operating system and access management logic which may include programs code instructions algorithms passwords key codes logic etc. to allow the access module to operate

In the illustrated exemplary embodiment the processor of the access module can execute the operating system stored in the memory to control its operation. As an example the memory may include logic for managing wireless access to the Device . The access management logic may include code instructions algorithms passwords key codes etc. that govern what devices may be allowed to communicate wirelessly with the Device how and or when such communications can take place etc. The access management logic of the access module can be implemented in a number of ways including for example as an executable application that is stored on a computer readable medium and that runs on or is operated by the access module .

In an embodiment the processor executes the access management logic to control access to the Device such as by portable device . The processor may execute the access management logic to detect when wireless access to the Device is attempted such as by portable device . The processor may alternatively or additionally operate the access management logic to verify whether an attempted access by portable device is permitted such as by identification numbers key codes passwords etc. If such access is permitted the processor may further operate to allow wireless or other communications with the Device such as by portable device . Communications with the Device may include the portable device requesting access to receiving data from providing data to and or programming modifying the access module or the Device . Additionally communications with the Device may include the portable device bootstrapping or otherwise initiating communications between the Device and a different entity or computer such as a Central Office CO for the network See .

In various embodiments the access module may contain more or fewer components than illustrated in . Moreover the access module may be a separate component remotely located from but in communication with the Device . Access modules that are separate and or self contained hardware device may be implemented for example as a retro fit for existing Devices in the field that do not have wireless communication capabilities.

Similarly an access module that is separate and or remotely located may be implemented for a Device located in a difficult to access location such as on a pole in a tower or underground. For such a Device located in a difficult to access location the access module may be coupled to the Device such as with an Ethernet cable or RS 232 cable connected to an input port of the Device or by other means. The access module may then be installed at a location that is easy for the technician in the field to access and or at a location that allows for NFC communications between the technician s portable device and the access module .

Additionally in some embodiments the Device may have more than one access module not shown . For example if the Device is a cabinet containing multiple different network elements or devices the cabinet may contain separate access modules for each network element. In such embodiments it is not necessary for each access module to be configured the same.

By way of another example using NFC technology a Device may comprise an NFC Tag See configured to be always on seeking or sending signals in an NFC protocol to detect whether a wireless devices such as portable device in its range. If a wireless device such as portable device is found within range the NFC Tag may have sufficient memory and or processing power to validate the portable device for communications with the Device . Alternatively the NFC Tag may upon detecting the portable device cause the access module operating under the same or different wireless communication protocol or technology to activate and validate the portable device as having access to the Device and begin communications with the portable device . In some implementations the NFC Tag may be a separate component from the access module while in other implementations the NFC Tag may be a portion of the access module .

In the embodiment of the Device for example also includes an NFC Tag . The NFC Tag may separately communicate with the portable device using near field communications when the portable device is brought into range of the NFC Tag . In some embodiments the NFC Tag may be an always on tag seeking and or broadcasting signals to try and detect another NFC capable device in range of the NFC Tag . In the illustrated embodiment if the NFC Tag detects an NFC capable device such as portable device in range the NFC Tag causes the access module to begin communications with the portable device either through the NFC communications protocol or through some other wireless communications protocol or technology such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth as may be desired.

The access module may then verify validate or otherwise determine if the portable device is a device permitted contact with the Device . This may be accomplished by any desired method including through the use of pre determined electronic keys located on the portable device matching a username or other identification information about the portable device or a user of the portable device a user of the portable device entering a password determining whether the attempted access is during a time of day during which accesses to the Device is authorized determining whether the portable device is a dedicated device authorized to access the Device etc.

Additionally as illustrated in the first location and second location are in communication with each other such as by exemplary connections and . The connection can be any wired wireless optical or any other bi directional high speed medium speed or low speed communication links as known in the art. Similarly the connection may be any desired communication link known in the art. As an example the connection can be implemented wirelessly to communicate using extensible markup language XML over a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP connection if desired. As another example the connection can be implemented using a wired connection including over the fiber optic network such as GPON or point to point Ethernet and implementing any standard communication protocol as known in the communication arts or a proprietary communication protocol.

The second location can be a telecommunications company central office CO a switching station a public or private network location a network management center or any other location that is typically located so as to communicate with the first location . As an example the first location can be a customer location having the Device and the second location can be a telecommunications company central office hosting an OLT that terminates the fiber optic network and a network management location having a network management system . The network management system can be any network management system that is configured to manage control correspond with and or communicate with the communication device including for the purposes of managing the operation of or initializing network service for the Device .

In an embodiment the network management system can be implemented as a computer device such as a server computer and includes a processor connected to a memory over a logical and physical bus . The logical and physical bus allows each of the connected elements to communicate directly or indirectly with each other. The processor can be any general purpose or specific purpose processor capable of executing instructions contained in the memory . The memory can be a memory module a memory system having a number of memory elements a distributed memory system having multiple modules located at different locations or any other type of memory suitable for storing software and firmware instructions. The memory can be random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory non volatile memory a removable memory element such as a flash drive or any other type of memory.

The logical and physical bus allows each of the connected elements to communicate directly or indirectly with each other. The memory includes a database that can contain one or more elements of information pertaining to the communication device and or an operating system that can be executed by the processor to control and implement the operation of the network management system . In this example the database includes information about a variety of communication devices one of which can be the Device . The information about the communication devices may include a listing of all devices maintained by the network management system may be a list of devices located at the first location may be a list of devices located at one or more locations and may include various data about those communications devices that may be used to help manage the operation of the communication devices. The database can be implemented in a number of ways known to those skilled in the art.

Further the memory can contain one or more elements of information pertaining to more than one communication device . In an embodiment the database can contain information needed to configure the Device for initial service information about the current configuration of the Device and or any other desired information about the Device . The network management system also includes an application programming interface API and or a user interface UI that allows personnel at the second location to control various aspects of the operation of the network management system and the interactions with the Device . Although shown as connected to the logical and physical bus the application programming interface and or user interface can be a separate element or can be outside of the network management system .

In operation once the portable device has been verified and or authorized by the access module the portable device may begin communications with the Device . Such communications may include the portable device providing information to the Device including information needed to update or configure the Device . Additionally such communications may include the portable device receiving information from the Device such as identifier information about the Device as well as statistical or other information about the operation of the Device and or the network traffic through the Device .

Note that in some embodiments the initiation of the communication between the portable device and the access module and the verification authorization of the portable device may be over a dedicated management channel that is a different from the channel used to communicate data between the Device and portable device after communications are established. In other embodiments a single channel may be used for both establishing verifying authorizing the communications and any data transfer.

Further communications between the portable device and the Device may trigger the portable device to establish a simultaneous communication with the network management system . The portable device will use the information it received from the Device to retrieve a logical identification also called a Registration ID in some embodiments for the Device from the network management system . The portable device will provide this logical identification to the Device . The Device identifies itself to the OLT on the carrier s network using the logical identifier to set up a communication path between the Device and the network management system . This process triggers setting up services on the Device . Communications link may be the telecommunications network including a fiber optic network of which the Device is a part. One example of this may occur when the Device is an Optical Network Terminal ONT for terminating the optical fiber at a residential or business customer. Such ONT s are typically attached to the residential or business customer building.

One example of an above operation may be adding an ONT to the network for a new customer. Adding an ONT to the network typically requires communications with the network management system to initialize the network service for the ONT Device . Using the system of a technician operating a portable device may approach the ONT Device . When NFC is used as the wireless technology of choice the NFC tag and or access module of the ONT Device may initiate wireless communications with the portable device . Once the portable device has been verified and or authorized by the NFC tag and access module the portable device may begin communications with the Device . The portable device may gather information about the model serial number etc. of the ONT Device needed to add the ONT to the network by initiating communications with the network management system in this case a central office CO for a telecommunications network in the manner described above.

The above is one example of the operation of the system illustrated in . One skilled in the art would understand that other examples of using the portable device to establish communications with one or more Devices in operation in the field at a first location are possible. One skilled in the art would also understand that the portable device once in communication could be used either alone or in combination with the network management system to perform other operations with or on one more Devices in the field such as troubleshoot repair update upgrade re configure and or gather information from or about the operation of the Device s . All such other examples are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure.

In block a portable device is brought into proximity of the wireless access module . The proximity for a wireless access module may depend on the wireless technology being implemented by the particular wireless access module and or Device . For instance in some embodiments use of NFC protocols to establishing authorizing communications between the portable device and the wireless access module may be desired for added security. In such embodiments the portable device is brought into a close physical proximity to the wireless access module or the NFC portion of the wireless access module such as NFC Tag of in order to enable such NFC communication. In other embodiments where the wireless access module uses other wireless protocols or technologies to establish authorize communications the proximity for the portable device may not use close physical proximity but only enough proximity to enable the required wireless protocol or technology.

In block the availability of wireless communication with the Device is detected. In some embodiments block may comprise the portable device detecting a signal from the Device and or wireless access module . For example as illustrated in the Device may include an NFC Tag either separate from or as part of the wireless access module . In such embodiments a portable device placed within range of the NFC Tag may detect a signal from the NFC Tag and attempt to access the Device wirelessly. Alternatively in some implementations the NFC Tag may detect that an NFC capable portable device is within range and the NFC Tag may attempt to begin wireless communications with the portable device . In other embodiments an NFC Tag may not be used at all and the detecting of block may be performed by the wireless access module itself detecting the presence of the portable device or the portable device detecting the presence of the access module using NFC or any other desired wireless protocol or technology.

Once the availability of wireless communication has been detected in block the access management logic of the access module is activated in block . In some embodiments this logic may be access management logic reside within a dedicated memory of access module as illustrated in . In other embodiments this logic may reside within the NFC Tag or may reside elsewhere such as in a general memory of the Device that is shared with the access module .

In an embodiment as discussed above the purpose of this logic is to provide verification of and or authorization for the portable device attempting to wirelessly communicate with the Device . Such verification and or authorization may be provided in a variety of ways and the remaining blocks of the exemplary embodiment of illustrate one such method. In block security information is provided from the portable device . Providing such information from the portable device may comprise automatically pushing security information residing in the portable device to the access management logic automatically pulling security information residing in the portable device such as by the access module requiring a user of the portable device to enter security information into the portable device such as through user interface illustrated in or a combination of these.

Additionally the security information provided in block may comprise any desired information that would allow the access management logic to determine whether to allow the portable device to communicate with the Device . Exemplary security information could include one or more electronic keys located on the portable device a username serial number other identification information about the portable device and or a user of the portable device a password or other code residing on or entered by a user of the portable device a time of day during which the wireless access is attempted location information about the portable device such as location information from the GPS See of the portable device etc. and or a combination of one or more of these.

In block the provided security information is verified. In some embodiments verifying the provided security information may comprise comparing the provided security information with information residing in the access management logic. In various embodiments the verifying of block may be performed by the NFC Tag by the access module or by a combination of these. For example in one embodiment block may comprise the access management logic of the access module comparing the provided security information of block with information stored in memory of the access module .

Note that in some embodiments the providing security information of block and verifying the security information may comprise multiple iterations of these blocks. Further the various iterations of these blocks may be performed by different components. For example in one embodiment the NFC Tag may automatically receive device identifier information from the portable device and the NFC Tag may verify the device identifier with information stored in or accessible to the NFC Tag . Continuing this example in a second iteration of blocks and the portable device may provide additional security information such as a username for a user of the device to the access module and the access module may verify the username. In various embodiments blocks and may iterate additional times such as by the portable device providing a password to the access module which is then verified by the access module etc.

Once the various iterations of block have been completed the access module will make a determination whether the portable device is authorized in block . The determination may be made using any desired algorithm logic or instructions which may be part of the access management logic or otherwise stored in the memory of the access module or stored in a memory elsewhere on the Device . If the portable device is not authorized in block wireless access to the Device is denied and the exemplary method ends.

If the portable device is authorized in block access to the Device is granted in block . Such grant of access may include allowing the portable device to communicate wirelessly with the Device in order to obtain information from provide information to and or manage the Device . Such grant of access may also include the portable device bootstrapping or otherwise causing a second computer device such as network management system to provide a logical identifier such as a Registration ID for the Device .

For example grant of access to the telecommunications device in block may trigger the portable device to establish a simultaneous communication with the network management system . The portable device may use the information it received from the Device to retrieve a logical identification for the device from the network management system . The portable device may provide this logical identification to the Device . The Device may identify itself to the network management system using the logical identifier to set up a communication path between the Device and the network management system . This process may trigger setting up services on the Device .

In block the portable device obtains information about the Device . Such information may include identification information for the Device such as a model number serial number etc. Such information obtained in block may also include information about the operation of the Device such as configuration information information about the operation of the Device such as amount of traffic error conditions dropped traffic etc. as well as information about the network traffic being handled by the Device .

In block the portable device ends the wireless communication with the Device . In block the user checks if there are more such Devices in the vicinity and if so proceeds to connect to the next such device. For example a determination may be made in block whether an additional Device is located at the first location . In some embodiments the first location may be a tower pole or cabinet containing multiple Devices . In such embodiments the portable device or the network management system may determine whether or not there are additional Devices at the first location . The portable device may make such determination by recognizing or detecting additional NFC Tags or other wireless communications from such additional Devices . In such embodiments if the portable device determines that there are additional Devices in block the method returns to block and wireless access to the additional Device is obtained such as by the exemplary method illustrated in . If no additional Device is detected in block regardless of how detected method ends.

In block the portable device obtains information about the Device . Such information may include identification information for the Device such as a model number serial number etc. and may in some embodiments include information similar to that discussed above with respect to block of .

In block the portable device establishes communication with the computer at a second location and provides the information obtained from the Device . The computer at the second location may be the carrier s network management system at the central office or elsewhere inside the carrier s telecommunication network. The exact nature of the request made by the portable device and the response required from the carrier s telecommunication network if any will be dependent on the context. In the following blocks an example is given of a logical identifier for the Device that is critical in a GPON fiber optic network. However other examples of requests made by the portable device and response s to the portable device are possible as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In block the network management system looks up a logical identifier for the Device based on the information supplied by the portable device . The network management system keeps a database of the Devices in the carrier s network within its scope of control. Once the logical identifier is located it is provided back to the portable device . In this example the logical identifier may be a Registration ID used to identify an ONT Optical Network Terminal an example of a Device with an OLT Optical Line Terminal .

In block the portable device communicates the logical identifier Registration ID and any other information provided by the network management system back to the Device .

In block the Device establishes communications directly with the carrier network such as with a computer at the second location . In an embodiment such communication in block may comprise the Device registering with the carrier s network using the information provided by the network management system . For example in such embodiments this information provided by the network management system may contain the logical identifier Registration ID in a GPON fiber optic network. This identifier is received by the OLT Optical Line Terminal that is located at the central office in the carrier network that may or may not be co located with the network management system as desired. The OLT uses the identifier to match against its own local provisioning to allow a valid and carrier certified Device into the network. A successful registration of the Device triggers the required service provisioning on the Device by the OLT in order to provide end customer services such as data video and voice. In other embodiments establishing communication between the Device and the computer at the second location in block may comprise the exchange of other information between the Device and the computer at the second location including information similar to that discussed above with respect to block and or block of .

In block a determination is made whether an additional Device not shown is located at the first location . For example in some embodiments the first location may be a tower pole or cabinet containing multiple Devices . In such embodiments the portable device may determine whether or not there are additional Devices at the first location . The portable device may make such determination by recognizing or detecting additional NFC Tags or other wireless communications from such additional Devices . In such embodiments if the portable device determines that there are additional Devices in block the method returns to block and the location of the portable device is initialized. If the determination in block is that there are no additional Devices at the first location the method ends.

In the portable device illustrates that it has found or detected a Device at or near the location at which the portable device is located. Detection of the Device may be made as discussed above by any desired means such as by receiving a signal from an NFC Tag or from an access module of the Device . Detecting the Device may also include receiving information identifying the Device especially when more than one device may be present at the first location .

A window may be displayed to the user of the portable device providing a Found Device notification . Additionally information may also be displayed to the user of the portable device that identifies or describes the Device detected. In this example the Found Device is a Device called Device A. The nomenclature Device A refers to a model or type of communication device and is shown for example only. Each Device may be assigned a plain English designator to facilitate communication between users. The user may be able to access further information about the particular Device e.g. Device A and or may cause the portable device to attempt to wirelessly access the Device by actuating the continue button . In other embodiments such wireless access may be automatically attempted by the portable device without need for input from the user.

In the portable device illustrates an alternative embodiment where the portable device has found or detected a number of Devices located within proximity of the portable device at the first location . A window may indicate or provide a list of Devices detected. In such embodiments to proceed with attempting to wireless access one of the devices in the window a user may actuate one of the buttons associated with the selected Device .

In the portable device illustrates that the user has actuated the button in . The icon refers to the Device e.g. Device A that the user has selected for attempted wireless access by the portable device . The display may also and optionally show a series of menu items under the icon . In this example the menu items include Jobs Users Phones Wireless Status Call Data and Network. Such menu items may include information about the selected Device provided by the device itself once wireless communications with the Device has been established such as by the exemplary method of .

Additionally the menu items may also include further menus or items that may be selected or actuated by the user in order to cause the portable device directly manage or assist the network management system to manage the Device . The menu items listed in are exemplary and the particular menu items displayed by vary depending on the Device selected by the user and or the status of the Device e.g. whether the device is already part of the network or needs to be added to the network .

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible that are within the scope of this invention.

