---

title: Hacker security solution for package transfer to and from a vehicle
abstract: A cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service is discussed. The system can have servers having processors, ports, and databases and a security module running on the processors to receive a virtual key and one of a request for package exchange with a vehicle service, data, or both, from a package delivery vehicle. The virtual key has a first shelf life and is used for authentication of communications from the delivery vehicle. The security module can receive a security token having a second shelf life from a user. The security token is used for verification of the user and target vehicle. After the first authentication and in an overlap window of the two shelf lives, the security module can send the one or more commands to an on-board actuation module of the target vehicle to cause an electro-mechanical operation in the target vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635006&OS=09635006&RS=09635006
owner: Continental Intelligent Transportation Systems, LLC
number: 09635006
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150821
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 058 410 filed Oct. 1 2014 and entitled PACKAGE DELIVERY TO AND PICK UP FROM A VEHICLE and is incorporated herein by reference.

Typically shipments are usually sent to the home address of the person concerned. This technology instead delivers packages to or picks up a package inside a customer s vehicle while ensuring safe delivery at the exchange location.

In general a cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service is described. The cloud based system has one or more servers having one or more processors and one or more ports. The servers can be configured to cooperate with one or more databases in the cloud based system. A security module running on the one or more processors can be configured to receive a first virtual key via a first port and one of 1 a request for package exchange with a vehicle service 2 data or 3 both from a first client device associated with a package delivery vehicle. The first virtual key has a first shelf life and can be stored in a first database of the cloud based system. The first virtual key can be used by the security module for a first authentication of communications from the first client device. The security module is further configured to receive a security token associated with both a user and the target vehicle from a second client device associated with the user. The security token has a second shelf life and is used for a verification of the user and target vehicle. The security module is configured to send the security token and one or more commands after the first authentication and in an overlap window of time between the first shelf life and the second shelf life. The security module can be configured to send the security token to any of i a first client device ii one or more application programming interfaces of a server of third party site or iii internally to another module within the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service the security token for verification and one or more commands regarding the vehicle to be executed. The commands regarding the vehicle are either based on the request from the first client device and or initiated by the security module. The security module is configured to send the one or more commands regarding the vehicle over a network to either a local client device or over the network via the one or more application programming interfaces of the server of third party site to an on board actuation module installed in the target vehicle. The on board actuation module can be installed in the target vehicle and in response to the commands can be configured to cause an electro mechanical operation in the target vehicle. The electro mechanical operation may include any of i open up a door a window or a trunk of the target vehicle ii unlock a door or trunk of the target vehicle and iii any combination of these two so that the package delivery service can perform a package exchange with the target vehicle.

In an embodiment a cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service is described. The cloud based system has a security module configured to receive a first virtual key and a command from a package delivery vehicle. The first virtual key which is used for a first authentication of the received command has a first shelf life. The security module is further configured to receive a security token from a user. The security token which is used by a telematics provider for user verification and has a second shelf life. After the first authentication and in an overlap window of the first shelf life and the second shelf life the security module is configured to send the security token and the command to the telematics provider such that after user verification the command is sent to a target vehicle for the package exchange with a vehicle service.

In an embodiment a secure method of package exchange with a vehicle service by a cloud based system between a package delivery vehicle and a target vehicle is described. The method includes receiving a first virtual key and one of 1 a request for package exchange with a vehicle service 2 data or 3 both from the package delivery vehicle. The first virtual key has a first shelf life. The method also includes using the first virtual key for authenticating communications from the package delivery vehicle. The method further includes receiving a security token which has a second shelf life from a user. The security token can be used for verification of the user and target vehicle. After authentication the one or more commands either 1 based on the request from the package delivery vehicle and or 2 initiated by the cloud based system are sent to an on board actuation module of the target vehicle in an overlap window of the first shelf life and the second shelf life.

In an embodiment the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service is based on a geo proximity Vehicle Alert and Access System which is hosted on a cloud based provider site that contains one or more servers and one or more databases. The package exchange with a vehicle service provides a single common end to end solution between one or more delivery services and one or more Original equipment manufacturer OEM telematics systems without additional hardware needing to be installed in the vehicle by using one or more application programming interfaces and using downloadable applications resident in client devices.

In an embodiment the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service hosted on a cloud based provider site contains two or more servers and two or more databases. The package exchange with a vehicle service uses two or more paired virtual keys such as a dual key protection mechanism via secure key matching authentication in order to render hacking any single system s server useless. Additionally the virtual keys are given a shelf life to limit authorized package delivery and subsequent activation of the vehicle s telematics system to be within a specified time window e.g. a predetermined time frame .

In an embodiment the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service hosted on a cloud based provider site contains two or more servers and one or more databases. The package exchange with a vehicle service uses a Global Positioning System GPS based proximity system to control and track the package exchange process to speed up the package delivery and pick up process and to ensure security for the package exchange. The package exchange with a vehicle service also uses a mobile delivery notice to verify the origination of the package delivery order as well as to communicate a successful delivery or pick up of a package.

In an embodiment a method for an alternative package pickup and delivery system includes a number of example steps. The consumer while shopping at a retail store at checkout can be offered to purchase one or more selected products on a retail website. The consumer is offered on the user interface at checkout an alternative package delivery option to have the purchased products delivered to a vehicle using a cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service. The consumer selects the delivery method offered on the user interface labeled as Box2Go Delivery to have the package delivered to the consumer s vehicle. The package exchange with a vehicle service processes the alternative package pickup and delivery option. The purchased products are delivered to the consumer s vehicle s location. The package exchange with a vehicle service opens the consumer s vehicle and ensures the purchased products have been delivered. The package exchange with a vehicle service ensures the consumer s vehicle is closed and locked when the purchased products have been delivered.

In an embodiment a multiple phase security system may be used by a cloud based package exchange service. The multiple phase security system can include one or more servers the servers can have one for more processors and one or more ports and can be configured to cooperate with one or more databases in the system for cloud based system package exchange service. A security module running on the one or more processors can be configured to coordinate the multiple phase security system to enable the package exchange with a target vehicle by enabling access to the target vehicle for the package exchange by remotely opening up the target vehicle. The security module is configured to receive notification of a package exchange request for a first user either i from a server of a package delivery service or ii from a server of a merchant. The security module is configured to look up in a first database in the cloud based package exchange service for one or more contact information listings for the first user and to create one or more notifications. The notifications can include any of e mail notifications SMS text notifications and mobile app notifications to one or more client devices associated with the first user. The one or more notifications request the first user to take action to verify that a package exchange with their one or more target vehicles has indeed been requested by that first user. When there is more than one target vehicles the security module is configured to via a first port to receive confirmation of which of the one or more target vehicles associated with the first user will be the target vehicle used for the package exchange with the package delivery service. The received information can be from any of the following i the client device of the user ii the server of the merchant and iii the server of the package delivery service. The security module can be configured to create at least one or more unique digital encrypted keys with an associated valid duration time period that are specific to the target vehicle in order for the package exchange service to utilize. The security module can also be configured to then send the one or more unique digital encrypted keys to a server of the package delivery service as well as store each unique key sequence of the one or more unique digital encrypted keys or their equivalents in the first database of the package exchange service s cloud in order to later verify an authenticity of the digital encrypted key for the package delivery service. The security module can be configured to receive a first digital encrypted key and a request to any of i locate the target vehicle ii open the target vehicle iii cause an alert of the target vehicle including one or a combination of honking a horn and flashing lights iv lock the target vehicle and v any combination of these four from a client device associated with the package delivery service when the package delivery services wants to locate open cause an alert or lock the target vehicle. The security module can then be configured to check the unique key sequence against the stored information in the first database of the cloud based package exchange service in order to authenticate the digital encrypted key. The security module can be configured to perform a time check against an effective duration of a first unique virtual digital key received from the client device of the package delivery service. If the time check against the effective duration of the virtual digital key indicates that the time period for use is still valid then generating a request to issue a command for either i an onboard telematics module in the target vehicle ii a dongle module installed in the target vehicle or iii a RF module associated with a keyless remote entry function located in the target vehicle to perform an electro mechanical operation in the target vehicle and open up the target vehicle so that the package exchange with the target vehicle can occur.

In an embodiment the 2 phase security system used by the cloud for the package exchange with a vehicle is configured to allow access to a vehicle for a package exchange delivery or pick up that includes i creating a unique encrypted key with a valid duration time period for the package exchange service and then storing the unique key sequence or its equivalent in package exchange service s cloud database to later verify the authenticity of the encrypted key for the package delivery service ii receiving the encrypted key from the package delivery service when the package delivery services wants to open the vehicle and checking the unique key sequence against the stored information in package exchange service s cloud database iii authentication of the access token or a 2nd key received from the OEM telematics provider iv doing a time check against the effective duration of the virtual key from the unique virtual key from the package delivery service and v if the time check against the effective duration of the virtual key is still valid AND the access token or 2nd virtual key from the OEM telematics provider is still valid then generating the request to the OEM telematics cloud to issue a command request accompanied with the access token or 2nd virtual key to an onboard telematics module in a vehicle to open up the target vehicle.

While the design is subject to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. The design should be understood to not be limited to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the design.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific package delivery services named components connections number of databases etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present design. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present design may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods have not been described in detail but rather in a block diagram in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present design. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. The specific details discussed in one embodiment may be reasonably implemented in another embodiment. The specific details may be varied from and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present design.

In general the package delivery to and pick up from a vehicle service facilitates package delivery or pick up from a vehicle at home or work. The package exchange with a vehicle service can be hosted on a cloud based provider site. The package delivery to and pick up from a vehicle service hosted on a cloud based provider site may use an onboard actuation module for commanding the vehicle such as locking and unlocking the vehicle. The package delivery to and pick up from a vehicle service may use an already existing access module installed in the vehicle such as the onboard RF access module a telematics module or may install a dongle as the access module. If the telematics system is used the package delivery to and pick up from a vehicle service may provide a single common end to end solution between two or more package delivery services and two or more Original equipment manufacturer OEM remote access connectivity systems such as telematics systems without additional hardware needing to be installed in the vehicle by using one or more application programming interfaces on the package exchange with a vehicle service in the cloud and using downloadable applications resident in client devices. Alternatively the package exchange with a vehicle service can use a dongle module having a Wi Fi or cellular communication circuit configured to establish a secure communication between the vehicle and the cloud based server associated with the package exchange with a vehicle service. The package exchange with a vehicle service receives two or more virtual keys such as a dual key protection mechanism and uses the dual key protection mechanism via secure key matching authentication in order to render hacking any single system s server useless. Additionally the virtual keys are given a shelf life to limit authorized package delivery and subsequent activation of the vehicle s telematics system to within a specified time window. First the package exchange with a vehicle service uses a virtual key such as a public key for authenticating communications received from the package delivery vehicle which can be matched with the corresponding private key for authentication. The virtual key can be made unique in space assigned only to a vicinity of the location of package transfer and time valid only for a limited window of time around the date time of transfer and can be recycled or even never used again when expired. Second the package exchange with a vehicle service can also receive a security token from the user of the target vehicle. The security token can be encrypted and can be provided to the user 1 by the telematics provider to a client device of the user and can be used by the telematics provider for user and target vehicle verification 2 by the on board dongle module through the client device of the user or 3 by the onboard RF access module through the client device of the user. The package exchange with a vehicle service provider can only receive an encrypted security token and thus does not receive and may not store the user credentials for the OEM telematics systems in its databases. The encrypted security token is provided by the package exchange with a vehicle service provider on behalf of the user to the telematics provider or the package delivery systems to provide authentication. In general only encrypted data is transmitted from the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service and i the applications resident in client devices ii the package delivery systems and iii the OEM telematics systems. The package exchange with a vehicle service uses a GPS based proximity module to control and track the package exchange process in order to speed up the package delivery and pick up process and to ensure security for the package exchange. The package exchange with a vehicle service also uses a mobile delivery notice to verify the origination of the package delivery order as well as to communicate a successful delivery or pick up of a package. The package exchange with a vehicle service picks up or delivers a package to wherever vehicle is parked including the service can deliver package to or pick up package from a rental car while on business trip. See for a block diagram overview of an embodiment of the package exchange with a vehicle service hosted on a cloud based and some of its features including i process connectivity to multiple platforms ii built in privacy and security and iii a vehicle awake and alert system via proximity .

Example processes for and apparatuses to provide an automated process workflow for the entire cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service are described. The following drawings and text describe various example implementations of the design. and illustrate example environments to implement the concepts.

The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can be implemented in software hardware electronics and any combination of both and when one or more portions of the system are implemented in software then that software is tangibly stored in an executable format on the one or more non transitory storage mediums to be executed by a processing component.

In an embodiment a dongle including a software application is configured to provide a new intelligence in a vehicle s navigation. The dongle application leads the way to an intelligent and expanded use of navigation data to control other vehicle systems. Additional hardware may be installed in the target vehicle to assist in the delivery operation. The dongle may be a small piece of hardware that attaches to the vehicle in order to enable additional functions.

An alternative package pickup and delivery system is discussed. The system includes a cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service that is hosted on a cloud based provider site one or more package delivery entity systems such as FedEx having both a package delivery website as well as one or more package delivery vehicles with client devices having a delivery application resident in each client device. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service is configured to have Wi Fi or cellular communications to the dongle module in order to exchange information including GPS coordinates of the vehicle and to cause electromechanical actions within that vehicle including unlocking doors opening windows opening trunks closing trunks turning engine on turning engine off opening and closing a sunroof or moon roof. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service is hosted on a cloud based provider site that contains one or more servers and one or more databases. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service is coded to utilize a protocol including HTTP to engage in a request and response cycle with either i a mobile device application resident on a client device of the user ii a web browser application resident on the client device of the user customer or iii both. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has one or more routines to automate the package delivery. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has one or more open application programming interfaces to standardly exchange information between the two or more package delivery entity systems. See for an example class diagram of an embodiment of an application programming interface for the alternative package delivery method. A hardware module such as a dongle module in the vehicle then causes electromechanical actions within that given vehicle in order to allow the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to access a plurality of different kinds of vehicles manufactured from a number of different manufactures. An example dongle module may cooperate with or be part of a navigation system in the vehicle. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has a security module scripted to establish a communication link with a communication terminal of the package delivery entity systems sites via a communication network. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has an additional security module scripted to exchange information with a delivery application on a client device in order to send or receive information from a package delivery person. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has an additional security module for communicating to a user of the target vehicle having a package delivered to that vehicle which is scripted to exchange information with a mobile application or desktop application on a client device of the user customer. The vehicles include but are not limited to automobiles trucks vans motorcycles and other similar transportation mechanisms.

 1 The User uses either a mobile application on their client device e.g. a mobile phone or accesses a retailer s website via a browser on a desktop application on their client device. The retailer s website collects order information including the products selected. The client device submits order and shipping information via the mobile application to the retailer s website and in the case of delivering to a vehicle the order includes the vehicle VIN. The user interface of the retailer s website offers the alternative delivery destination of the consumer s user s vehicle as a delivery destination. Note the retailer s website user interface may show the alternative delivery destination of the consumer s user s vehicle and an additional monetary charge may be associated with this alternative delivery destination. The additional monetary charge may be charged on a per delivery instance basis or based on a subscription basis.

 2 The retailer s website sends shipping information to the package delivery entity system such as FedEx. The shipping data can include the customer user data.

 3 The package delivery entity system sends confirmation including Tracking Number to the User customer on their client device application or . shows the mobile application on a mobile device of the user .

 4 The package delivery entity system sends a notification to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service including Tracking Number and VIN via the standardized open application programming interface. The notification including the shipping Tracking Number and VIN are stored in the databases of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service .

 5 The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends a notification to either the mobile application or the desktop application on their client device and confirms with the User their desire to have a package shipped to their vehicle with the Tracking Number and VIN for the package delivery. The confirmation notice also acts as a security mechanism to ensure that the user did in fact elect to have a package delivered to their vehicle .

 6 After the first notification the User can supply a response into either the mobile application or the desktop application on their client device to send permission to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service. In response to the second notification the user may supply a second confirmation including a virtual key or a security token of the vehicle. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has a multiple phase such as a two phase verification mechanism involving two security keys. The cloud based infrastructure is scripted to validate authorization for the package delivery to a registered owner s vehicle. The source of initiating the request to open up the car is verified twice as the first virtual key coming along with a request from a package delivery system or a package delivery vehicle associated with the package delivery system is verified. Also a second car actuation security token such as a second virtual key is coming from the client device associated with the user. The second virtual key can be a rolling security key of a Body Control Module BCM of the target vehicle of the customer.

 7 After the package arrives in the same city the package delivery entity system s delivery person uses the package delivery application in their client device to send the Tracking Number to the package exchange with a vehicle service in order to obtain the vehicle s information including its current location information. shows a package delivery application on the client device of the delivery person .

Upon approaching the target vehicle an application in the client device of the package delivery person can send a request to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to wake up the dongle module of the target vehicle by either automatically detecting a close proximity by the first threshold distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle or can be prompted by the package delivery person to send the request. Alternatively the distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle can independently be monitored by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service and the request can be sent without package delivery person s involvement. The dongle module may be in a sleep mode as this prevents battery drain when vehicle is not in use and thus the dongle module needs to be sent a wake up notice. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service via the one or more application programming interfaces sends one or more wake up requests to the dongle module to wake up the vehicle. Alternatively a GPS based proximity module in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can calculate the distance between the delivery vehicle and the target vehicle and send the wake up message. In an embodiment the wake up message can be initiated either manually by the package delivery person or automatically by a GPS based proximity module in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service. In an example the dongle module may not drain battery power or may drain very little battery power thus may not go to sleep. In such case the waking up step can be omitted

 8 After step 6 the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has tracked the vehicle s location and sends it out upon a request from the package delivery person.

Additionally the distance between the GPS coordinates of the package delivery vehicle having a delivery application resident in a client device in the delivery vehicle and the target vehicle s GPS coordinates as periodically received from the dongle module is monitored and compared by a GPS based proximity module in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service.

 9 After the package delivery entity system s delivery person approaches the vehicle a request is sent to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to blink the hazard lights and open the trunk.

A GPS based proximity module or a security module in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service will also send a request via the one or more application programming interfaces to the dongle module to cause a localized alert in the target vehicle so that the vehicle can blink the vehicle s lights and honk its horn to alert the package delivery person directly to the target vehicle s location see for example in order to save time and aid in locating the target vehicle within rows of parked cars. Alternatively the request can be initiated by the client device of the package delivery vehicle or the client device of the package delivery person. This ensures the designated target vehicle is identified properly and increases efficiency of delivering the package.

 10 The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service verifies the request and blinks the hazard lights and or unlocks the target vehicle including the trunk.

As discussed before sending the functional commands including lock unlock doors and give an alert to the target vehicle of the customer the GPS based proximity module or a security module in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service receives at least two virtual verification keys a first virtual verification key from the client device associated with the package delivery vehicle and a second virtual verification key from the client device associated with the customer. The first virtual verification key can be given a first shelf life and the second virtual verification key can be given a second shelf life such that sending of the functional commands stay within an overlap window of time between the first shelf life and the second shelf life.

Optionally the GPS based proximity module waits for a confirmation from the delivery application that the package delivery person has located the target vehicle. Then the GPS based proximity module composes a correct request command and sends the request via the one or more application programming interfaces to the dongle module in the vehicle to open the trunk of the vehicle or some other electro mechanical actuation of a window or sunroof of the vehicle.

 11 After placing the package in the target vehicle e.g. a trunk of the target vehicle and closing the doors including the trunk the package delivery entity system s delivery person sends a delivery completion confirmation to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service. Alternatively the package delivery person instead of placing a package may retrieve a package from the target vehicle.

 12 The package delivery entity system s delivery person optionally sends a confirmation to the package delivery entity system .

 13 After 11 the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service polls the status of the vehicle. In fact after receiving a confirmation of the completion of package transfer from the package delivery application in the package delivery person s client device the GPS based proximity module in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can receive GPS coordinates from the package delivery application in the package delivery person s client device and resume monitoring the package delivery vehicle. The GPS based proximity module performs distance monitoring to recognize when the package delivery person is departing and then is scripted to verify that the target vehicle is locked and to avoid the package delivery person leaving an unlocked vehicle. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service polls the lock status of the target vehicle by sending a request to the dongle module.

 14 Dongle responds with the lock door status open closed . If door lock status is not confirmed locked the GPS based proximity module in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends a request via the one or more application programming interfaces to the dongle module in the vehicle to close and lock the vehicle s doors trunk. This feature improves security to insure the vehicle is locked after departure and is not left unlocked.

Note the onboard dongle module in the target vehicle of the customer can be configured to communicate with the GPS based proximity module and or the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service through the Wi Fi or cellular communications to receive the functional electro mechanical commands including lock unlock doors give an alert and turn engine on off. The dongle module can have a key fob simulator such that it can include an RF circuitry of a key fob and can be configured to perform the functional electro mechanical commands by transmitting RF signals that include the functional commands to a Body Control Module BCM of the target vehicle of the customer.

The GPS proximity module is scripted to perform multiple actions via the dongle module including i waking up a vehicle ii facilitating for the electro mechanical operations in the vehicle to occur such as unlocking locking doors opening closing windows opening and unlocking closing and locking a trunk opening closing sunroof and iii detecting when the package delivery vehicle is at a certain distance away from the target vehicle then the vehicle should become secure at that point.

 15 The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends a delivery confirmation notice to the User.

In an example the dongle module can have a key fob simulator such that it has a circuitry including the RF circuitry of a key fob and additionally is capable of executing an algorithm to generate rolling security keys of the Body Control Module. The dongle module can be taught as an extra key fob. The teaching of the dongle module as an extra key fob can be automated and performed by receiving commands via Wi Fi or cellular communications from the security module or the GPS based proximity module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service. After being taught the current rolling security key can be stored in the dongle module. Upon receiving the functional electro mechanical commands the dongle module can generate the next rolling security key based on the current rolling security key to be transmitted along with the functional commands to the Body Control Module.

Alternatively in an example e.g. for security reasons the current rolling security key may not be stored in the dongle module and can be transmitted to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service and or transmitted to a client device of the user and can be stored in the client device of the user and or stored in a database associated with the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service such that the security module or the GPS based proximity module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends the functional command and the stored rolling security key to the dongle module. Upon receiving the functional commands and the rolling security key the dongle module generates the next rolling security key based on the current rolling security key to be transmitted along with the functional commands to the Body Control Module. In an example the next rolling security key can be generated by the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service such that the security module or the GPS based proximity module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends the functional command and the next rolling security key to the dongle module to be transmitted along with the functional commands to the Body Control Module.

In an example the dongle module can transmit e.g. using Bluetooth the current rolling security key of the Body Control Module to a client device of the user which the user can transmit the current security key as the security token to the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to be used for verification of the user and target vehicle.

In an embodiment the actuation module of the target vehicle is a dongle module. In an example when a rolling security key of the Body Control Module is generated the current rolling security key is transmitted to the cloud based system to be stored in a Box2Go account corresponding to the user and the target vehicle. The generated current rolling security key is also transmitted to the client device of the user. When a user requests a delivery to the target vehicle then the current rolling security key is sent by the client device of the user to the cloud based system the rolling security key is matched with the rolling security keys in Box2Go accounts of the cloud based system for user and target vehicle verification. The commands sent by the cloud based system also includes the current rolling security key which can be matched with by the dongle module with its rolling security key for authentication of the commands. The current rolling security key of the Body Control Module can be assigned a shelf life by the cloud based system.

In an embodiment the actuation module of the target vehicle is a telematics module. The GPS based proximity module of the cloud based system obtains at least two virtual verification keys one from an OEM telematics provider and another from a package delivery service provider before sending a command to the target vehicle . The virtual verification keys are given a shelf life such that sending of the command to unlock the door including the trunk of the target vehicle the target vehicle stays within a predetermined time frame.

The alternative package pickup and delivery system is discussed. The system includes a cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service that is hosted on a cloud based provider site one or more package delivery entity systems such as FedEx having both a service website as well as one or more delivery vehicles with client devices having a first delivery application resident in each client device and one or more OEM remote access connectivity systems such as OnStar that are configured to have communications between the cloud and a vehicle in order to exchange information including GPS coordinates of the vehicle and interact with the vehicle s on board intelligence system such as an on board telematics module to cause electromechanical actions within that vehicle including unlocking doors opening windows opening trunks closing trunks opening and closing a sunroof or moon roof. Thus the on board intelligence system may cause the opening closing of those mechanical portions of the car vehicle. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service is hosted on a cloud based provider site that contains one or more servers and one or more databases including the cloud based server that cooperate with one or more databased to store the data and reference information needed to control and track the package exchange process to speed up the package delivery and pick up process and to ensure security for the package exchange process. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service is coded to utilize a protocol including HTTP to engage in a request and response cycle with either i a mobile device application resident in a client device ii a web browser application resident in the client device or iii both. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service has one or more routines to automate the package to and from vehicle delivery. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service has one or more open application programming interfaces to standardly exchange information between the servers of two or more package delivery sites and or the servers of two or more OEM remote access connectivity systems such as an OEM telematics system. See for an example class diagram of an embodiment of an application programming interface for the alternative package pickup and delivery system. The telematics systems are configured to have wireless communications between a server in the cloud and a given vehicle. A hardware module such as a telematics module in the vehicle then causes electromechanical actions within that given vehicle in order to allow the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service to access a plurality of different kinds of vehicles manufactured from a number of different manufactures. An example telematics module may cooperate with or be part of a navigation system in the vehicle. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service has a security module scripted to establish a communication link with a communication terminal of either or both of the telematics systems or the package delivery sites via a communication network. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service has an additional security module scripted to exchange information with a delivery application on a client device in order to send or receive information from a delivery person. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service has an additional security module for a user of the target vehicle having a package picked up or delivered to that vehicle which is scripted to exchange information with a mobile application or desktop application on a client device. The package may be a retail shop item flowers perishables tobacco and alcohol postal letters food or other consumable items and other similar deliverable items. The vehicles include but are not limited to automobiles trucks vans motorcycles and other similar transportation mechanisms. The OEM remote access connectivity systems can include manufactures such as Tesla Motors who have backend servers that directly communicate with a telematics module in the vehicle. An onboard actuation module in the target vehicle may be one of i a telematics module installed in the target vehicle or ii a dongle module having a Wi Fi or cellular communication circuit configured to establish a secure communication with the cloud based server and an electro mechanical activation circuit configured to cooperate with a fault and diagnostic module installed in the target vehicle.

 1 The User customer uses either a mobile application on their client device e.g. a mobile phone or accesses a retailer s website via a browser on a desktop application on their client device. The retailer s website collects order information including the products selected. The client device submits order and shipping information via the mobile application to the retailer s website in the case of delivering to a vehicle the shipping information includes the vehicle VIN. The user interface of the retailer s website offers the alternative delivery destination of the consumer s user s vehicle as a delivery destination. Note the retailer s website user interface may show the alternative delivery destination of the consumer s user s vehicle and an additional monetary charge may be associated with this alternative delivery destination. The additional monetary charge may be charged on a per delivery instance basis or based on a subscription basis.

 2 The retailer s website sends shipping information to the package delivery entity system such as FedEx. The shipping data can include the customer user data.

 3 The package delivery entity system sends confirmation including Tracking Number to the User customer on their client device application or . show the mobile application on a mobile device of the user as well as the desktop application on a desktop laptop device of the user .

 4 The package delivery entity system sends a notification to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service including Tracking Number and VIN via the standardized open application programming interface. The notification including the shipping Tracking Number and VIN are stored in the databases of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service .

 5 The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends a notification to either the mobile application or the desktop application on their client device and confirms with the User their desire to have a package shipped to their vehicle with the Tracking Number and VIN for the package delivery. The confirmation notice also acts as a security mechanism to ensure that the user did in fact elect to have a package delivered to their vehicle .

 6 The User supplies a response into either the mobile application or the desktop application on their client device to send permission User name and Password for the telematics system module such as OnStar to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The User name and Password for the telematics module of the target vehicle can be sent encrypted such that the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service may not discover it. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has a multiple step such as a two phase verification mechanism. The cloud based infrastructure is scripted to validate authorization for the package delivery service to a registered owner s vehicle. The source of initiating the request to open up the car is verified twice as a delivery order key coming from a package delivery entity is verified to match the initial request coming from the package exchange with a vehicle service as well as the car actuation virtual key coming from the telematics system which both are verified to match the initial request coming from the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can tentatively propose a data and time frame for the alternative package delivery to the customer See on block diagrams and of embodiments of the multiple paired virtual keys and security authorization notices used by the package exchange with a vehicle service. 

The 2 phase security system to allow access to a vehicle for a package exchange delivery or pick up may include the topics of i creating a unique encrypted first virtual key with a valid duration time period for the package delivery service and then storing the unique first key sequence or its equivalent in package exchange cloud database in order to later verify the authenticity of the encrypted first key for the package delivery service ii receiving the encrypted unique first virtual key from the package delivery service when they want to open the vehicle and checking the unique first key sequence against the stored information in package exchange cloud database iii authentication of the access token or a 2nd virtual key received from the OEM telematics provider iv doing a time check against the effective duration of the unique first virtual key received from the package delivery service and v if the time check against the effective duration of the unique first virtual key is still valid AND the access token or 2nd virtual key from the OEM telematics provider is still valid then issuing a command request accompanied with the access token or 2nd virtual key to the OEM telematics provider to open up the target vehicle.

The details from the package delivery entity system associated with the delivery key have to match the details of the initial request submitted by the package exchange with a vehicle service and are then sent over to the package delivery entity system . Likewise the details associated with the car actuation key from the from telematics entity system have to match the details of the initial request submitted by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service and are then sent over to the telematics entity system . The package to and from the vehicle service cloud system stores these details in a database tracks the expected delivery vehicle and knows the location of the target vehicle and after determining its proximity is close then the virtual key will allow for the unlocking of the vehicle .

 7 After the package arrives at the same city the package delivery entity system s delivery person uses the package delivery application in their client device to send the Tracking Number to the package exchange with a vehicle service in order to obtain the vehicle s information including its current location information. show a package delivery application on the client device of the delivery person .

 8 The package exchange with a vehicle service in the cloud sends a request via the one or more open application programming interfaces to the OEM backend of the telematics entity system for the vehicle s current GPS location information using its VIN. See on embodiments of the GPS based control and tracking mechanisms used for delivery to or pick up from the vehicle. 

 9 The telematics system OEM backend site communicates with the vehicle s navigation system and sends back the vehicle location information from the vehicle s navigation system via the one or more open application programming interfaces to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service stores this information in its database.

 10 The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service responds to the package delivery application in the client device of the delivery person with the target vehicle s location information. In an embodiment the GPS coordinates of the target vehicle may not be sent to the package delivery application in the client device of the delivery person and the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service may solely track the distance between the delivery vehicle truck and the target vehicle car .

 11 Upon approaching vehicle the package delivery application in the client device of the delivery person can send a request to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to wake up the vehicle by either automatically detecting a close proximity by the first threshold distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle or can be prompted by the delivery person to send the request. Alternatively the distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle can independently be monitored by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service and the request can be sent without delivery application or delivery person involvement. The vehicle s telematics module may be in a sleep mode as this prevents battery drain when vehicle is not in use and thus the vehicle s telematics module needs to be sent a wake up notice. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service via the one or more application programming interfaces sends one or more wake up requests to the telematics system OEM Backend in order for the telematics system OEM Backend to wake up the vehicle . Alternatively the GPS based proximity control routine in the GPS proximity module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can calculate the distance between the delivery vehicle and the target vehicle and send the wake up message. In an embodiment the wake up message can be initiated either manually by the delivery person or automatically by the GPS based proximity control routine in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service .

Additionally the distance between the GPS coordinates of the delivery vehicle having the delivery application resident in a client device in the delivery vehicle and the target vehicle s GPS coordinates as periodically fed back by the telematics system OEM Backend is monitored and compared by a GPS based proximity control routine in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service .

 11A The GPS based proximity control routine in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service via the one or more application programming interfaces sends one or more wake up requests to the telematics system OEM Backend to wake up the target vehicle as the package delivery e.g. FedEx truck arrives near the target vehicle . However without the advanced sequence of wake up requests the vehicle telematics control may be in sleep mode and a delivery driver might be forced to wait 10 minutes or more to unlock the door. This wake up control ensures that an Unlock Vehicle command will execute immediately when the package delivery truck arrives since the vehicle is awake. In order to prevent a delay due to in vehicle power saving mode the vehicle s telematics module is sent a command e.g. send your GPS coordinates to execute the command before the package delivery truck arrives at the location of the target vehicle to keep the target vehicle awake so that the target vehicle respond immediately to a command to unlock the door see for example command of . This improves productivity since the vehicle can be opened immediately when the package delivery truck arrives since the vehicle is awake and ready to accept commands. Note in an example for security cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service will grant access to the vehicle only once. Subsequent requests will not unlock the vehicle even if correct virtual key and valid time window are present.

 11B A GPS based proximity control routine in GPS based proximity module the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service will also send a request via the one or more application programming interfaces to the telematics system OEM Backend to send a command to cause a localized alert in the target vehicle so that the vehicle can blink the vehicle s lights and honk its horn to alert the delivery driver directly to the target vehicle s location see for example command of and command of in order to save time and aid in locating the target vehicle within rows of parked cars. Alternatively the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service itself can be scripted to send a command directly to the vehicle s telematics module to blink lights and honk its horn to alert delivery driver directly to vehicle s location. This ensures the designated target vehicle is identified properly and increases efficiency of delivering or picking up of the package.

 12 Optionally the GPS based proximity control routine of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service waits for a confirmation from the package delivery application that the vehicles driver has located the target vehicle . The GPS based proximity control routine composes a correct request command and sends the request via the one or more application programming interfaces to the telematics system OEM Backend to send a command to the intelligent vehicle s telematics module in the vehicle to open the trunk of the vehicle or some other electro mechanical actuation of a window sunroof or other opening to a secure compartment of the target vehicle for placement of the package.

 13 Upon opening trunk the package delivery person picks up or stores the package into the vehicle and closes the trunk. Optionally the delivery person can send a notification of delivery or pickup to the package delivery system .

 14 The package delivery entity system s delivery person sends confirmation of the package delivery pickup and the securing of the target vehicle via the delivery application on the client s device to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . Alternatively the delivery application on the client s device of the delivery person can be configured to monitor for the confirmation sent by the package delivery person to the package delivery system and automatically send a package delivery pickup confirmation to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service .

 15 After receiving a confirmed delivery of the package from the package delivery application in the delivery person s client device the GPS based proximity control routine in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can receive GPS coordinates from the delivery application in the delivery person s client device and resume monitoring the delivery person . The GPS based proximity control routine performs distance monitoring to recognize when the delivery driver is departing and then is scripted to verify that the target vehicle is locked and to avoid the delivery person leaving an unlocked vehicle. The package exchange with a vehicle service in the cloud system checks the lock status of the target vehicle by sending a request to the telematics system s OEM backend .

 16 As described above the GPS based proximity control routine in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends a request via the one or more application programming interfaces to the telematics system OEM Backend to send a command to the intelligent telematics module in the vehicle to check the lock status and to confirm the vehicle s doors trunk is both closed and locked. The telematics system s OEM backend also responds back with a lock confirmation that the vehicle s doors trunk is both closed and locked or does not confirm lock status. If not confirming the GPS based proximity control routine in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends a request via the one or more application programming interfaces to the telematics system OEM backend to send a command to the intelligent vehicle s telematics module in the vehicle to close and lock the vehicle s doors trunk. This feature improves security to insure the vehicle is locked after departure and is not left unlocked.

Note the GPS proximity application is scripted to perform multiple actions including i waking up a vehicle via its associated telematics system ii facilitating for the electro mechanical operations in the vehicle to occur such as unlocking locking doors opening closing windows opening and unlocking closing and locking a trunk opening closing sunroof and iii detecting when the delivery or pick up of the package in vehicle is at a certain distance away from the target vehicle then the vehicle should be secure at that point. In one embodiment the GPS based proximity control routine in the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service performs the above actions by sending requests via the one or more application programming interfaces to the telematics system OEM Backend .

 17 The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends delivery confirmation to the User on either the mobile application or the desktop application on their client device.

 18 The package delivery entity system optionally sends a delivery notice message e.g. email to the User .

A cloud based system includes a cloud based server which has a GPS based proximity module to control and track a package exchange process to speed up a package delivery and pick up process and to ensure security for the package exchange process.

Alternatively a geo proximity vehicle alert and access system for at least one of i package delivery to a vehicle and ii package pickup from the vehicle includes a cloud based server having at least one processor to execute instructions associated with and a GPS based proximity module to control and track multiple actions. The actions can be performed by the modules in the following 

1 Module A which is configured to monitor and track a GPS based proximity between a client device associated with package carrier s vehicle and a target vehicle . The client device has an application resident in the client device to establish communication with the cloud based server and transmit its current GPS coordinates and

2 Module B which is configured to initiate a request to an on board intelligent control system installed in the target vehicle to perform electro mechanical operations in the target vehicle based on the monitored GPS based proximity between the client device associated with package carrier s vehicle and a target vehicle . The on board intelligent control system can be a Body Control Module BMC of the target vehicle .

In an embodiment the target vehicle s on board actuation module is a telematics module that is configured to 1 send data including GPS coordinates of the target vehicle to an OEM telematics provider and 2 receive one or more commands from the OEM telematics provider . The server of the OEM telematics provider is configured to send the GPS coordinates of the target vehicle to the cloud based server with the GPS based proximity module. Also the one or more processors in the cloud based server site are configured to calculate the first threshold distance and then issue a request to a server of the OEM telematics provider to issue the command to wake up the telematics module of the target vehicle by pinging the telematics module with intervals shorter than a predefined idle time before going to sleep of the telematics module. As an example the idle time before going to sleep of the on board Telematics module of the target vehicle can be between 5 to 20 minutes e.g. 10 minutes .

In an embodiment the target vehicle s on board actuation module is a dongle module that is that is coupled to a fault and diagnostic module installed in the target vehicle of the user and is configured to retrieve diagnostic data including the current GPS coordinates of the target vehicle of the user. The on board dongle module is configured to send the current GPS coordinates of the target vehicle of the user via a Wi Fi or cellular communication to the GPS based proximity module. The on board dongle module may also include a Radio Frequency circuitry of a key fob to communicate with a local client device such as a smart phone or hand held device and is configured to perform the commands by transmitting RF signals that include the commands to a Body Control Module BCM of the target vehicle of the customer where the security token is a rolling security key of the BCM that is included in the transmitted signals and is used by the BMC for verifying the authentication of the commands.

In an embodiment the target vehicle s on board actuation module is an on board RF module having a radio frequency communication circuit configured to establish a secure communication with the security module to receive the commands and the security token via the local client device. The on board RF module includes an RF circuitry of a key fob and is configured to perform the commands by transmitting RF signals.

One or more processors of the cloud bases system may calculate the first threshold distance and then issue a request to the one or more servers of the telematics provider to issue the command to wake up the on board telematics module by pinging the on board telematics module with intervals shorter than a predefined idle time before going to sleep of the on board telematics module. Alternatively a client device of the package delivery vehicle person can calculate the first threshold distance and send a request to the security module of the cloud based system .

The current GPS coordinates of a package delivery vehicle is transmitted from GPS based delivery application resident in a client device associated with a package delivery vehicle. The client device resides 1 in the package delivery vehicle or 2 in a handheld tool that travels with a delivery person of the package delivery vehicle. The GPS based delivery application can transmit the current GPS coordinates of the package delivery vehicle person along with the first virtual key for authentication. The GPS based delivery application is downloadable from a website or otherwise electronically distributed to the client device from a database in the cloud based server. Additionally the GPS coordinates of the target vehicle are transmitted from the telematics module of the target vehicle to the telematics provider and then is transmitted by the one or more servers of the telematics provider via a secure communication to the GPS based proximity module.

The first virtual key is provided by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service using a secure communication to the package delivery system . The package delivery system can supply the first virtual key to a client device in the package delivery vehicle or to a client device of the package delivery person . The first virtual key can be used by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to authenticate commands request data received from the package delivery system package delivery vehicle and package delivery person when the received command request includes the first virtual key. In an example the first virtual key is a public key generated by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service such that only the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service knows an associated private key matching the public key and can authenticate the received command request data including the first virtual key. As described with respect to the GPS coordinates of the package delivery vehicles as well as a wakeup command can be received from the package delivery person package delivery vehicle . In an example the package delivery person uses the package delivery application in their client device to send the Tracking Number and the first virtual key in message to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service in order to obtain the target vehicle s information including its current location information. The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service responds with message to the package delivery application in the client device of the delivery person with the target vehicle s location information.

In an embodiment a cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service includes a cloud based server that has one for more processors and one or more databases as well as a security module running on the one or more processors. The security module is configured to receive a first virtual key and one of 1 a request for the package exchange with a vehicle service 2 data or 3 both from a package delivery application running on the client device associated with a package delivery vehicle . The first virtual key has a first shelf life and is used by the security module for authentication of the communications from a client device associated with the package delivery vehicle . The first shelf life is a first window of time assigned by the security module of the cloud based system to the virtual key . The first shelf life is a security measure of the first virtual key that allows it to be used only inside the first window of time.

Also the security module of the cloud based system can receive a security token associated with both a user and the target vehicle from a desktop application or a mobile application of a client device associated with the user . The security token has a second shelf life and is used by a verification module running on one or more servers of a telematics provider for a verification of the user and target vehicle. The second shelf life is a second window of time assigned by the security module of the cloud based system to the security token . The second shelf life is a security measure of the security token that allows it to be used only inside the second window of time.

Initially the security module of the cloud based system can perform an authentication of the received communications from the package delivery vehicle. After authentication the security module can send the security token and one or more commands 1 based on the request from a client device of the package delivery vehicle person or 2 initiated by the security module of the cloud based system to an on board actuation module of the target vehicle for the package exchange with a vehicle service. The specified window of time is the overlap time between the first shelf life and the second shelf life. In response to the commands the on board actuation module is configured to cause an electro mechanical operation in the target vehicle to any of i open up ii unlock and iii any combination of these two of the target vehicle so that the package delivery service performs a package exchange with the target vehicle.

Alternatively the security token can be a current first rolling security key of Body Control Module BMC of the target vehicle and can be used by the security module to generate a next second rolling security key of the Body Control Module BMC of the target vehicle. After the first authentication and in an overlap window of the first shelf life and the second shelf life the security module can be configured to send via a universal fey fob simulator of a delivery person the next second rolling security key and one or more commands 1 based on the request from first client device or 2 initiated by the security module to the Body Control Module BMC of the target vehicle. After a second authentication of the second rolling security key by the BMC the commands can be executed via the BMC of the target vehicle.

In an embodiment the on board actuation module is an on board telematics module coupled to a network of a telematics provider. In response to a user request and after a user login using user s credentials through the second client device to the telematics provider the telematics provider is configured to provide the security token to the second client device of the user via a first secure communication. Before sending a command on behalf of the user to the telematics provider the security module is configured to send the security token to a server of the telematics provider. The security token is used by a verification module running on one or more servers of a telematics provider to verify the user and target vehicle. In response to receiving the security token and after the verification the telematics provider supplies via a second secure communication a second virtual key to the security module to be used for authenticating further communications from the security module to the telematics provider. The security module is configured to send the second virtual key and the commands to the telematics provider. The one or more servers of the telematics provider perform a second authentication using the second virtual key before sending the commands to the on board telematics module in the target vehicle.

In an embodiment the on board actuation module is an on board dongle module having a Wi Fi or cellular communication circuit configured to establish a secure communication with the security module to receive the commands and the security token from the security module. The on board dongle module includes an RF circuitry of a key fob and is configured to perform the commands by transmitting RF signals that include the commands to a Body Control Module BCM of the target vehicle of the customer. The security token is a rolling security key of the BCM that is included in the transmitted signals and is use by the BMC for verifying the authentication of the commands.

In an embodiment the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service includes a pool of virtual keys that includes one or more public keys and their associated private keys. The pool of virtual keys is in at least one database of the cloud based server. The first virtual key can be a public key from the pool of virtual keys and can be supplied by the security module of the cloud system via a secure communication to a client device of the package delivery vehicle . In an example the first virtual key is provided by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to the package delivery system and then the package delivery system provides the first virtual key to the client device of the package delivery vehicle . Also the client device of the package delivery vehicle can use the first virtual key with each communication to the security module. The security module of the cloud system can use the first virtual key included in the communications from the client device of the package delivery vehicle to authenticate the received communications. Authentication can include matching a public key with an associated private key of the pool of virtual keys. In an example a distinct first virtual key is used for each package transfer and the virtual key is recycled or discarded after the package transfer. In another example and to tighten the security the first virtual key can be made unique in space and time such that it is only valid in a specific window of time and in a specific location of space. For example the first virtual key can be active only between noon and 4 p.m. on a specific day and if the package delivery vehicle is located is specific location of a city.

On or around the day of delivery the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service sends a message to the mobile application or the desktop application of the user and asks the user to confirm the details of delivery or pick up including for example the expected location of the vehicle. The user is also asked to provide a security token supplied by the telematics provider to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The user responds and confirms the delivery or pick up. A positive response from the user acts as a user permission to unlock and open a door of the target vehicle. The user further sends a request along with the private user credentials such as login information and vehicle data to the telematics provider and requests a security token . The telematics provider verifies the user credentials and supplies a security token in a reply message . In an example the security token is encrypted and neither the user nor the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can decode it. After receiving the security token the user sends the security token in a message to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The security token can be used by the telematics provider for user verification. For example when the telematics provider receives a command including the security token the telematics provider uses the security token to verify the user and the account linked with the user and then may send the command to a target vehicle associated with the user account. In another example the telematics provider renews the security token after receiving a command and sends a new security token back to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to be used for user verification in the next communication. In another embodiment the security token is only used once for user verification such that a communication containing only the security token is sent to the telematics provider. In response to receiving the security token and after user verification the telematics provider can supply back a second virtual key such as a public key to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to be used for user verification in future communications.

The cloud based system also includes a GPS based proximity module. The GPS based proximity module can run on the one or more processors of the cloud based system and includes the security module. The GPS based proximity module can control and track a package exchange process can speed up a package delivery and pick up process and can ensure security for the package exchange process. The GPS based proximity module can receive both current GPS coordinates of a package delivery vehicle from a client device of the package delivery vehicle and current GPS coordinates of a target vehicle from the on board actuation module and to monitor the distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle for at least one of package delivery to the target vehicle and package pick up from the target vehicle. After receiving the second virtual key and in the overlap window of the first shelf life and the second shelf life the security module of the GPS based proximity module can send one or more commands to the target vehicle through the actuation module. The commands include 1 to wake up an on board actuation module in the target vehicle while in a close proximity established by a first threshold distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle see for example wake up call point on the timeline of 2 to give an alert from the target vehicle while in a close proximity established by a second threshold distance between the package carrier s vehicle and the target vehicle such that the second threshold distance is shorter that the first threshold distance see for example flash lights honk horn point on the timeline of 3 to unlock a door and or trunk of the target vehicle see for example command on and 4 to lock the target vehicle after receiving a confirmation of the package exchange process from a client device of the package delivery vehicle see for example command on . Locking the target vehicle may also require establishing a fourth separation distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle vehicle see for example lock verification point on the timeline of . The GPS based proximity module is configured to establish the first threshold distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle before initiating a request from the on board intelligent control system in the target vehicle. The first threshold distance may be calculated by the one or more processors based on factors including current traffic data as well as actual distance between the client device and the target vehicle. At least one package can be exchange between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle between unlocking the target vehicle and then locking the target vehicle.

In an embodiment a shelf life is assigned to the security token and or the second virtual key by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service such that it can be assigned in a limited window of time. In another embodiment the telematics provider can assign a shelf life to the security token and or the second virtual key.

Additionally the on board telematics module of the target vehicle is coupled to an intelligent control system in the target vehicle. The security module can send commands to the on board telematics module and to the intelligent control system of the target vehicle via communication with the telematics module in the target vehicle through an OEM telematics provider . The security module provides the second virtual key to the telematics provider such that the one or more servers of the telematics use the second virtual key for authentication of communications from the security module. The commands include waking up the telematics module and performing mechanical actions of locking and unlocking the target vehicle opening and closing doors and giving an alert by the target vehicle . The alert includes one or a combination of 1 activating one or more lights of the target vehicle 2 activating an alarm system of the target vehicle and 3 honking a horn of the target vehicle . In an embodiment the on board telematics module can be coupled to an input port of an on board diagnostics system of the target vehicle. The on board intelligent control system can be a Body Control Module BMC of the target vehicle.

In an embodiment the user can login through a mobile application or a desktop application on a client device of the user to the telematics provider using user s credentials. After login and in response to a user request the telematics provider can provide the security token to the client device of the user via a secure communication.

In an embodiment before sending a command on behalf of the user to the telematics provider the security module of the cloud based system can send the security token to the telematics provider . The security token is used by a verification module of the telematics provider to verify the user and target vehicle . In response to receiving the security token and after the verification the telematics provider supplies via a secure communication a second virtual key to the security module. The second virtual key can be included in communications from the security module to the telematics provider and can to be used by the telematics provider for authenticating communications received from the security module.

Therefore the security module of the cloud based system can send any commands along with the second virtual key to the telematics provider . One or more servers of the telematics provider perform a second authentication using the second virtual key before sending the commands to the on board telematics module in the target vehicle .

Additionally the target vehicle can be sent an unlock command to unlock the target vehicle while in a close proximity established by a third threshold distance that is smaller in a preset amount than the second threshold distance between the package carrier s vehicle and the target vehicle . show the timelines. The one or more processors calculate the first threshold distance through the fourth threshold distance. The point corresponds to the second threshold distance and point corresponds to the third threshold distance that is closer to target vehicle than the second distance. The unlocking includes acquiring an unlocking permission by the GPS based proximity module of the cloud based system by satisfying the third threshold distance as well as satisfying a security measure that the issuing of an unlocking command is occurring only within a preset time window. The GPS based proximity module of the cloud based system is then configured to transmit the command to unlock to the onboard actuation module in the target vehicle which then is coded to unlock one or more of the doors including unlocking the trunk of the target vehicle. The onboard actuation module in the target vehicle may also be coded to cause the opening of a sun roof of the target vehicle .

One or more processors of the cloud based system may calculate the first threshold distance in cooperation with a GPS based proximity control routine in the GPS based proximity module and the calculation is based on factors including current traffic data as well as actual distance between the first client device of the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle. The target vehicle can be unlocked while a close proximity established by a third threshold distance smaller by a preset distance than the second threshold distance between the package delivery vehicle and the target vehicle . Also the one or more processors calculate the third threshold distance and the second threshold distance. The unlocking may include acquiring an unlocking permission by the GPS based proximity module from the user and satisfying the third threshold distance as well as satisfying a security measure that the issuing of an unlocking command is occurring only within a preset time window. Then the GPS based proximity module can transmit the unlock command to the on board actuation module in the target vehicle to unlock one or more of the doors including the trunk of the target vehicle . Alternatively the target vehicle commands of lock unlock alert and wake up can be initiated by a delivery person through a request from the client device of the package delivery vehicle to the security module of the cloud based system .

The GPS based proximity module of the cloud based system can calculate the fourth distance separation threshold with the one or more processors and then send a command to lock the target vehicle while the fourth distance separation threshold between client device associated with the package carrier s vehicle and the target vehicle is satisfied. The locking can include performing a lock verification to check to see if the doors of the target vehicle are indeed locked by the time the fourth distance separation threshold is satisfied. Then if not locked to send a command to the on board actuation module to lock the target vehicle by locking one or more doors of the target vehicle. Locking of the doors can include ensuring the trunk and a sunroof are closed and locked. The lock verification can be performed after the delivery truck has a minimum fourth threshold distance to the target vehicle to make sure delivery person is leaving the area see for example lock verification point on the timeline of .

Additionally the security module of the cloud based system can provide one or more application programming interfaces between the servers of two or more package delivery services and the servers of two or more OEM telematics providers . The cloud based system can also include a first input socket to receive a first notification about a request for a package delivery to or pick up from the target vehicle of a user via the one or more application programming interfaces from a first package delivery service. A second module of the cloud based system can be configured to communicate with a database of the cloud based system to store the first notification including a shipping Tracking Number TN and a Vehicle Identification Number VIN associated with the request and to register the request for the package delivery to or pick up from the target vehicle . The security module of the cloud based system can be configured to upon registering the package delivery to or pick up from request send a second notification to the user via either a mobile application or a desktop application on a client device of the user to confirm with the user a desire to have a package with the shipping TN shipped to or picked up from the target vehicle with the VIN see for example message of and message of . The security module of the cloud based system can also be configured to use the one or more application programming interfaces with the two or more OEM telematics providers to establish wireless communications with an onboard telematics module in the target vehicle . The security module can send a command to a first OEM telematics provider via the one or more application programming interfaces to wake the target vehicle s onboard telematics module when the package carrier s vehicle is in close proximity established by the first threshold distance to a target vehicle matching the VIN see for example message of and message of . The security module can also be configured to send a command to the first OEM telematics provider via the one or more application programming interfaces to unlock the trunk and or doors of the vehicle via the vehicle s onboard telematics module when an indication is received that a delivery person is ready to deliver or pick up the package see for example command of and command of . The security module can further be configured to send a lock command to the first telematics provider via the one or more application programming interfaces to lock the trunk and doors of the vehicle via the vehicle s on board telematics module when the confirmation is received that the delivery person has delivered or picked up the package see for example command of and command of . The security module may send the requests or commands along with either of the second virtual key or the security token such that the telematics provider can use the second virtual key or the security token for authentication of the communication from the security module.

The communications from the package delivery vehicle is authenticated using the first virtual key . The first virtual key is provided by the cloud based system to the client device of the package delivery person such that any communication including receiving data or requests from to the package delivery vehicle or the package delivery person can be authenticated see for example VirtualKey in commands and of . In an example the first virtual key is a public key and the authentication is performed by the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service through matching the public key with an associated private key. Because the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service has provided the first virtual key only the security module knows the associated private key and thus can validate the first virtual key and authenticate the communication. As noted above the first virtual key can be encrypted by the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service before sending and can be received encrypted such that the package delivery system the package delivery vehicle and the package delivery person does not need and cannot decode it.

A security token is received for user and target vehicle verification from a user. The security token has a second shelf life . As described with respect to diagram of a user of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service logs into his her account with a telematics provider on a mobile application or a desktop application and send a request for an access security token . The telematics provider verifies the user account and sends the response with the security token to the user . The security token can be supplied by the telematics provider through a secure communication connection and the security token can be encrypted. Each time the user or the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service on behalf of the user sends a command which includes the security token to the telematics provider the security token can be used by the telematics provider to authenticate the user and a user s vehicle registered by the telematics provider. The user can supply the security token through a secure communication to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can supply a second shelf life to the security token . In an embodiment the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service uses the security token when sending commands to the telematics provider for performing actions on the target vehicle and the telematics provider uses the security token for verification of the user account see for example commands and of . In an example the telematics provider renews the security token after receiving a command and sends the renewed security token to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to be used for user verification in the next communication. In another embodiment the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can send the security token prior to sending any command to the telematics provider . In response to receiving the security token the telematics provider can verify the user account and supply back a second virtual key such as a public key to the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service see for example message in that returns AuthKey . The second virtual key can be used for user verification in future communications see for example AuthKey in commands and of .

One or more commands are sent to be executed by an on board actuation module. After performing the authentication and in an overlap window of time between the first shelf life and the second shelf life the commands are sent to the on board actuation module of the target vehicle . If the telematics system is used the commands are sent along with the security token by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service to the telematics provider. The command is sent in a limited window of time which is an overlap window of the first shelf life associated with the first virtual key and the second shelf life associated with the security token. As described before the telematics provider uses the security token to verify the user account and after verification of the user and the target vehicle sends the command to the target vehicle . As shown in the command can include wake up open or lock the target vehicle. As described before in an embodiment the telematics provider may supply a second virtual key to replace the security token and the second virtual key can be supplied in each communication to the telematics provider and can be used by the telematics provider to verify the user and the user account. In an example the commands are generated based on requests from the package delivery vehicle and or initiated by the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service .

Alternatively the target vehicle may not use any telematics module and instead can use a dongle module. The dongle module can include an RF circuitry of a key fob and can be configured to perform the functional electro mechanical commands by transmitting RF signals that include the functional commands and a valid rolling security key to a Body Control Module BCM of the target vehicle of the customer. The dongle module can have the circuitry of a key fob and additionally can be capable of executing an algorithm to generate rolling security keys of the Body Control Module. The dongle module can be taught as an extra key fob. The security token can be a current first rolling security key of the Body Control Module BMC of the target vehicle that can be sent by the dongle module to a client device of the user.

In an example and for security reasons the dongle module may not keep the current rolling security key and only sends it to the client device of the user and the user sends it as the security toke to the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can send back the current rolling security key and the commands via Wi Fi or cellular communications to the dongle module and the dongle module can use the current rolling security key to generate a next second rolling security key of the Body Control Module BMC of the target vehicle . Only a correct current rolling security key can generate a valid next rolling security key of the BMC. Thus including the current rolling security key with the commands sent via Wi Fi or cellular communications to the dongle module is a method of authenticating the received commands.

In an example the target vehicle may not use any telematics or dongle module and instead can use the current rolling security key of an existing key fob of the target vehicle as the security token . The key fob of the target vehicle can be enabled to transmit its current security key to the client device of the user and the user sends it as the security toke to the security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service . The security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can use the current rolling security key and generate a corresponding next rolling security key. Then security module of the cloud based system for a package exchange with a vehicle service can send the next rolling security key and the commands via Wi Fi or cellular communications to a client device of a package delivery person or a package delivery vehicle. The client device of a package delivery person or a package delivery vehicle can be equipped with a universal key fob and RF circuitry such that it can transmit via RF circuitry the electro mechanical commands and the next rolling security key to the BCM of the target vehicle .

There are multiple time periods and methods described below a customer can select to register with the package exchange with a vehicle service. Upon registering a first database in the one or more databases may be also configured to contain and index information regarding for each user including User ID and password for the package exchange with a vehicle service User name email etc. security questions vehicle VIN vehicle model color and year and other similar information.

When purchasing a new car at the dealership with a telematics system built into the vehicle the following steps are performed i the customer is offered to sign up for the package exchange with a vehicle service ii the customer signs up for the Box2Go service application in the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service using a paper form and the customer downloads the Box2Go mobile app into their client device iii the customer logs in to the Box2Go mobile app at least once to activate the Box2Go service application in the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service. Next the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service automatically tracks the Authentication Key and Refresh Key for the user and stores it as part of the registration.

A customer may register using the Box2Go Application by i using the Box2Go app to sign up ii Box2Go collects the registration information for the telematics system site e.g. OnStar s Backend site from the user and passes it to the telematics system site Box2Go mobile application or the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service does not store this information in the cloud system iii the telematics system site finishes the registration and returns the Authentication Key and Refresh Key and lastly iv the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service stores the Authentication Key and Refresh Key as part of the registration.

When an already existing User registers the Box2Go app collects the username and password from the telematics system site customer Box2Go signs up the customer and the telematics system site returns the Authentication Key and Refresh Key. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service stores the Authentication Key and Refresh Key as part of the registration.

The shopping experience may be as follows. While shopping at a retail store at checkout the customer will i purchase a product on a retail website e.g. Amazon BestBuy eBay etc. ii be offered an option on the user interface to have the purchased items delivered to his car using the Box2Go service application in the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service iii selects the delivery method as Box2Go Delivery to have the package delivered to the vehicle iv optionally selects the expected location of the vehicle to be either work or home and v checks out and places the order with the retailer. The retailer will fulfill the order and prepare the package for delivery and delivers the package with a delivery service provider like FedEx.

The delivery service provider s Box2Go Delivery Process may include use cases with communications via Wi Fi hotspots the telematics solution and blue tooth exchanges between the internal intelligent software in the vehicle itself and the downloaded application resident in the client device. Thus the GPS based delivery application is downloadable or otherwise electronically distributed such as contained in flash drive type of computer readable medium to the client device from a database in the cloud based server.

For packages marked for Box2Go Delivery the delivery service provider initiates a query process for the delivery of the package with the package exchange with a vehicle service in the cloud. The package exchange with a vehicle service cloud verifies the customer information who requested the package delivery in its system and confirms that the customer has the Box2Go service application in the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service available to allow for such a delivery. The package exchange with a vehicle service cloud then sends verification back to the delivery service provider s site that the customer can accept a Box2Go delivery.

Prior to the delivery service provider s route planning the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service sends a push message preferably early in the morning to the customer s cell phone of the Customer requesting confirmation for the vehicle delivery for the package with the Order details. The Customer confirms the vehicle delivery option by sending a message back to the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service. The customer may notice a push message for Box2Go application. Once the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service receives the customer s confirmation for the car delivery the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service will generate a virtual Car Key. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service sends a virtual Car Key to the delivery service provider server. The virtual Car Key is issued with a limited shelf life and will expire even if not used within a defined amount of time such as 4 hours. Note the dual key security protects against if either the virtual Car key or access token are compromised. The limited shelf life expiration protects against if BOTH the virtual Car Key and access token are compromised they are only valid for a limited window of time established by the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service. Thus the security of the vehicle is protected in multiple ways. The delivery service provider system then links the virtual Car Key to the delivery order. The delivery service provider systems are then ready to execute the package delivery to the Customer s vehicle.

The delivery service provider prepares the Box2Go package to be delivered to the customer s car. The delivery service provider plans the delivery route based on either the address selected for Box2Go delivery at the time of check out or the current location of the vehicle. On delivery day the delivery service provider s delivery vehicle looks up the virtual Car Key associated with the order in the Box2Go app. The delivery service provider contacts the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service to get the location of the car. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service then receives the last known location of the car and sends it back to the delivery service provider s Box2Go app. If the current location of the vehicle is in his delivery zone the delivery service provider s system moves ahead with the delivery. If the vehicle to deliver to is not in the delivery zone then that delivery is skipped and marked for differed mail delivery.

While tracking the delivery service provider s delivery vehicle driving toward the delivery location an application in the delivery vehicle can notify the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service of the delivery vehicle s location. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service anticipates the delivery of a package to the car and wakes up the vehicle s system by issuing a command. When the delivery service provider s vehicle approaches near the car like 100 meters the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service automatically alerts the vehicle and the vehicle starts flashing lights and beeps a few times. This helps the delivery service provider s driver to locate the exact vehicle in a parking lot.

To unlock the car once delivery service provider s delivery reaches the car the application used by the delivery person uses the Box2Go app to send an Unlock command. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service intercepts this command and issues an Unlock command to the telematics system site. The telematics system site triggers an unlock request in the car s telematics module by sending this Unlock command to electromechanically unlock a trunk or door of the vehicle.

The delivery person places the package inside the customer s car closes the car door trunk and then uses the Box2Go app to send a lock command. Like above the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service intercepts this command and issues a Lock command to the telematics system site. The telematics system site triggers a lock request in the car s telematics module by sending the lock command.

A confirmation message is sent from the package exchange with a vehicle service to the delivery service provider s server and to the customer on the Box2Go app on the customer s cell phone. The delivery process is completed when the package exchange with a vehicle service destroys the virtual CarKey for the order.

With reference to components of the computing system may include but are not limited to a processing unit having one or more processing cores a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA locale bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

Computing system typically includes a variety of computing machine readable media. Computing machine readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing system and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computing machine readable mediums uses include storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures other software or other data. Computer storage mediums include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . However carrier waves would not fall into a computer readable medium. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computing system such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or software that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system other software and program data .

The computing system may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to USB drives and devices magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures other software and other data for the computing system . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system other software and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system other software and program data . Operating system other software and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. The microphone may cooperate with speech recognition software. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display monitor or other type of display screen device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computing devices may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and other output device which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers client devices such as a remote computing device . The remote computing device may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing system . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. A browser application may be resident in the computing device and stored in the memory.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment other software depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computing device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computing devices may be used.

As discussed the computing system may include a processor a memory a built in battery to power the computing device an AC power input potentially a built in video camera a display screen a built in Wi Fi circuitry to wirelessly communicate with a remote computing device connected to network.

It should be noted that the present design can be carried out on a computing system such as that described with respect to . However the present design can be carried out on a server a computing device devoted to message handling or on a distributed system in which different portions of the present design are carried out on different parts of the distributed computing system.

Another device that may be coupled to bus is a power supply such as a battery and Alternating Current adapter circuit. As discussed above the DC power supply may be a battery a fuel cell or similar DC power source that needs to be recharged on a periodic basis. The wireless security module may employ a Wireless Application Protocol to establish a wireless communication channel. The wireless security module may implement a wireless networking standard such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard IEEE std. 802.11 1999 published by IEEE in 1999.

Examples of mobile computing devices may be a laptop computer a cell phone a personal digital assistant or other similar device with on board processing power and wireless communications ability that is powered by a Direct Current DC power source that supplies DC voltage to the mobile device and that is solely within the mobile computing device and needs to be recharged on a periodic basis such as a fuel cell or a battery.

A vehicle has hardware and software that can take control of the vehicle for a short period including activating electromechanical mechanisms that are part of the vehicle. The vehicle has hardware and software for networking between the clouds as well as potentially between other vehicles to cause related automation within the vehicle based on communications between the vehicle and the cloud and or other vehicles. The vehicle s Cellular Interface system is configured to allow cellular phones access the automobile computer systems interpret the information and show the text on the cellular phones display while simultaneously transmitting the retrieved information as well as characteristic and states of the cellular phone used to access the vehicle computer system to a global network that would alert parties who could assist or benefit from the retrieved automobile information. A cellular phone with a software application can establish a connection with the vehicle s on board diagnostic computer and or other on board intelligent control systems.

The system can interface with a client device such as a mobile phone with the on board computing system in the vehicle. The on board diagnostic computing device may monitor a set of operational characteristics of a vehicle and communicate that diagnostic to both the driver and with the cloud. The information derived from this system can also be conveyed and processed on a mobile client device coupled with additional information and displayed on the mobile client device s display screen while simultaneously transmitting this information over the Internet to be stored in a database.

At the point of communication negotiation an application on the client device extracts position location from the vehicle s navigation system and transmits the response from the vehicle s navigation system and the location to a server ready to receive this information. Alternatively an application can extract similar position information from GPS module internal to the client device itself.

In an embodiment the standard for the automotive industry for vehicles may use is the SAE J1850 communications protocol which utilizes variable pulse width modulation and pulse width modulation. This means that the width of the pulse determines whether it is a 1 or a 0. Most phones form communication with serial connections RS 232 Infrared . . . etc. and wireless connection protocols Bluetooth Infrared . . . etc. . These two protocols must be converted or bridged by some sort of microprocessor so the two communication methodologies can communicate with each other. This can be accomplished by using an integrated circuit that can be used to convert the OBD II signal which includes different protocols such as but not limited to J1850 VPW J1850 PWM ISO 9141 2 ISO 14230 ISO 15765 to one of the aforementioned phone communication formats.

Thus the GPS based proximity module is hosted on a cloud based provider site that contains one or more servers including the cloud based server and one or more databases . The servers cooperate with the one or more databases to store the data and reference information needed to control and track the package transfer process to speed up the package delivery and pick up process and to ensure security for the package exchange process. The on board actuation module of the target vehicle is an on board telematics module. One or more servers present one or more application programming interfaces to provide a single common end to end solution between servers of one or more package delivery services and servers of one or more OEM telematics providers without additional hardware required to be installed in the target vehicle.

A cloud provider service can install and operate application software in the cloud and users can access the software service from the client devices. Cloud users who have a site in the cloud may not solely manage the cloud infrastructure and platform where the application runs. Thus the servers and databases may be shared hardware where the user is given a certain amount of dedicate use of these resources. The user s cloud based site is given a virtual amount of dedicated space and bandwidth in the cloud. Cloud applications can be different from other applications in their scalability which can be achieved by cloning tasks onto multiple virtual machines at run time to meet changing work demand. Load balancers distribute the work over the set of virtual machines. This process is transparent to the cloud user who sees only a single access point.

The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service is coded to utilize a protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP to engage in a request and response cycle with both a mobile device application resident in a client device as well as a web browser application resident in the client device. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service has one or more routines to automate a package delivery to and pick up from the vehicle process. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service can be accessed by a mobile device a desktop a tablet device and other similar devices anytime anywhere. Thus the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service hosted on a cloud based provider site is coded to engage in 1 the request and response cycle from all web browser based applications 2 SMS twitter based request and response message exchanges 3 the request and response cycle from a dedicated on line server 4 the request and response cycle directly between a native mobile application resident in a client device and the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service and 5 combinations of these.

The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service has one or more application programming interfaces APIs with two or more of the package delivery entity sites such as FedEx UPS etc. as well as application programming interfaces with two or more of the OEM remote access connectivity systems such as telematics system sites such as OnStar Lexus Linksys Ford Sync Uconnect MBConnect BMWConnect etc. The APIs may be a published standard for the connection to each OEM remote access connectivity system. The APIs may also be an open source API. One or more of the API s may be customized to closed non published APIs of a remote access connectivity site and or package delivery entity site. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service is coded to establish a secure communication link between each package delivery entity site and the cloud provider site. The cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service is coded to establish a secure communication link between each telematics system site and the cloud provider site. The software service is coded to establish the secure communication link by creating a tunnel at the socket layer and encrypting any data while in transit between each package delivery entity sites and the provider site as well as to satisfy any additional authentication mechanisms required by the direct lending institution including but not limited to IP address white listing and token based authentication.

In an embodiment the server computing system may include a server engine a web page management component a content management component and a database management component. The server engine performs basic processing and operating system level tasks. The web page management component handles creation and display or routing of web pages or screens associated with receiving and providing digital content and digital advertisements. Users may access the server computing device by means of a URL associated therewith. The content management component handles most of the functions in the embodiments described herein. The database management component includes storage and retrieval tasks with respect to the database queries to the database and storage of data.

An embodiment of a server computing system to display information such as a web page etc. is discussed. An application including any program modules when executed on the server computing system A causes the server computing system A to display windows and user interface screens on a portion of a media space such as a web page. A user via a browser from the client computing system A may interact with the web page and then supply input to the query fields and or service presented by a user interface of the application. The web page may be served by a web server computing system A on any Hypertext Markup Language HTML or Wireless Access Protocol WAP enabled client computing system A or any equivalent thereof. For example the client mobile computing system A may be a smart phone a touch pad a laptop a netbook etc. The client computing system A may host a browser to interact with the server computing system A. Each application has a code scripted to perform the functions that the software component is coded to carry out such as presenting fields and icons to take details of desired information. Algorithms routines and engines within the server computing system A take the information from the presenting fields and icons and put that information into an appropriate storage medium such as a database. A comparison wizard is scripted to refer to a database and make use of such data. The applications may be hosted on the server computing system A and served to the browser of the client computing system A. The applications then serve pages that allow entry of details and further pages that allow entry of more details.

The telematics system uses telecommunications vehicular technologies electrical sensors instrumentation and wireless communications modules to allow communication with between the cloud and a vehicle. The telematics system site sends receives and stores information via a telematics module to affect control on objects in the vehicle. Telematics includes but is not limited to Global Positioning System technology integrated with computers and mobile communications technology in automotive navigation systems. Telematics also includes cloud based interaction with an integrated hands free cell phone system in the vehicle wireless safety communication system in the vehicle and automatic driving assistance systems.

A wireless communication circuit exchanges communication between the mobile client device and the vehicle. The wireless communication circuit executes instructions with the processor via a bus system. The wireless communication circuit can be configured to communicate to RF radio frequency satellites cellular phones analog or digital Bluetooth V Wi Fi Infrared Zigby Local Area Networks LAN WLAN Wireless Local Area Network or other wireless communication configurations and standards. The wireless communication circuit allows the vehicle s intelligence systems such as the telematics module and other diagnostic tools to communicate with other devices wirelessly. The wireless communication circuit includes an antenna built therein and being housed within the housing or can be externally located on the housing.

The Telecommunications and Informatics applied in wireless technologies and computational systems may be based on 802.11p. The IEEE standard in the 802.11 family and also referred to as Wireless Access for the Vehicular Environment WAVE is the primary standard that addresses and enhances Intelligent Transportation System.

An example telematics module sends commands and exchanges information other electronic circuits electromechanical devices and electromagnetic devices in the vehicle. The telematics module may operate in conjunction with computer controlled devices and radio transceivers to provide precision repeatability functions such as in robotics artificial intelligence systems and emergency warning performance systems located in and exchanged between vehicles.

Additional intelligent vehicle technologies are car safety systems and self contained autonomous electromechanical sensors to generate warnings that can be transmitted within a specified targeted area of interest say within 100 meters of the emergency warning system for vehicles transceiver. In ground applications intelligent vehicle technologies are utilized for safety and commercial communications between vehicles or between a vehicle and a sensor along the road.

The wireless communication circuits in the vehicle or in a client device are configured to give access to the mobile Internet via a cellular telephone service provider. The mobile Internet is wireless access that handoffs the mobile client device or vehicle from one radio tower to another radio tower while the vehicle or device is moving across the service area. Also in some instances Wi Fi may be available for users on the move so that a wireless base station connects directly to an Internet service provider rather than through the telephone system.

In regards of viewing ability of an on line site the scripted code for the on line site such as a website social media site etc. is configured to adapted to be i viewed on tablets and mobile phones such as individual downloadable applications in data stores that are designed to interface with the on line site ii viewable on a screen in the vehicle as well as iii viewable on a screen of a desktop computer via a browser. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the invention can be practiced with other computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices wearable computers cellular or mobile phones multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics set top boxes network PCs mini computers mainframe computers and the like.

Mobile web applications and native applications can be downloaded from a cloud based site. The mobile web applications and native applications have direct access to the hardware of mobile devices including accelerometers and GPS chips and the speed and abilities of browser based applications. Information about the mobile phone and the vehicle s location is gathered by software housed on the phone.

One or more scripted routines for the cloud based package exchange with a vehicle service are configured to collect and provide features such as those described herein.

Any application and other scripted code components may be stored on a non transitory computing machine readable medium which when executed on the server causes the server to perform those functions. The applications including program modules may be implemented as logical sequences of software code hardware logic circuits and any combination of the two and portions of the application scripted in software code are stored in a non transitory computing device readable medium in an executable format. In an embodiment the hardware logic consists of electronic circuits that follow the rules of Boolean Logic software that contain patterns of instructions or any combination of both.

The design is also described in the general context of computing device executable instructions such as applications etc. being executed by a computing device. Generally programs include routines objects widgets plug ins and other similar structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Those skilled in the art can implement the description and or figures herein as computer executable instructions which can be embodied on any form of computing machine readable media discussed herein.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions herein are presented in terms of algorithms routines and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm routine is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. These algorithms routine of the application including the program modules may be written in a number of different software programming languages such as C C Java HTML or other similar languages.

Many online pages on a server such as web pages are written using the same language Hypertext Markup Language HTML which is passed around using a common protocol HTTP. HTTP is the common Internet language dialect or specification . Through the use of a web browser a special piece of software that interprets HTTP and renders HTML into a human readable form web pages authored in HTML on any type of computer can be read anywhere including telephones PDAs and even popular games consoles. Because of HTTP a client machine like your computer knows that it has to be the one to initiate a request for a web page it sends this request to a server. A server may be a computing device where web sites reside when you type a web address into your browser a server receives your request finds the web page you want and sends it back to your desktop or mobile computing device to be displayed in your web browser. The client device and server may bilaterally communicate via a HTTP request response cycle between the two.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussions it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Although embodiments of this design have been fully described with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be noted that various changes and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications are to be understood as being included within the scope of embodiments of this design as defined by the appended claims. The invention is to be understood as not limited by the specific embodiments described herein but only by scope of the appended claims.

