---

title: Thyristor memory cell integrated circuit
abstract: A semiconductor memory device including an array of memory cells (MC) formed on a substrate each realized from a load element and thyristor that define a switchable current path whose state represents a volatile bit value stored by the MC. At least one word line corresponding to a respective row of the array is formed on the substrate and coupled to MC current paths for the corresponding row. Bit lines corresponding to respective columns of the array are formed on the substrate and can be coupled to a modulation doped QW interface of the MC thyristors for the corresponding column. Circuitry is configured to apply an electrical signal to the word line(s) in order to generate current that programs phase change material of the MC load elements into one of a high or low resistive state according to state of the current path of the MCs for non-volatile backup purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09281059&OS=09281059&RS=09281059
owner: The University of Connecticut
number: 09281059
owner_city: Farmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150129
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 951 578 filed on Jul. 26 2013 which is a continuation in part of International Appl. No. PCT US2012 051265 filed on Aug. 17 2012 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present application relates to integrated circuits. More specifically the present application relates to memory integrated circuits that store data bit values in an array of memory cells.

Memory system designers have struggled for years and continue to struggle to find a solution that provide the density of dynamic random access memory DRAM the high speed operations of static random access memory SRAM along with the capability of backing up the volatile bit values of the memory system into a non volatile form for ultra low power modes and or power supply failures.

The present application is directed to a semiconductor memory device that includes an array of memory cells formed on a substrate. Each given memory cell of the array includes a resistive load element and a thyristor device that define a switchable current path through the resistive load element and the thyristor device of the given memory cell. The resistive load element is realized from a phase change material that can be selectively programmed into one of a high resistive state and a low resistive state by current that flows through the switchable current path of the given memory cell. The state of the switchable current path of the given memory cell represents a volatile bit value stored by the given memory cell. At least one word line corresponding to a respective row of the array is formed on the substrate. A given word line is coupled to the switchable current path through the resistive load element and thyristor device of the memory cells for the corresponding row of the array. A plurality of bit lines corresponding to respective columns of the array is formed on the substrate and interface to the thyristor of the memory cells for the corresponding column of the array. The memory device also includes circuitry configured to apply a first electrical signal to the least one word line of the array in order to generate current that programs the phase change material of the resistive load elements of memory cells of the array into one of the high resistive state and the low resistive state according to the state of the switchable current path of the memory cells of the array for non volatile backup of the volatile bit values stored by the memory cells of the array.

In one embodiment the first electrical signal is applied to the every word line of the array and comprises a first time varying voltage signal that generates current that programs the phase change material of the resistive load elements of the memory cells of the array.

For the memory cells of the array where the switchable current path of the given memory cell is in a non conducting OFF state corresponding to a volatile 0 bit value the first time varying voltage signal can produce current that transforms the phase change material of the resistive load element of the given memory cell by melting to the high resistance state corresponding to a non volatile 0 bit value. For memory cells of the array where the switchable current path of the given memory cell is in a conducting ON state corresponding to a volatile 1 bit value the first time varying voltage signal can produce current that does not transform the phase change material of the resistive load element of the given memory cell such that it remains in a low resistance state corresponding to a non volatile 1 bit value.

The circuitry of the memory device can be further configured to apply a second electrical signal such as a second time varying voltage signal to every word line of the array in order to generate current that programs the phase change material of the resistive load elements of memory cells of the array into the low resistive state as well as setting the state of the switchable current path of the memory cells of the array according to the non volatile bit values stored by the memory cells of the array for restore of the volatile bit values stored by the memory cells of the array from non volatile backup.

For memory cells of the array where the phase change material of the resistive load element of the given memory cell is in a high resistance state corresponding to a non volatile 0 bit value the second time varying voltage signal can produce a current that transforms the phase change material of the resistive load element of the given memory cell by recrystallization into the low resistance state and sets the state of the switchable current path of the given memory cell into an non conducting OFF state corresponding to a volatile 0 bit value. For memory cells of the array where the phase change material of the resistive load element of the given memory cell is in a low resistance state corresponding to a non volatile 1 bit value the second time varying voltage can produce a current that does not transform the phase change material of the resistive load element of the given memory cell such that it remains in the low resistance state and sets the state of the switchable current path of the given memory cell into a conducting ON state corresponding to a volatile 1 bit value.

In one embodiment the second time varying voltage signal includes a pulse followed by a reduction in voltage to a level below the switching voltage of the thyristor devices of the memory cells of the array.

The thyristor devices of the memory cells of the array can include a first type modulation doped quantum well interface spaced from a second type modulation doped interface. The bit lines can be coupled to the first type modulation doped quantum well interface of the memory cells for a corresponding column of the array. A plurality of erase lines corresponding to respective columns of the array can be formed on the substrate. A given erase line can be coupled to the second type modulation doped quantum well interface of the memory cells for the corresponding column of the array.

In one embodiment the semiconductor memory device further includes an address bus a data bus and a control bus. Row address decoding circuitry is operably coupled to the address bus. The row address decoding circuitry can be configured to select a word line as dictated by a row address input on the address bus. Word line driver circuitry is operably coupled to the row address decoding circuitry. The word line driver circuitry can be configured to apply signals to the selected word line. Column address decoding circuitry is operably coupled to the address bus. The column address decoding circuitry can be configured to select a bit line as dictated by a column address input on the address bus. Bit line amplifier and driver circuitry is operably coupled to the column address decoding circuitry and the bit lines of the array. The bit line amplifier and driver circuitry can be configured to apply or process signals carried on the selected bit line. Erase line driver circuitry is operably coupled to the column address decoding circuitry and the erase lines of the array. The erase line driver circuitry can be configured to apply signals carried on the selected erase line. A data input circuit and a data output circuit is operably coupled to the data bus. IO gate circuitry is operably coupled between bit line amplifier and driver circuitry and both the data input circuit and the data output circuit and is also operably coupled between erase line driver circuitry and the data input circuit. Control circuitry is operably coupled to the control bus. The control circuitry can be configured to control operations of the semiconductor memory device according to control data input on the control bus.

In the preferred embodiment the circuitry that applies the first electrical signal to the word line s of the array operates in response to circuitry that detects presence of a predetermined event or signal. The predetermined event or signal can be triggered by at least one of a predetermined user input a predetermined low power operational mode of a processing system and a reduction in power supplied to the device.

The thyristor devices of the memory cells of the array can be realized from an epitaxial layer structure formed on the substrate that defines complementary n type and p type modulation doped quantum well interfaces. The epitaxial layer structure can include an N type doped layer a first plurality of layers forming a p type modulation doped quantum well interface spaced from the N type doped layer a second plurality of layers forming an n type modulation doped quantum well interface the first plurality of layers being separated from the second plurality and a P type doped layer spaced from the second plurality of layers. The n type modulation doped quantum well interface includes at least one quantum well separated from an n type doped charge sheet by at least one undoped spacer layer. The p type modulation doped quantum well interface includes at least one quantum well separated from a p type doped charge sheet by at least one undoped spacer layer. The p type modulation doped quantum well interface can be formed above the N type doped layer.

The phase change material of the resistive load elements of the memory cells of the array can be realized from a chalcogenide glass material.

The memory cells can be configured for DRAM like operation where the volatile bit values stored by the state of the switchable current path of the memory cells are periodically refreshed between low power dynamic storage states.

Preferably the thyristor memory cell integrated circuit and possibly other optoelectronic devices logic circuits and or signal processing circuits that are fabricated integral thereto are realized from the inversion quantum well channel device structures similar to those described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 031 243 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 556 285 filed on Apr. 24 2000 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 798 316 filed on Mar. 2 2001 International Application No. PCT US02 06802 filed on Mar. 4 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 949 504 filed on Oct. 14 1997 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 200 967 filed on Jul. 23 2002 U.S. application Ser. No. 09 710 217 filed on Nov. 10 2000 U.S. Patent Application No. 60 376 238 filed on Apr. 26 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 323 390 filed on Dec. 19 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 280 892 filed on Oct. 25 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 323 390 filed on Dec. 19 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 323 513 filed on Dec. 19 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 323 389 filed on Dec. 19 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 323 388 filed on Dec. 19 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 340 942 filed on Jan. 13 2003 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. With these structures a fabrication sequence is used to make all the devices including an array of thyristor memory cells and supporting electrical and or optoelectronic devices on a common substrate. In other words n type and p type contacts critical etches etc. are used to realize all of these devices simultaneously on a common substrate. The essential features of this device structure include 1 an n type modulation doped QW interface and a p type modulation doped QW interface 2 self aligned n type and p type channel contacts formed by ion implantation 3 n type metal for the n channel injector in contact with the n type ion implants and the n type modulation doped QW interface as well as n type metal for the bottom cathode terminal in contact with the bottom n type layer 4 p type metal for the p type channel injector in contact with the p type ion implants and the p type modulation doped QW interface as well as p type metal for the top anode electrode in contact with the top p type layer and 5 a current blocking and steering implant in the top p type region above the n type modulation doped quantum well interface . The n type modulation doped quantum well interface includes at least one quantum well separated from an n type doped charge sheet by at least one undoped spacer layer. The p type modulation doped quantum well interface includes at least one quantum well separated from a p type doped charge sheet by at least one undoped spacer layer. The active device structures are preferably realized with a material system of group III V materials such as a GaAs AlGaAs .

In one embodiment the resistance of the phase change material of the resistive load element of a given thyristor memory cell can be changed between a high resistance phase and a low resistance phase or vice versa in response to electrical current signals that are supplied to the resistive load element via the word line and that flows through the phase change material of the resistive load element . The phase change material can be a chalcogenide glass material that is capable of changing phase between a high resistance amorphous phase and a low resistance crystalline phase and vice versa by Joule heating of the material through application of current to the material. This operation allows the thyristor memory cell to function in a non volatile manner. The thyristor memory cell can also function as a volatile static memory cell that does not require periodic refresh or as a volatile dynamic memory cell that does require periodic refresh as described below.

The thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell switches from a non conducting OFF state where the current I through the thyristor device between the top anode terminal and the bottom cathode terminal is substantially zero to a conducting ON state where the current I is substantially greater than zero when 

i the anode terminal is forward biased e.g. biased positively with respect to the cathode terminal by applying suitable bias signals applied to the anode terminal via the word line and

ii the voltage potential between n channel injector electrode and the anode terminal is forward biased by applying suitable bias signals to the n channel injector electrode via the bit line and to the anode terminal via the word line such that the level of charge in the n type modulation doped QW interface exceeds the critical switching charge Q which is that charge that reduces the forward breakdown voltage such that no OFF state bias point exists.

The voltage potential between the p channel injector terminal and the cathode terminal can also be configured by a suitable bias signal applied to the p channel injector terminal via the erase line to produce a charge in the p type modulation doped QW interface that is greater than the critical switching charge Q which is that charge that reduces the forward breakdown voltage such that no OFF state bias point exists. The critical switching charge Qis unique to the geometries and doping levels of the device.

The thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell switches from the conducting ON state to the non conducting OFF state when the charge in the n type modulation doped QW interface or the charge in the p type modulation doped QW interface decreases below the holding charge Q which is the critical value of the channel charge which will sustain holding action i.e. the conducting ON state . The thyristor device can be switched into the non conducting OFF state by applying suitable bias signals to anode terminal via the word line and to the n channel injector terminal via the bit line and or to the p channel injector terminal via the erase line such that the charge in the n type modulation doped QW interface or the charge in the p type modulation doped QW interface decreases below the holding charge Q. The holding charge Qis unique to the geometries and doping levels of the device.

The conducting ON state and the non conducting OFF state of the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell stores volatile 1 and 0 bit values respectively. In the conducting ON state of the thyristor device volatile 1 bit value current flows through the resistive load element into the anode terminal and through the thyristor device to the bottom cathode terminal which is fixed to ground or negative potential . This current causes a positive voltage difference between the re channel injector terminal and the bit line and the cathode terminal . In the non conducting OFF state of the thyristor device volatile 0 bit value current does not flow through the resistive load element into the anode terminal and through the device thus providing minimal voltage difference between the between the n channel injector terminal and the bit line and the cathode terminal .

For read operations a voltage pulse is applied to the word line and the voltage signal of the n channel injector terminal and the bit line represents the volatile bit value of the thyristor memory cell.

For write operations the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell can be programmed electrically into the conducting ON state volatile 1 bit value by applying suitable bias signals to top anode terminal via the word line and to the re channel injector electrode via the bit line in order to produce a charge in the n type modulation doped QW interface of the thyristor device that is greater than the critical switching charge Q. The thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell can be programmed electrically into the non conducting OFF state volatile 0 bit value by applying suitable bias signals to anode terminal via the word line and to the re channel injector terminal via the bit line and or to the p channel injector terminal via the erase line such that the charge in the n type modulation doped QW interface or the charge in the p type modulation doped QW interface decreases below the holding charge Q.

For non volatile operations the resistive load element of the thyristor memory cell can be programmed into a high resistance state NV 0 bit value by applying a suitable bias signal to the word line of the thyristor memory cell in order to produce a melting of the phase change material of the resistive load element which causes a change to an amorphous highly resistive state corresponding to the NV 0 bit value. The resistive load element of the thyristor memory cell can be programmed into a low resistance state NV 1 bit value by applying suitable bias signals to the word line of the thyristor memory cell in order to produce current that recrystallizes the phase change material of the resistive load element into its crystalline low resistance state corresponding to the NV 1 bit value.

In one embodiment the resistive load elements of the thyristor memory cells are selectively programmed into a high resistance state or low resistance state according to the volatile 0 or 1 bit values OFF ON states of the thyristor memory cells of the array. Such programming operations allow for non volatile storage and backup of the bit values of the thyristor memory cells of the array which can be used for certain power modes i.e. for low power sleep state or upon sudden loss of power .

The programming of the resistive load elements of the thyristor memory cells can be carried out by a global write 0 operation where a voltage pulse is applied to the word lines of the array. The magnitude of such voltage pulse is above the quiescent switching voltage of the thyristor devices of the thyristor memory cells. In conjunction with this pulse the n channel injector bit line and the p channel injector erase line of the thyristor memory cells float in a high impedance state. For the thyristor memory cells that are in the non conducing OFF state volatile 0 bit value this pulse will produce a displacement current that causes the phase change material of the resistive load element of the thyristor memory cell to transform by melting to the high resistance state corresponding to the NV 0 bit value. However for the thyristor memory cells that are in the conducting ON state volatile 1 bit value this pulse will not produce the necessary displacement current instead it produces only a conduction current change and the phase change material of the resistive load element of such thyristor memory cells remains in the low resistance state corresponding to the NV 1 bit value. In this manner the global write 0 operation transforms the phase change material of the resistive load elements of the thyristor memory cells of the array that are in the non conducing OFF state volatile 0 bit value to the high resistance state corresponding to the NV 0 bit value and does not transform the phase change material for the resistive load elements of the thyristor memory cells of the array that are in the conducing ON state volatile 1 bit value from the low resistance state corresponding to the NV 1 bit value.

The volatile bits values of the thyristor memory cells can be restored from the programmed NV bit values. Such restore operations allow for programming of the volatile bit values of the thyristor memory cells for normal operation following the low power NV backup mode. Such restore operations can be carried out by a global clear 0 operation where a voltage pulse is applied to the word lines of the array. The magnitude of the pulse is above the quiescent switching voltage of the thyristor devices of the thyristor memory cells of the array. In conjunction with this pulse the n channel injector bit line is biased and p channel injector erase line of the thyristor memory cells floats in a high impedance state. For the thyristor memory cells with the phase change material of the resistive load element in the high resistance state corresponding to the NV 0 bit value this pulse will produce a displacement current that causes the phase change material of the resistive load element to transform by recrystallization into the low resistance state. Such displacement current is designed to be less than the displacement current that causes the phase change material of the resistive load element to transform by melting to the high resistance state. The transformation pulse is short enough that the QW interfaces of the thyristor devices have insufficient time to be populated and thus these thyristor devices do not switch into the conducting ON state i.e. they remain in the non conducting OFF state corresponding to the volatile 0 value. After the transformation pulse the voltage potential applied to the word lines of the array is reduced to a level below the characteristic switching voltage to cause the transformed thyristor memory cells to operate in the non conducting OFF state and assume the desired volatile 0 bit value. For the thyristor memory cells with the phase change material of the resistive load element in the low resistance state corresponding to the NV 1 bit value the transformation pulse will not produce the necessary displacement current for the transformation of the phase change material of the resistive load element . Instead the transformation pulse produces a conduction current that causes the thyristor devices of the memory cells to operate in the conducting ON state and assume the desired volatile 1 bit value and they remain ON when the voltage level is reduced to the level below the holding voltage because their QW interfaces were already populated and this charge has does not have sufficient time to dissipate in contrast to the transformed thyristor memory cells .

In one embodiment the write operations involve writing a volatile 0 bit value globally to all of the thyristor memory cells of the array and then writing volatile 1 bit values to the appropriate thyristor memory cells of the array one column at a time. Read operations can be performed on the thyristor memory cells of the array as required. During the time between a write and read operation a forward bias e.g. biased positively can be applied between the anode terminal and the cathode terminal of the thyristor device of a given thyristor memory cell and the latching behavior of the thyristor device stores the bit value of the given thyristor memory cell.

The resistive load element of the thyristor memory cell is a thin film resistor that can be integrated above the top anode of the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell. Therefore the footprint of the thyristor memory cell is the crosspoint of an array i.e. the intersection of two minimum line features. This provides for high density.

In one embodiment the resistive load element of the thyristor memory cell is realized from a phase change material as described above. This combines two memory functions within a single memory cell one memory function from the resistive load element and another memory function from the latching behavior of the thyristor device. This allows the thyristor memory cell to function as a static memory cell SRAM as well as a non volatile memory cell. For normal SRAM operation the resistive load element is programmed into its low resistance state and the thyristor memory cell operates as shown in . For non volatile applications the resistive load element can be programmed into the NV 0 or NV 1 bit values as described above and the thyristor memory cell operates as shown in .

The configurable nature of the thyristor memory cell as a static memory cell or a non volatile memory cell has many advantages including 

NV backup operation can be used for certain power modes i.e. for low power sleep state or upon sudden loss of power .

The thyristor memory cell can also operate a DRAM cell. This is shown in . The states are the same as the SRAM but there is an additional state called the store state. Thus after writing either a volatile 1 or 0 bit value and during the time that a read operation is not required these represent substantial periods of time when neither writing nor reading are necessary the word lines of the respective thyristor memory cells are powered down to a low voltage e.g. approximately 0.6V which is labeled Dynamic Storage State in . The charge in the quantum well interfaces cannot escape by conduction because the components have been reduced drastically. Also recombination is essentially zero. Therefore if a volatile 1 bit value is stored by the memory cell i.e. the quantum well interfaces of the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell are filled with charge the quantum well interfaces will remain filled for a long time. Simulations have shown that when the voltage is raised back to the level of the SRAM volatile 1 bit value after 1 msec there is still enough charge left in the thyristor memory cell to restore the ON state. That means the data has not been lost. If the store time exceeds some long time say 1 msec then sufficient charge leaks away that a volatile 0 bit value will be obtained upon increasing the voltage. So a refresh operation is required periodically e.g. once every msec as shown in . The advantage gained is ultra low power. The speed of read and write is identical to the SRAM. Clearly this DRAM has significant advantages which are 

selective operation of the cell as an SRAM cell or DRAM cell can be controlled by simply disabling the refresh cycle and the store voltage.

complex sense amplifiers are not required the thyristor action is its own sense amplifier and provides a digital output signal on the respective bit line.

not limited by stored charge as in conventional DRAM the thyristor is an active device which can supply current instead of charge active read.

1 an SRAM like mode referred to as SRAM MODE that supports both reading of volatile bit values from the thyristor memory cells of the array and writing of volatile bit values into the thyristor memory cells of the array 

2 a reduced power DRAM like mode referred to as DRAM MODE that supports both reading of volatile bit values from the thyristor memory cells of the array and writing of volatile bit values into the thyristor memory cells of the array in conjunction with periodic refresh of the thyristor memory cells 

3 an NV BACKUP MODE that programs the resistive state i.e. high resistive state for an NV 0 bit value or a low resistive state for an NV 1 bit value of the load resistive elements of the thyristor memory cells of the array according to the volatile bit values stored by the thyristor memory cells in the SRAM MODE or the DRAM MODE and

4 an NV RESTORE MODE that initializes the state and corresponding volatile bit value i.e. conducting ON state corresponding to a volatile 1 bit value or non conducting OFF state corresponding to a volatile 0 bit value of the thyristor memory cells of the array for the SRAM like mode or DRAM like mode according to the resistive state of the load resistive elements of the thyristor memory cells of the array dictated by the NV BACKUP MODE.

The phase change material of the resistive load element of each thyristor memory cell of the array can be initially configured in a low resistance state suitable for operation of the SRAM MODE or the DRAM MODE. The cathode terminal for each memory cell of the array is connected to a reference ground potential or negative potential by a common cathode line or possibly multiple cathode lines if desired .

The memory system includes a number of supporting circuits that interface directly or indirectly to the array including row address decoding and word line driving circuitry coupled to address bus column address decoding and IO gate logic coupled to address bus a data input block and a data output block coupled between the IO gate logic and a data bus bit line amplifiers and drivers coupled between the bit lines of the array and the IO gate logic word line write control circuitry coupled between the data input block and the word line driver circuitry erase line driver circuitry coupled between the IO gate logic the erase lines of the array bit line conditioning circuitry coupled to the bit lines of the array and word line reference voltage circuitry coupled to the word lines of the array .

The row address decoding and word line driving circuitry drives the appropriate word line of the array as designated by row address signals input on the address bus . The signaling of the word line is dictated by the operation read or write and operational mode as controlled by the mode control circuitry according to the control data input on the control bus .

For read operations the column address decoding and IO gate logic selectively couples the data output block to the bit line amplifier circuitry for the bit line of the array as designated by column address signals input on the address bus . For write operations the column address decoding and IO gate logic couples the data input block to the bit line driver circuitry for the bit line of the array as designated by column address signals input on the address bus and also couples the data input block to the erase line driver circuitry for the erase line of the array as designated by column address signals input on the address bus .

The data input block stores the bit value input on the data bus to support write operations where the bit value is stored in a thyristor memory cell of the array by operation of the row address decoding and word line driver circuitry the word line write control circuitry the column address decoding and IO gate logic the bit line driver circuitry and the erase line driver circuitry all of which operate under control of the mode control circuitry .

The data output block stores the bit value that is output on the data bus to support read operations where the bit value is read from a thyristor memory cell of the array by operation of the row address decoding and word line driver circuitry the column address decoding and IO gate logic and the bit line amplifier circuitry all of which operate under control of the mode control circuitry .

The bit line amplifier and driver circuitry is coupled to the bit lines of the array . During read operations the bit line amplifier circuitry loads the bit value of the selected thyristor memory cell as carried by the associated bit line into the data output block via the IO gate logic . During write operations the bit line driver circuitry drives the bit line with the appropriate signals that controls the state of the thyristor device i.e. conducting ON state for a volatile 1 bit value or a non conducting OFF state for a volatile 0 bit of the selected thyristor memory cell as dictated by the bit value of the thyristor memory cell output from the data input block via the IO gate logic .

The word line write control circuitry operates during write operations to control the word line driver circuitry to supply the appropriate signals to the selected word line of the array based on the bit value of the selected thyristor memory cell as output by the data input block .

The erase line driver circuitry operates during write operations to drive the erase line of the array with appropriate signals that controls the state of the thyristor device i.e. conducting ON state for a volatile 1 bit value or a non conducting OFF state for a volatile 0 bit of the selected thyristor memory cell as dictated by the bit value of the thyristor memory cell output from the data input block via the IO gate logic .

The bit line conditioning circuitry conditions the bit lines of the array to a desired voltage level prior to a read operation.

The word line reference voltage circuitry operates under control of the mode control circuitry to supply a variable reference voltage signal v to the word lines of the array . The level of vis varied to support the different operational modes such as during refresh intervals for the DRAM MODE for the global write 0 operation for the NV BACKUP MODE and for the global clear 0 operation of the NV RESTORE MODE.

The SRAM MODE involves write operations read operations and stand by operations between successive write operations and or read operations . In the SRAM MODE the mode control circuitry controls the word line reference voltage circuitry to supply the reference voltage signal v to the word lines of the array which is preferably a constant value for all operations including stand by operations write operations and read operations. This constant value can be a voltage that maintains the respective thyristor devices of the thyristor memory cells of the array in the conducting ON state if in the conducting ON state which is greater than the characteristic holding voltage of the thyristor devices of the respective thyristor memory cells.

During the stand by operations of the SRAM MODE the reference voltage signal v supplied to the word lines of the cells of the array maintains the thyristor devices of the respective thyristor memory cells of the array in the conducting ON state if in the conducting ON state while the thyristor devices of the thyristor memory cells of the array in the non conducting OFF state remain in the non conducting OFF state.

During the write operations of the SRAM MODE a row and column address for a memory word which can be stored by one or more thyristor memory cells in a row of the array and corresponding data bit value s are input on the address bus and the data bus respectively. The row address decoder circuitry decodes this row address the column address decoder circuitry decodes this column address and the data input block stores the corresponding data bit value s . The mode control circuitry controls the word line driver circuitry which operates in conjunction with the row decoding operations performed by circuitry as well as the control operations of the word line control circuitry to apply appropriate signals to the selected word line of the array based on the bit value of the selected thyristor memory cell as output by the data input block . The mode control circuitry also controls the bit line driver circuitry which operates to drive the bit line of the selected thyristor memory cell with the appropriate signals that controls the state of the thyristor device i.e. conducting ON state for a volatile 1 bit value or a non conducting OFF state for a volatile 0 bit of the selected thyristor memory cell as dictated by the bit value of the thyristor memory cell output from the data input block via the IO gate logic according to the column address decoding operations . The mode control circuitry also controls the erase line driver circuitry which operates to drive the erase line of the selected thyristor memory cell with appropriate signals that controls the state of the thyristor device i.e. conducting ON state for a volatile 1 bit value or a non conducting OFF state for a volatile 0 bit of the selected thyristor memory cell as dictated by the bit value of the thyristor memory cell output from the data input block via the IO gate logic according to the column address decoding operations . In the event that the data bit value stored by the data input block for a given thyristor memory cell is a volatile 1 bit value the bit line driver circuitry is configured to apply a predetermined bias signal to the bit line of the given thyristor memory cell and the erase line driver circuitry is configured to place the erase line of the given thyristor cell into a high impedance state. The predetermined bias signal of the bit line in conjunction with the signal applied to the word line for the given thyristor memory cell by the word line driver circuitry is configured to turn the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell into the conducting ON state if it is not in the conducting ON state already. Thus the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell will switch into the conducting ON state if it was in the non conducting OFF state or remain in the conducting ON state if it was already in the conducting ON state. In one embodiment the signal of the bit line injects charge into the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell to reduce the switching voltage of the thyristor device to a value less than the quiescent switching voltage of the thyristor device which is the switching voltage with the n channel injector bit line and p channel injector erase line of the thyristor device floating in a high impedance state. In the event that the data bit value stored by the data input block for a given thyristor memory cell is a volatile 0 bit value the erase line driver circuitry is configured to apply a predetermined bias signal to the erase line of the given thyristor memory cell and the bit line driver circuitry is configured to place the bit line of the given thyristor cell into a high impedance state. The predetermined bias signal of the erase line in conjunction with the bias signal applied to the word line for the given thyristor cell by the Word Line Driver Circuitry is configured to turn the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell into the non conducting OFF state if it is not in the non conducting OFF state already. Thus the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell will switch into the non conducting OFF state if it was in the conducting ON state or remain in the non conducting OFF state if it was already in the non conducting OFF state. In one embodiment the bias signal of the erase line removes charge from the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell to a value below the characteristic holding charge QH of the thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell.

During the read operations of the SRAM MODE a row and column address for a memory word which can be one or more thyristor memory cells in a row of the array are input on the address bus . The row and column addresses are used to read the data bit s of the memory word from the corresponding thyristor memory cell s of the array and store the data bit s in the data output block . The mode control circuitry controls the bit line amplifier circuitry to sense monitor the current of the bit lines of the array and also controls the word line driver circuitry which operates in conjunction with the row decoding operations performed by the circuitry to apply a predetermined voltage pulse waveform to the word line for the corresponding word. In the even that that the given thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell of the memory word is in the conducting ON state corresponding to a volatile 1 bit value and the voltage pulse waveform is supplied to the given thyristor memory cell via the word line the bit line amplifier circuitry will detect a corresponding current pulse on the bit line of the given thyristor memory cell. The column address decoding operations and IO gating operations performed by the circuitry cooperate with the bit line amplifier circuitry for the bit line of the given thyristor memory cell to load the appropriate volatile bit value 1 of the given thyristor memory cell into the data output block . In the even that that the given thyristor device of the thyristor memory cell of the memory word is in the non conducting OFF state corresponding to a volatile 0 bit value and the voltage pulse waveform is supplied to the given thyristor memory cell via the word line the bit line amplifier circuitry for the bit line of the thyristor memory cell will detect a lack of a corresponding current pulse on the bit line. The column address decoding and IO gating operations performed by circuitry cooperate with the bit line amplifier circuitry of the bit line for the given thyristor memory cell to load the appropriate non volatile bit value 0 of the given thyristor memory cell into the data output block .

The DRAM MODE involves write operations read operations and stand by operations between successive write operations and or read operations that are similar to those described above for the SRAM MODE. However the mode control circuitry controls the word line reference voltage circuitry to supply the reference voltage signal v to the word lines of the array where the reference voltage signal v is set to a voltage level referred to as the Dynamic Storage State above in reference to that is less than the characteristic holding voltage of the respective thyristor devices of the thyristor memory cells. Furthermore the mode control circuitry performs a periodic refresh cycle that refreshes all thyristor devices that are in the conducting ON state such that they remain in the conducting ON state. Such refresh operations are accomplished by increasing the voltage level of the reference voltage signal v to the voltage level of the SRAM MODE which is greater than the characteristic holding voltage of the thyristor devices of the respective thyristor memory cells. Examples of such refresh operations are shown in .

The NV BACKUP MODE can be configured by the mode control circuitry in response to a signal supplied by the low power power restore detect circuitry . The low power power restore detect circuitry can be configured to supply such signal in response to control signals triggered by user input user pressing Power ON OFF button for Shutdown or Sleep by a lower power system state e.g. Sleep state triggered by a processor or operating system or by detecting that a low level of DC power supplied by DC power supply circuitry and a power supply source such as a battery or mains power which can occur when a power supply collapse is imminent. In the NV BACKUP MODE the mode control circuitry controls the word line reference voltage circuitry to carry out a global write 0 operation where a voltage pulse is applied to the word lines of the array. The magnitude of such voltage pulse is above the quiescent switching voltage of the thyristor devices of the thyristor memory cells. In conjunction with this pulse the n channel injector bit line and the p channel injector erase line of the thyristor memory cells float in a high impedance state. For the thyristor memory cells that are in the non conducing OFF state volatile 0 bit value this pulse will produce a displacement current that causes the phase change material of the resistive load element of the thyristor memory cell to transform by melting to the high resistance state corresponding to the NV 0 bit value. However for the thyristor memory cells that are in the conducting ON state volatile 1 bit value this pulse will not produce the necessary displacement current instead it produces only a conduction current change and the phase change material of the resistive load element of such thyristor memory cells remains in the low resistance state corresponding to the NV 1 bit value. In this manner the global write 0 operation transforms the phase change material of the resistive load elements of the thyristor memory cells of the array that are in the non conducing OFF state volatile 0 bit value to the high resistance state corresponding to the NV 0 bit value and does not transform the phase change material for the resistive load elements of the thyristor memory cells of the array that are in the conducing ON state volatile 1 bit value from the low resistance state corresponding to the NV 1 bit value.

The NV RESTORE MODE can be configured by the mode control circuitry in response to a signal supplied by the low power power restore detect circuitry . The low power power restore detect circuitry can be configured to supply such signal in response to control signals triggered by user input user pressing Power ON OFF button for turning ON or Resume by a Power ON system state triggered by a processor or operating system or by detecting that the DC power supplied by DC power supply circuitry and a power supply source has returned to normal operating levels. In the NV RESTORE MODE the mode control circuitry controls the word line reference voltage circuitry to carry out a global clear 0 operation where a voltage pulse is applied to the word lines of the array. The magnitude of the pulse is above the quiescent switching voltage of the thyristor devices of the thyristor memory cells of the array. In conjunction with this pulse the n channel injector bit line is biased and p channel injector erase line of the thyristor memory cells floats in a high impedance state. For the thyristor memory cells with the phase change material of the resistive load element in the high resistance state corresponding to the NV 0 bit value this pulse will produce a displacement current that causes the phase change material of the resistive load element to transform by recrystallization into the low resistance state. Such displacement current is designed to be less than the displacement current that causes the phase change material of the resistive load element to transform by melting to the high resistance state. The transformation pulse is short enough that the QW interfaces of the thyristor devices have insufficient time to be populated and thus these thyristor devices do not switch into the conducting ON state i.e. they remain in the non conducting OFF state corresponding to the volatile 0 value. After the transformation pulse the voltage potential applied to the word lines of the array is reduced to a level below the characteristic switching voltage to cause the transformed thyristor memory cells to operate in the non conducting OFF state and assume the desired volatile 0 bit value. For the thyristor memory cells with the phase change material of the resistive load element in the low resistance state corresponding to the NV 1 bit value the transformation pulse will not produce the necessary displacement current for the transformation of the phase change material of the resistive load element . Instead the transformation pulse produces a conduction current that causes the thyristor devices of the memory cells to operate in the conducting ON state and assume the desired volatile 1 bit value and they remain ON when the voltage level is reduced to the level below the holding voltage because their QW interfaces were already populated and this charge has does not have sufficient time to dissipate in contrast to the transformed thyristor memory cells .

There have been described and illustrated herein several embodiments of a semiconductor memory device employing an array of thyristor memory cells that each include a thyristor device and a resistive load element realized from a phase change material that is electrically programmable into both a low resistance state and a high resistant state. While particular embodiments of the invention have been described it is not intended that the invention be limited thereto as it is intended that the invention be as broad in scope as the art will allow and that the specification be read likewise. Thus while particular memory architecture and systems have been disclosed it will be appreciated that other particular memory architecture and systems can be used as well. In addition while particular signaling schemes have been disclosed for operating the thyristor memory cells it will be understood that other suitable signaling schemes can be used. Moreover while particular epitaxial layer structures and material systems have been disclosed it will be appreciated that other epitaxial layer structures and material systems could be used as well. It will therefore be appreciated by those skilled in the art that yet other modifications could be made to the provided invention without deviating from its spirit and scope as claimed.

