---

title: Cloud data protection
abstract: A cloud data protection system protects cloud data of an enterprise. A protection policy for the enterprise is established by an administrator of the enterprise. The protection policy describes one or more types of cloud data protection to provide to the enterprise's cloud data. The cloud data protection system examines the protection policy to identify cloud data associated with the enterprise to access in order to implement the policy, and uses a personality object to retrieve the identified cloud data from one or more cloud services. The cloud data protection system performs one or more protection actions on the retrieved cloud data. The protection actions can include scanning the cloud data for malicious software, for compliance with a data loss prevention policy, or for data matching a discovery specification. The protection actions can also include archiving or backing up the cloud data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654511&OS=09654511&RS=09654511
owner: Veritas Technologies LLC
number: 09654511
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150812
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 189 441 filed on Jul. 22 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the field of cloud computing and in particular to protecting data maintained in cloud computing environments.

Modern enterprises typically maintain large amounts of mission critical data. Formerly the enterprises tended to store such data locally on their own premises. An advantage of storing the data locally was that enterprises could maintain control of the data. This control allowed the enterprises to perform data protection tasks such as backing up and archiving the data using applications hosted at the enterprises.

Now it is common for enterprises to use cloud services to store the data remotely. Users at the enterprise access the cloud based data via the Internet or another network. While storing data in the cloud provides many advantages using cloud storage also means enterprises must relinquish some control over their data. For example while a cloud service typically backs up an enterprise s cloud data the service might not let the enterprise specify the frequency of the backups or the types of data that are backed up. Similarly the enterprise might not be able to perform certain types of operations on the data such as detecting malicious software that could be performed if the data were hosted on premises. Thus the enterprises must make certain sacrifices in order to obtain the benefits of cloud services.

As a result enterprises that store data in the cloud are exposed to certain risks such as data loss that they are not necessarily exposed to if they host the data locally. This problem is especially acute for certain enterprises such as healthcare related enterprises that must store sensitive data in accordance with strict regulatory requirements.

The above and other issues are addressed by a computer implemented method non transitory computer readable storage medium and computer for protecting cloud data of an enterprise. Embodiments of the method comprise receiving a protection policy for the enterprise. The protection policy describes one or more types of cloud data protection to provide to cloud data of the enterprise. The method additionally comprises accessing cloud data stored by one or more remote cloud services to retrieve cloud data associated with the enterprise and performing one or more protection actions on the retrieved cloud data responsive to the protection policy.

Embodiments of the non transitory computer readable storage medium store executable computer program instructions performing steps comprising receiving a protection policy for the enterprise. The protection policy describes one or more types of cloud data protection to provide to cloud data of the enterprise. The steps further comprise accessing cloud data stored by one or more remote cloud services to retrieve cloud data associated with the enterprise and performing one or more protection actions on the retrieved cloud data responsive to the protection policy.

Embodiments of the computer comprise a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing executable computer program instructions. The instructions perform steps comprising receiving a protection policy for the enterprise. The protection policy describes one or more types of cloud data protection to provide to cloud data of the enterprise. The instructions further access cloud data stored by one or more remote cloud services to retrieve cloud data associated with the enterprise and perform one or more protection actions on the retrieved cloud data responsive to the protection policy. The computer additionally comprises a processor for executing the computer program instructions.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description describe certain embodiments by way of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein. Reference will now be made to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. and the other figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. A letter after a reference numeral such as A indicates that the text refers specifically to the element having that particular reference numeral. A reference numeral in the text without a following letter such as refers to any or all of the elements in the figures bearing that reference numeral e.g. in the text refers to reference numerals A and or B in the figures .

An enterprise is an organization such as a business school or government agency. The enterprise generates and consumes data during its operation such as customer related data e.g. mailing lists data provided by customers and internal data e.g. email among members of the enterprise employee related information . The enterprise stores at least some of the data using one or more cloud services . The data stored using the cloud services are called cloud data herein. In addition the enterprise may consume resources provided by the cloud services in connection with the cloud data. For example the enterprise may use resources provided by a cloud service that operates according to the Software as a Service SaaS model. In the SaaS model software and data are hosted by the cloud service and members of the enterprise access the software and data using client computers such as a desktop notebook or tablet computers executing web browsers.

Members of the enterprise access the cloud data by providing authentication credentials to the cloud services . The authentication credentials may include for example a login identifier password pair. Some members of the enterprise are administrators. The administrators are responsible for protecting the enterprise s cloud data.

The cloud services are provided by cloud service providers and are remote from the enterprises and the protection systems . In general the cloud services store cloud data on behalf of the enterprises and provide applications that act on the data. The specific types of cloud services in the environment depend upon the specific embodiment. Examples of cloud services include customer relationship management CRM services from SALESFORCE.COM INC. email services provided by GOOGLE INC. and storage services provided by AMAZON.COM INC. Depending upon the services and how they are used the services can receive and store cloud data provided by the enterprises and protection systems and also provide cloud data to the enterprises and protection systems. The individual components of the cloud data stored by the cloud services are referred to herein as data objects. 

The protection system protects the cloud data that the cloud services store on behalf of the enterprises . In one embodiment the protection system A is remote from the enterprises and the cloud services and protects cloud data for multiple enterprises. In another embodiment the protection system B is located on the premises of a particular enterprise B and protects cloud data for only that enterprise. Regardless of its location the protection system can protect cloud data that the enterprises store using multiple different cloud services .

In one embodiment the protection system receives authentication credentials from an enterprise for the cloud services holding the data that the enterprise desires to protect. The protection system uses the credentials to retrieve the cloud data from the cloud services . The protection system then protects the retrieved cloud data according to a protection policy established by the enterprise . The types of protection can vary in different embodiments and for different enterprises depending upon the service agreements between the enterprises and the operator of the protection system . The types of protection may include backing up the cloud data archiving the data and performing data loss prevention DLP on the data. The protection system can also use the authentication credentials to provide protected data to the cloud services . For example the protection system can restore backed up data to the cloud services .

Thus the protection system allows the enterprises to protect their cloud data. By specifying appropriate protection policies the enterprises can protect the data using techniques and or granularities that are not provided by the cloud services . As a result enterprises can enjoy the benefits that cloud services provide without being subject to some of the drawbacks related to loss of control of the cloud data.

The network represents communication pathways between entities connected to the network and in one embodiment is the Internet. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 2G 3G 4G mobile communications protocols digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including image data in binary form e.g. Portable Network Graphics PNG the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML etc. In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS HTTP Secure HTTPS virtual private networks VPNs Internet Protocol security IPsec etc. In another embodiment the entities on the network use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above.

The storage device is a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD solid state memory device or a magnetic tape drive. The storage device can also include multiple instances of the media such as an array of hard drives or a magnetic tape changer in communication with a library of magnetic tapes. The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The pointing device is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer system . The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display device . In some embodiments the display device includes a touch screen capability for receiving user input and selections. The network adapter couples the computer to the network . Some embodiments of the computer have different and or other components than those shown in . For example a server implementing the protection system or a cloud service can be formed of multiple blade servers and lack a display device keyboard and other components.

The computer is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein. As used herein the term module refers to computer program instructions and other logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules formed of executable computer program instructions are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

A storage module stores data used by the protection system . The stored data can include data used to provide data protection services as well as the protected data. The storage module can use a variety of techniques to store the data. For example the storage module can include one or more relational and or flat file databases. In addition the data storage module can use remote storage devices on the network to store data. For example some or all of the data stored by the storage module can be stored using specialized cloud services such as storage services provided by the SYMANTEC.CLOUD product available from SYMANTEC CORP. of Mountain View Calif.

In one embodiment data stored by the storage module include enterprise personality objects . The personality objects store information allowing the protection system to access cloud data stored by the cloud services . In one embodiment a personality object stores data associated with a particular enterprise . The data stored in the personality object can include identifiers of the cloud services storing cloud data on behalf of the enterprise identifiers of the accounts of enterprise users storing data at the cloud services and authentication credentials for the identified accounts. The personality object may also store state data associated with the enterprise and or cloud services such as the date that cloud data were last retrieved from particular cloud services.

The storage module also stores protection policies established by enterprises . The enterprise protection policies describe the types of cloud data protection the protection system is to provide to the enterprises as well as parameters associated with the protections. An enterprise s protection policy can be defined specific to particular data enterprise users and cloud services . For example an administrator of an enterprise can establish a protection policy for the enterprise specifying that the protection system backup the enterprise s cloud data archive certain types of the enterprise s data e.g. old emails and perform DLP scanning of other types of data e.g. customer records . Likewise the administrator can specify the frequency of the backups the types of data scanned for during DLP scanning etc.

A working storage stores cloud data retrieved from the cloud services . In one embodiment the protection policy is applied to cloud data held in the working storage . For example the working storage may store cloud data retrieved from a cloud service while the data are being scanned for compliance with a DLP policy. The working storage may also store data backed up from a cloud service A long term storage in contrast stores cloud data that are maintained by the protection system to implement a protection policy but are infrequently accessed. For example the long term storage may include offline storage systems storing archived cloud data.

Turning now to other modules within the protection system an access module serves as the interface between the protection system and the cloud services . In one embodiment the modules within the protection system interact with the cloud services using a common application programming interface API . Through this API the modules can perform tasks such as authenticating to the cloud services retrieving cloud data and submitting cloud data. The access module acts as an abstraction layer between the common API used by the protection system and the different APIs used by the various different cloud services . Thus the access module converts communications using the common API into communications using the API of a specific cloud service and vice versa.

The access module includes a set of provider API modules for converting between the common API and the specific APIs used by the cloud services . In one embodiment each provider API module is associated with a specific cloud service and converts communications between the common API and the API used by the associated cloud service. The provider API modules conform to a plug in architecture. Thus the functionality of the access module can be extended to cover an additional cloud service by plugging in or adding a provider API module for that cloud service.

An agent pool includes a set of agent modules for exchanging cloud data between the protection system and the various cloud services . In one embodiment the agent modules are instances of a common agent module and each includes the same functionality. The multiple agent modules within the agent pool allow the protection system to concurrently support multiple data protection sessions. The agent modules communicate with the cloud services via the access module . Thus the agent modules use the common API which the provider API modules convert into the specific APIs used by the different cloud services .

In one embodiment the agent modules also implement the enterprise protection policies . The application of an enterprise protection policy to the enterprise s cloud data is referred to herein as a protection session. An agent module examines an enterprise s protection policy to determine the actions to perform in the protection session. For example the agent module can identify the cloud data to access in order to implement the policy and the actions to perform on the data according to the policy. The agent module loads the appropriate enterprise personality object or objects that enables the agent module to access the data. Then the agent module interacts with the appropriate cloud service or services to retrieve the cloud data for the protection session. In one embodiment the agent module stores the retrieved data in the working storage .

For example assume an enterprise s protection policy specifies that an incremental backup should be performed on CRM data stored on behalf of particular enterprise users at a particular cloud service . To implement this policy in a protection session the agent module identifies the one or more personality objects required to retrieve the data such as personality objects associated with the enterprise users identified by the protection policy . The agent module uses the information in the personality objects to access the cloud service through the access module to retrieve the CRM data created or modified since the last protection session which it then stores in the working storage .

Depending upon the embodiment the agent modules can activate on demand on a schedule and or according to other activation criteria. For example the agent pool can be configured to activate an agent module once a day to perform a protection session for a particular enterprise . Likewise the agent module can be activated upon request of an administrator of an enterprise. An agent module can also be activated if an enterprise s protection policy is modified or a new enterprise protection policy is created. Further in one embodiment one or more additional modules of the protection system provide job scheduling and or other control functions for the agent modules . For example a service module not shown can activate the agent modules according to specified schedules.

As mentioned above an embodiment of the agent module stores cloud data retrieved from cloud services in the working storage . In one embodiment the agent module retrieves and stores all of the cloud data required for a protection session before performing the protection actions. This technique makes efficient use of bandwidth and other computational resources by retrieving the cloud data only once per protection session.

Further in one embodiment the agent modules interact with the cloud services to implement the results of protection actions performed during a protection session. These interactions can include restoring and or remediating cloud data by submitting cloud data to a cloud service causing a cloud service to delete or modify cloud data and or performing other actions. For example if the DLP scanning of cloud data in the working storage identifies data objects within the cloud data that should not be present an agent module can interact with the cloud service from which the data were retrieved to remove the data objects from the cloud data held by the cloud service.

The protection system also includes a set of protection modules for performing protection actions on the retrieved cloud data stored in the working storage . The protection modules are activated by the agent module as described above. In one embodiment the protection modules conform to a plug in architecture similar to the provider API modules . Each protection module performs a specified different protection action on the cloud data such as backup archiving or DLP scanning. The protection modules are described in more detail with respect to .

An embodiment of the protection system also includes a user interface UI module providing a UI for controlling and viewing status information about the protection system . In one embodiment the UI module includes a web server that provides a web based UI accessible to clients via the network . Administrators of the enterprises access the UI to perform tasks such as providing information for personality objects establishing protection policies configuring the protection modules selecting data for remediation or restoration etc. Similarly an administrator of the protection system uses the UI to perform tasks such as installing and configuring the provider API modules and the protection modules . Thus the protection system uses the UI module to receive information from the administrators. The administrators also access the UI to view reports describing actions performed by the protection system .

A security module scans cloud data for malicious software malware and or other security threats. Depending on the embodiment the security module may use a variety of techniques to scan for malware. For example the security module may maintain or access a set of malware definitions that describe string patterns or other data indicating the presence of malware and the security module can scan the cloud data to detect any data that matches the malware definitions. The security module may also maintain or access a set of behavioral definitions that describe actions performed by malware when executed. The security module may execute executable content in the cloud data e.g. in a virtual machine and detect any actions that match the malware definitions.

If the security module detects malware in the cloud data it may perform a remediation action such as removing the malware from the cloud data and or reporting the malware detection to an administrator of the enterprise associated with the cloud data. In one embodiment the security module remediates the malware by interacting with an agent module to remove the malware infected data from the cloud data stored by the cloud service .

A DLP module scans cloud data for compliance with a DLP policy. In one embodiment the policy is established by an administrator of the enterprise associated with the cloud data. The policy specifies types of data that should not be present in the cloud data such as personally identifiable information like credit card and social security numbers medical records and trade secret or other confidential information. The DLP module scans the cloud data to detect data objects having characteristics associated with the specified data types such as data objects in a file format of a medical record or text strings consistent with credit card numbers. If the DLP module detects data objects not in compliance with the DLP policy the DLP module may perform a remediation action such as removing the non compliant objects from the cloud data stored by the associated cloud service and or reporting the non compliant data to an administrator.

A discovery module provides electronic discovery e discovery support by scanning cloud data for data objects matching a discovery specification. E discovery refers to identifying data objects required for production in civil litigation or for similar purposes. An administrator of the enterprise and or another person associated with the e discovery process provides a discovery specification describing characteristics of data objects to be discovered. The discovery module analyzes the cloud data to identify data objects matching the discovery specification. The discovery module generates a report describing the identified data object extracts the data objects for production and or performs other actions supporting the e discovery process.

An archive module archives cloud data to an archive storage according to an archive policy. The archive policy may be established by an administrator of the enterprise associated with the cloud data. Enterprises often must retain certain types of cloud data such as old email messages even though the data are rarely accessed. The archive policy specifies the characteristics of data to archive and the archive module stores such data to archive storage. In addition an embodiment of the archive module removes the archived data from the cloud service so that the archived data are stored only in the archive storage. The archive module can also restore archived data from the archive storage to the cloud service from which it was originally archived or to another location . The archive storage may be within the long term storage .

A backup module backs up cloud data according to a backup policy. As with the archive policy the backup policy may be established by an administrator of the enterprise associated with the cloud data. The backup policy specifies the characteristics of the data to back up and the backup module backs up i.e. stores a copy of the cloud data to a backup storage. For example the backup policy can specify the cloud services from which to backup data and the data objects at the cloud services to backup. In addition the backup module may support incremental backup where only changes since a previous backup are stored. Likewise the backup module may support versioning capabilities where multiple versions of data objects are stored. In one embodiment the backed up cloud data also remains at the cloud service so that the data in the backup storage serves as a duplicate copy of the data. The backup module can restore the backed up data to the cloud services if necessary or desired. The backup storage may be within the working storage and or within the long term storage .

In one embodiment the agent module activates the backup module prior to activating the other protection modules . The backup module backs up the cloud data to the backup storage according to the backup policy. Then the other protection modules activated according the protection policy operate on the backed up data. For example the security module may scan the data in the backup storage for compliance with the security policy. Likewise the discovery module may scan cloud data objects in the backup storage for data matching the discovery specification.

A protection policy for the enterprise is established . In one embodiment an administrator of the enterprise interacts with the protection system using the UI to establish the enterprise protection policy . To this end the administrator identifies the cloud services that store cloud data on behalf of the enterprise the cloud data objects to which the protection policy applies and the policies specifications of the various protection modules to be included within the policy. For example the administrator can establish a protection policy that backs up CRM data held by a specific cloud service according to a specified backup schedule. In addition one or more enterprise personality objects are created . For example the administrator can create personality objects by providing authentication credentials for accounts at cloud services that store the protected cloud data. Thus the protection system receives the protection policy and the personality objects through interactions with the administrator.

The protection system accesses the cloud data according to the enterprise protection policy. In one embodiment an agent module in the agent pool activates as part of a protection session accesses the enterprise protection policy and uses the appropriate enterprise personality objects to retrieve the appropriate cloud data from the cloud services . The agent module stores the cloud data in the working storage of the protection system . The protection system protects the cloud data in the working storage by applying the protection modules according to the enterprise protection policy and the policies specifications of the individual protection modules. In one embodiment the protection system applies the protection modules in a specific sequence determined according to the enterprise protection policy . For example the protection system can back up the cloud data to a backup storage and then perform DLP scanning and or other protection actions on the backed up data. The protection system reports the results of the protection session to the enterprise administrator and or to another entity.

The protection system identifies protected cloud data for restoration or remediation. For example the administrator of an enterprise may interact with the protection system and request that archived or backed up cloud data be restored to the cloud service or services from which the data were originally retrieved. In another example the DLP module may detect data objects that are not compliant with a DLP policy during a protection session and produce remediated data that are compliant.

The protection system accesses the cloud service from which the cloud data were originally retrieved. In one embodiment an agent module uses the appropriate enterprise personality object to interface with the cloud service . The protection system submits the data to the cloud service or otherwise configures the data held by the cloud service to restore and or remediate the data. The protection system also reports the restoration remediation actions to the enterprise administrator and or to another entity.

In sum the protection system protects data stored by cloud services on behalf of enterprises . The protection system provides multiple different types of protection and allows the enterprises to establish the policies describing the specific protections to provide to the enterprises data. Moreover the protection system efficiently interacts with the cloud services by retrieving the cloud data and storing the data in working storage and then performing the protection actions on the stored data. Thus multiple types of cloud data protection are provided even though the cloud data are retrieved only once per session.

The above description is included to illustrate the operation of certain embodiments and is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is to be limited only by the following claims. From the above discussion many variations will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art that would yet be encompassed by the spirit and scope of the invention.

