---

title: Method and apparatus to buy and sell items via a local area network
abstract: A wireless device capable of matching a user with content based on the user's proximity to other users, by searching for a match between profiles of wireless devices within a wireless coverage area. Wireless devices broadcast profiles within a wireless coverage area. Other wireless devices within the wireless coverage area receive the broadcasted profiles, determine a match between the received profile and a profile stored on the wireless device, and display a match indicator if a match is determined. In this manner, a user having a wireless device may be matched with content based on the user's proximity to other users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09324105&OS=09324105&RS=09324105
owner: Marvell World Trade Ltd.
number: 09324105
owner_city: St. Michael
owner_country: BB
publication_date: 20150402
---
The present disclosure is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 608 638 filed Sep. 10 2012 which is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 840 557 filed Aug. 17 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 265 621 issued Sep. 11 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 823 840 filed Aug. 29 2006 which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to wireless networking and more specifically to searching for a match between profiles of wireless devices within a vicinity of a wireless coverage area.

There are a variety of on line services that match users with targeted content using profiles. Users of these on line services create profiles for interacting with an on line service. The on line services store profiles containing attributes of each piece of content. When a user is logged onto an on line service the service may match the information stored in the user s profile with attributes of the available content so as to provide the user with targeted content. Examples of on line services include social networking services such as MySpace and Linked In advertising services such as Google shopping services such as Amazon classifieds services such as Craig s List and E Bay game services such as Xbox Live and media distribution services such as iTunes and BitTorrent .

Presently these on line services may not match a user with content based on the user s interest in receiving such content and also based on the user s proximity to other users. For example on line services may not provide a user with information about nearby users with matching interests or information relating to items of interest in a store where the user is currently located while shopping.

The present invention addresses the foregoing by searching for a match between profiles of wireless devices within a wireless coverage area. The invention receives profiles broadcasted by wireless devices within the same wireless coverage area as a user and determines a match between received profiles and the user s profile. If a match is determined the invention displays a match indicator.

The invention may be implemented by a wireless device a method for operating the wireless device a computer program that operates in accordance with the method and a computer readable medium storing the computer program. The wireless device searches for a match between profiles of wireless devices within a wireless coverage area. The wireless device receives profiles broadcasted by other wireless devices within the wireless coverage area. A determination is made as to whether there is a match between a received profile and a profile stored on the wireless device and if so a match indicator is displayed.

Thus the present invention matches a user with content based on the user s proximity to other users. Here proximity may be determined by the range and connectivity of the wireless coverage area but proximity can also be determined in other ways if desired. For example a person using the present invention may receive information about nearby users with matching interests or information relating to a store where the user is shopping.

In another aspect of the invention the wireless device broadcasts one or more profiles within the wireless coverage area.

In another aspect of the invention the wireless coverage area is a WiFi coverage area and at least one of the one or more profiles is broadcasted in a beacon. The beacon comprises a WiFi information element and a profile is stored within the information element. The beacon includes WiFi beacon frames and WiFi probe response frames.

In another aspect of the invention the broadcasting is performed using WiFi beacons by adding the profile to a beacon and extracting a profile from a beacon on the recipient side.

In another aspect of the invention the device includes cellular phones laptops and special purpose wireless devices. Special purpose wireless devices include a universal serial bus USB interface an embedded wireless system and a display. The device can process one or more applications

In another aspect the invention is a social networking application. A determination as to whether there is a match between personal profiles is made by comparing personal preferences and attributes of one personal profile with personal preferences and attributes of another personal profile. Devices may connect via a network connection exchange information via a network connection create a chat session via a network connection and store profiles. The match indicator includes text messages icons and personal profile information.

In another aspect the invention is a classifieds application. A determination as to whether there is a match between a seller profile and a buyer profile is made by comparing the list of items for sale in the seller profile with the list of wanted items in the buyer profile. Devices may connect via a network connection exchange information via a network connection create a chat session via a network connection and store profiles. The match indicator includes text messages icons information about items for sale and information about a seller.

In another aspect the invention is a shopping application. A determination as to whether there is a match between a product profile and a shopping profile is made by comparing the product ID s in the product profile with the product ID s in the shopping profile. The match indicator includes text messages icons information about products information about discounts and advertisements.

In another aspect the invention is a game application. A determination as to whether there is a match between game profiles is made by comparing the list of games of one game profile with the list of games of another game profile. Devices may connect via a network connection exchange information via a network connection create a chat session via a network connection and store profiles. The match indicator includes text messages icons and a list of matching games.

In another aspect the invention is a media distribution application. A determination as to whether there is a match between media profiles is made by comparing lists of files available for download with lists of files wanted. Devices may connect via a network connection exchange information via a network connection and create a chat session via a network connection. The match indicator includes text messages icons a list of files downloadable from another device and a list of files requested by another device.

As an example a user may store a profile for an on line service onto a wireless device before entering a wireless coverage area such as a building bus store or the like. The user s wireless device receives profiles corresponding to content provided by the online service broadcasted by nearby wireless devices within the wireless coverage area. The user s wireless device determines a match between the user s profile and the content s profile. If the user s wireless device determines a match the user s wireless device displays a match indicator. In this manner the user is matched with content based on the user s proximity to other users such as information about nearby users with matching interests information relating to a store where the user is shopping or the like.

This brief summary has been provided so that the nature of the invention may be understood quickly. A more complete understanding of the invention can be obtained by reference to the following detailed description appended claims and accompanying drawings.

Wireless devices and are devices equipped with wireless radio transceivers for communication on a wireless local area network or WLAN for example wireless devices that operate in accordance with the WiFi IEEE 802.11 protocol Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 or the like. Examples include cellular phones laptops special purpose wireless devices or the like. A special purpose wireless device may be for example a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive with an embedded wireless system and a display.

Users can transfer their profiles to wireless devices and from the Internet using network interface hardware such as wireless interface hardware of Ethernet interface hardware or any other suitable network interface hardware. Also users can transfer a profile stored on another device such as a computer to their wireless device using for example a Universal Serial Bus USB interface Bluetooth interface or the like.

In this first embodiment wireless devices communicate using WiFi but this should not be viewed as a limitation of this invention. Wireless devices and have wireless interface hardware such as wireless interface hardware of and corresponding logic for the WiFi protocol such as software or firmware of . The firmware of wireless devices and contains a module that adds additional functionality to the WiFi protocol such as firmware module of . The module adds functionality for adding profiles to information elements of broadcasted WiFi beacon frames or WiFi probe response frames. The module also adds functionality for extracting profiles from received WiFi beacon frames or WiFi probe response frames.

Wireless network connection is a WiFi network connection between wireless devices and . Beacon is a WiFi beacon frame or a WiFi probe response frame. Because the transmission ranges of WiFi beacon frames and WiFi probe response frames are limited beacon may only be received by nearby wireless devices.

In this embodiment one way to determine nearby wireless devices is presence within a peer to peer WiFi network. Such networks do not rely on network infrastructure such as access points and can function without a network infrastructure. Wireless devices within a wireless coverage area may form peer to peer WiFi networks. By virtue of the fact that peer to peer WiFi transmissions have a limited range a wireless device s presence within a peer to peer WiFi network may indicate to other wireless devices that the wireless device is nearby.

Wireless device advertises a stored profile by continuously broadcasting beacon containing the stored profile in an information element. Because wireless device is within the same wireless coverage area as wireless device namely wireless coverage area wireless device receives beacon containing the profile advertised by wireless device . Because wireless device is not within wireless coverage area wireless device does not receive the profile advertised by wireless device . Therefore wireless device does not discover wireless device s presence.

Upon receiving beacon wireless device extracts the advertised profile from beacon and determines a match between the advertised profile and a profile stored on wireless device . If there is a match wireless device displays a match indicator such as a text message an icon the content of the received profile a portion of the received profile or the like. A user of wireless device can then choose to create a wireless network connection such as wireless network connection for exchanging information with wireless device .

Wireless interface hardware may be a removable wireless interface card or a wireless interface chip embedded in a laptop cell phone or the like. Wireless interface hardware transmits and receives information between other wireless devices using the WiFi protocol. Firmware is a set of instructions stored on a memory of wireless interface hardware . Firmware contains instructions for transmitting and receiving information between other wireless devices through wireless interface hardware using the WiFi protocol. Firmware contains firmware module . Firmware module is a set of additional instructions that adds additional functionality to the WiFi protocol. Firmware module adds functionality for adding profiles to information elements of broadcasted WiFi beacon frames or WiFi probe response frames. Firmware module also adds functionality for extracting profiles from received WiFi beacon frames or WiFi probe response frames.

To advertise a profile application uses driver to send the profile to firmware module via firmware API . Firmware module then generates a beacon which may be a WiFi beacon frame or a WiFi probe frame containing the profile in an information element. After the beacon is generated firmware module sends a command to wireless interface hardware for broadcasting the beacon at regular intervals.

To receive a profile from another wireless device firmware module extracts a profile from a WiFi beacon frame or a WiFi probe response frame received by wireless interface hardware and sends the extracted profile to application via firmware API and driver . Because the transmission range of wireless devices using the WiFi protocol is limited wireless interface hardware may only receive WiFi beacon frames or WiFi probe response frames transmitted from nearby wireless devices.

Application then determines whether a match exists between a stored profile and the received profile and displays a match indication if there is a match. Application determines a match by comparing keywords in the received profile with keywords in the stored profile.

If there is a match between profiles application may issue a command to firmware for creating a WiFi connection between the wireless device and the wireless device that advertised the received profile.

In block the wireless device determines whether a profile contained in the received beacon matches a profile stored on the wireless device. If the wireless device determines that there is no match between the two profiles processing returns to block where the wireless device continues listening for received beacons.

If the wireless device determines that there is a match between the two profiles processing proceeds to block where the wireless device displays a match indication. Processing then proceeds to block where the wireless device determines whether it should perform an action. If the wireless device determines that it should not perform an action processing returns to block where the wireless device continues listening for received beacons.

If the wireless device determines that it should perform an action processing proceeds to block where the wireless device performs an action. After the wireless device has performed the action processing returns to block where the wireless device continues listening for received beacons.

Wireless devices and are wireless devices similar to wireless devices and shown in . Wireless network connection is similar to wireless network connection of . Beacon is a WiFi beacon frame or a WiFi probe response frame. Because the transmission ranges of WiFi beacon frames and WiFi probe response frames are limited beacon may only be received by nearby wireless devices.

Users and are users of an on line social networking service such as Yahoo Personals Match.com MySpace Linked In Facebook or the like and have each stored a copy of their on line personal profile onto wireless devices and respectively. Neither user nor is logged onto the Internet. The personal profiles of users and such as personal profile contain personal preferences and attributes. Attributes may be the user s on line ID age gender height pictures and the like. Personal preferences may be dating preferences interests and the like.

In this embodiment the proximity of users is determined by the presence of users within a WiFi coverage area such as wireless coverage areas and . Users and are nearby since they are in the same wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area . User is not near users and since user is in another wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area .

User advertises personal profile stored on wireless device by continuously broadcasting beacon which contains personal profile in an information element. User may either advertise all the information in personal profile or some of the information in personal profile . Because wireless device is within the same wireless coverage area as wireless device namely wireless coverage area wireless device receives beacon containing personal profile . Because wireless device is not within wireless coverage area wireless device does not receive personal profile . Therefore user does not discover user s presence.

Upon receiving beacon wireless device extracts personal profile from beacon and determines a match between personal profile and user s stored personal profile. Wireless device determines a match by comparing the personal preferences and attributes of personal profile with the personal preferences and attributes of user s personal profile in the same manner that the on line service would match the two personal profiles if users and were logged onto the Internet. If there is a match wireless device displays a match indicator such as a text message an icon the content of personal profile a portion of personal profile or the like. Upon noticing the match indicator user may perform an action.

For example if personal profile contains enough information user may identify user within wireless coverage area and meet user in person. User may also advertise user s personal profile to allow user to identify user . Additionally user may create a wireless network connection such as wireless network connection between wireless devices and so that users and can exchange additional information or start a chat session. Finally user may store personal profile on wireless device so that user can log onto the Internet later and communicate with user using the on line service.

Wireless devices and are wireless devices similar to wireless devices and shown in . Wireless network connection is similar to wireless network connection of . Beacon is a WiFi beacon frame or a WiFi probe response frame. Because the transmission ranges of WiFi beacon frames and WiFi probe response frames are limited beacon may only be received by nearby wireless devices.

Users and are users of an on line classifieds service such as Craig s List E Bay or the like. User has stored a copy of user s on line seller profile onto wireless device . User s seller profile contains attributes about the items user is selling on the on line classifieds service. Users and have stored a copy of their on line buyer profiles onto wireless devices and respectively. These buyer profiles contain attributes about the items users and want to buy. Additionally these buyer profiles may contain purchasing information such as an E Bay ID PayPal ID credit card number and the like for users and . Neither user nor is logged onto the Internet.

In this embodiment the proximity of users is determined by the presence of users within a WiFi coverage area such as wireless coverage areas and . Users and are nearby since they are in the same wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area . User is not near users and since user is in another wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area .

User advertises seller profile stored on wireless device by continuously broadcasting beacon which contains seller profile in an information element. User may either advertise all the information in seller profile or some of the information in seller profile . Because wireless device is within the same wireless coverage area as wireless device namely wireless coverage area wireless device receives beacon containing seller profile . Because wireless device is not within wireless coverage area wireless device does not receive seller profile . Therefore user is not aware of the items user s is selling.

Upon receiving beacon wireless device extracts seller profile from beacon and determines a match between the items listed for sale in seller profile and the wanted items listed in user s buyer profile. If there is a match wireless device displays a match indicator such as a text message an icon information about the matching items for sale by user information about user and the like. Upon noticing the match indicator user may perform an action.

For example if seller profile contains enough information user may identify user within wireless coverage area and meet user in person. User may also advertise user s buyer profile to indicate user s interest to buy and or allow user to identify user . Additionally user may create a wireless network connection such as wireless network connection between wireless devices and so that users and can exchange additional information or start a chat session. Finally user may store seller profile on wireless device so that user can log onto the Internet later and complete the sale with user using the on line service.

Wireless devices and are wireless devices similar to wireless devices and shown in . Wireless network connection is similar to wireless network connection of . Beacons and are WiFi beacon frames or WiFi probe response frames. Because the transmission ranges of WiFi beacon frames and WiFi probe response frames are limited beacons and may only be received by nearby wireless devices.

Product display is a display unit displaying items for sale in a store. A product profile containing information about the products displayed by product display such as a product ID price product specifications and the like is stored on wireless device .

User is a user of an on line shopping service for receiving product information and discounts. User has stored a copy of user s on line shopping profile onto wireless device . User s shopping profile may contain attributes about items user wants to buy such as product ID s and desired prices user s shopping history coupons and the like. User is not logged onto the Internet.

Access point is a wireless device that connects wireless local area network WLAN clients such as wireless devices and to shopping server via local area network connection . Shopping server hosts a comparative shopping service for providing targeted advertisements and discounts to a user based upon the user s shopping profile.

In this embodiment the proximity of users is determined by the presence of users within a WiFi coverage area such as wireless coverage area . Here wireless coverage area is a store and product display and shopping server are users whose presence within the store may be detected by other users such as user .

User product display and access point are nearby since they are all inside the same store. User advertises the shopping profile stored on wireless device by continuously broadcasting beacon containing the stored shopping profile in an information element. User may either advertise all the information in the profile or some of the information in the profile. Because access point is within the same wireless coverage area as wireless device namely wireless coverage area access point receives beacon containing the shopping profile advertised by user .

Upon receiving beacon access point extracts the advertised shopping profile from beacon and forwards the shopping profile to shopping server . Shopping server determines a match between the items listed in user s shopping profile and targeted advertisements and discounts available from the store. If there is a match shopping server may create wireless network connection connecting shopping server and wireless device via access point and send wireless device targeted advertisements and discounts. Wireless device then displays the targeted advertisements and discounts and user can use this information while shopping in the store.

Product display advertises the product profile stored on wireless device by continuously broadcasting beacon containing the stored product profile in an information element. Because wireless device is within the same wireless coverage area as wireless device namely wireless coverage area wireless device receives beacon containing the product profile advertised by product display .

Upon receiving beacon wireless device extracts the advertised product profile from beacon and determines a match between product ID s listed in the product profile and the product ID s listed in user s shopping profile. If there is a match wireless device displays a match indicator such as a text message an icon information about the items displayed by product display or the like.

Wireless devices and are wireless devices similar to wireless devices and shown in . Wireless network connection is similar to wireless network connection of . Beacon is a WiFi beacon frame or a WiFi probe response frame. Because the transmission ranges of WiFi beacon frames and WiFi probe response frames are limited beacon may only be received by nearby wireless devices.

Users and are users of an on line game service such as Xbox Liver or the like. The on line game service allows users to play on line games with each other. Users and have each stored a copy of their on line game profile onto wireless devices and respectively. Neither user nor is logged onto the Internet. The game profiles of users and such as game profile list the games each user can play and information for each game. Users and may play games on wireless devices and respectively.

In this embodiment the proximity of users is determined by the presence of users within a WiFi coverage area such as wireless coverage areas and . Users and are nearby since they are in the same wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area . User is not near users and since user is in another wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area .

User advertises game profile stored on wireless device by continuously broadcasting beacon which contains game profile in an information element. User may either advertise all the information in game profile or some of the information in game profile . Because wireless device is within the same wireless coverage area as wireless device namely wireless coverage area wireless device receives beacon containing game profile . Because wireless device is not within wireless coverage area wireless device does not receive game profile . Therefore user does not discover user s presence.

Upon receiving beacon wireless device extracts game profile from beacon and determines a match between game profile and user s stored game profile. Wireless device determines a match by comparing the games listed in game profile with the games listed in user s game profile. If there is a match wireless device displays a match indicator such as a text message an icon a list of matching games or the like. Upon noticing the match indicator user may create a wireless network connection such as wireless network connection between wireless devices and so that users and can exchange additional information start a chat session or start a game session. After a game session is complete users and can store any changes to their game profiles as a result of the game session onto devices and respectively for uploading to the on line gaming service when they are logged onto the Internet.

Wireless devices and are wireless devices similar to wireless devices and shown in . Wireless network connection is similar to wireless network connection of . Beacon is a WiFi beacon frame or a WiFi probe response frame. Because the transmission ranges of WiFi beacon frames and WiFi probe response frames are limited beacon may only be received by nearby wireless devices.

Users and are users of an on line media distribution service such as iTunes BitTorrent or the like. The on line media distribution service allows users to download files. Users and have each stored copies of their on line media profiles onto wireless devices and respectively. The media profiles of users and such as media profile list the files available for download from a user s wireless device and the files a user wants to download from another user s wireless device. Neither user nor is logged onto the Internet.

In this embodiment the proximity of users is determined by the presence of users within a WiFi coverage area such as wireless coverage areas and . Users and are nearby since they are in the same wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area . User is not near users and since user is in another wireless coverage area namely wireless coverage area .

User advertises media profile stored on wireless device by continuously broadcasting beacon which contains the stored media profile in an information element. User may either advertise all the information in media profile or some of the information in media profile . Because wireless device is within the same wireless coverage area as wireless device namely wireless coverage area wireless device receives beacon containing media profile . Because wireless device is not within wireless coverage area wireless device does not receive media profile . Therefore user does not discover user s presence.

Upon receiving beacon wireless device extracts media profile from beacon and determines a match between media profile and user s stored media profile. Wireless device determines a match by comparing the files listed in media profile with the files listed in user s media profile. If either user s media profile lists files available for download that the other user wants to download there is a match. If there is a match wireless device displays a match indicator such as a text message an icon a list of files available for download from another user a list of files another user wants to download or the like. Upon noticing the match indicator user may create a wireless network connection such as wireless network connection between wireless devices and so that users and can exchange additional information start a chat session or exchange files.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with respect to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

