---

title: Presenting information for a current location or time
abstract: A computing system is described that obtains, based at least in part on information included in at least one previous communication associated with a user of a computing device, an indication of a future location and a future time and event information associated with the future location and the future time. The computing system obtains a duration of time for the user to travel from a current location of the computing device to the future location, and, based at least in part on the duration of time, obtains a departure time at which the user is predicted to need to depart from the current location in order to arrive at the future location by an arrival time based on the event. The computing system outputs, for transmission to the computing device, an indication associated with the event and including information indicative of the departure time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09587947&OS=09587947&RS=09587947
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09587947
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150818
---
This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 455 075 filed Aug. 8 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 952 454 filed Jul. 26 2013 which is a continuation in part of Application Serial No. PCT US2013 47182 filed Jun. 21 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 790 539 filed Mar. 15 2013 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 663 049 filed Jun. 22 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 663 813 filed Jun. 25 2012 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

A mobile computing device e.g. a mobile phone tablet computer etc. may function as a personal digital assistant PDA a phone a camera an e mail client an Internet browser and a global positioning system GPS navigation device. The mobile computing device may be used to search for information about an upcoming airline flight nearby attractions such as shows events and concerts nearby real estate listings local movie times etc. A user may search within this information e.g. using such a mobile computing device on the Internet within e mail accounts and within other information repositories stored locally or accessible by the mobile computing device. Finding a particular piece of information within all this data can be daunting and time consuming however.

In one example the disclosure is directed to a method that includes obtaining by a computing system and based at least in part on information included in at least one previous communication associated with a user of a computing device an indication of a future location and a future time and obtaining by the computing system information associated with an event the event being associated with the future location and the future time. The method further includes obtaining by the computing system a duration of time for the user of the computing device to travel from a current location of the computing device to the future location and obtaining by the computing system based at least in part on the duration of time a departure time at which the user of the computing device is predicted to need to depart from the current location of the computing device in order to arrive at the future location by an arrival time the arrival time being determined based at least in part on the event. The method further includes outputting by the computing system for transmission to the computing device an indication associated with the event the indication including information indicative of the departure time.

In another example the disclosure is directed to a computing system that includes a at least one processor and at least one module operable by the at least one processor to obtain based at least in part on information included in at least one previous communication associated with a user of a computing device an indication of a future location and a future time and obtain information associated with an event the event being associated with the future location and the future time. The at least one module is further operable by the at least one processor to obtain a duration of time for the user of the computing device to travel from a current location of the computing device to the future location and obtain based at least in part on the duration of time a departure time at which the user of the computing device is predicted to need to depart from the current location of the computing device in order to arrive at the future location by an arrival time the arrival time being determined based at least in part on the event. The at least one module is further operable by the at least one processor to output for transmission to the computing device an indication associated with the event the indication including information indicative of the departure time.

The details of one or more examples are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In general techniques of this disclosure may enable a computing device to present graphical indications associated with information also referred herein as data obtained from previously received communications that include references to one or more future locations future times future activities and or future events associated with a future location and or future time. The computing device may customize the graphical indication to a specific activity that occurs at one or more future location and or future time.

The computing device may present the graphical indications as one or more cards of information within a graphical user interface GUI . In some examples the graphical indication may be a notification an alert or other type of graphical and or audible indication the computing device may output for alerting a user about information that may be relevant to a current time and or a current location such as event and activity information.

The computing device may present information cards of varying types and categories e.g. the information may depend on the specific activity that a user may perform at the future location and or the future time . Some examples of the types of information cards may include flight related information attraction related information e.g. movie and event information real estate listing information financial stock related information package tracking information weather information transportation transit related information and other types of information. Rather than require a user to search for a particular piece of information the computing device can output predicted information that the user would otherwise search for and include the predicted information within for example one or more information cards.

The computing device may analyze previous communications only if the computing device receives permission from the user to analyze the information. For example in situations discussed below in which the computing device may collect or may make use of personal information about the user e.g. from previous communications the user may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features of the computing device can collect user information e.g. information about a user s e mail a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to the computing device may receive content that may be relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used by the computing device so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined about the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by the computing device.

Network of computing system represents any public or private communication network for instance a cellular Wi Fi and or other type of network for transmitting data between computing devices. Computing device and information server system may send and receive data across network using any suitable communication techniques. For example computing device may be operatively coupled to network using network link A. Information server system may be operatively coupled to network by network link B. Network may include network hubs network switches network routers etc. that are operatively inter coupled thereby providing for the exchange of information between computing device and information server system . In some examples network links A and B may be Ethernet ATM or other network connections. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

Information server system of system represents any suitable remote computing system such as one or more desktop computers laptop computers mainframes servers cloud computing systems etc. capable of sending and receiving information across network link B to network . In some examples information server system represents a cloud computing system that provides one or more services through network . One or more computing devices such as computing device may access the one or more services provided by the cloud using information server system . For example computing device may store and or access data in the cloud using information server system .

Information server system includes information retrieval module communication data store A and navigation data store B. Information retrieval module may perform operations described using software hardware firmware or a mixture of hardware software and firmware residing in and or executing at Information server system . Information server system may execute information retrieval module with multiple processors or multiple devices. Information server system may execute information retrieval module as a virtual machine executing on underlying hardware. Information retrieval module may execute as a service of an operating system or computing platform. Information retrieval module may execute as one or more executable programs at an application layer of a computing platform.

Data stores A and B represent any suitable storage medium for storing data related to communications and navigation. For example data store A may store communications information such as one or more previously received e mail communications text message communications and the like. The communications information may be organized within data store A according to account names or addresses. Information server system may access the data within data store A for instance by looking up an e mail account address and obtaining one or more e mail communications associated with the e mail account. Data stores B may store navigation information such as digital maps navigation durations navigation directions and the like. Information server system may provide access to the data stored at data stores A and B as a cloud based data access service to devices connected to network such as computing device .

Information retrieval module may perform functions for responding to information requests from computing device related to the data stored in data stores A and B and other data stored remote to information server system e.g. data on the Internet . For instance information retrieval module may receive a request from computing device via network link B for an estimated duration of time e.g. a trip time for an expected travel route to walk from one geographical location to another. Information retrieval module may access data within data store B and or data on the Internet or otherwise stored remotely to information server system to provide information in response to the request by sending the information to computing device via network link B and through network . For instance information retrieval module may obtain traffic conditions along a route of travel from a current location to a future location and based on the traffic conditions determine the duration of time to travel the route.

In the example of computing device may be a mobile computing device such as a mobile phone a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a portable gaming device a portable media player an e book reader a watch a television platform an automobile navigation system a wearable computing platform or any other type of computing device. As shown in computing device includes a user interface device UID . UID of computing device may function as an input device for computing device and as an output device. UID may be implemented using various technologies. For instance UID may function as a graphical input device using a presence sensitive input display such as a resistive touchscreen a surface acoustic wave touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen a projective capacitance touchscreen a pressure sensitive screen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or another presence sensitive display technology. UID may further function as an audio input device such as a microphone. UID may function as a graphical output e.g. display device using any one or more display devices such as a liquid crystal display LCD dot matrix display light emitting diode LED display organic light emitting diode OLED display e ink or similar monochrome or color display capable of outputting visible information to the user of computing device . UID may function as an audible output device such as a speaker for outputting instructions associated with an audio based user interface.

UID of computing device may include a presence sensitive display that may receive tactile input from a user of computing device . UID may receive indications of the tactile input by detecting one or more gestures from a user of computing device e.g. the user touching or pointing to one or more locations of UID with a finger or a stylus pen . UID may present output to a user for instance at a presence sensitive display. UID may present the output as a graphical user interface e.g. user interface which may be associated with functionality provided by computing device . For example UID may present various user interfaces of applications executing at or accessible by computing device e.g. an electronic message application a navigation application an Internet browser application etc. . A user may interact with a respective user interface of an application to cause computing device to perform operations relating to a function.

Computing device may include user interface UI module device location module user data analysis module and suggestion module . Modules and may perform operations described using software hardware firmware or a mixture of hardware software and firmware residing in and or executing at computing device . Computing device may execute modules and with multiple processors. Computing device may execute modules and as a virtual machine executing on underlying hardware. Modules and may execute as one or more services of an operating system a computing platform. Modules and may execute as one or more remote computing services such as one or more services provided by a cloud and or cluster based computing system. Modules and may execute as one or more executable programs at an application layer of a computing platform.

UI module may cause UID to present user interface . User interface includes graphical indications e.g. elements displayed at various locations of UID . illustrates information card card as one example graphical indication within user interface . As described in more detail below card includes information relevant to a particular time and location of computing device . UI module may receive information from suggestion module for instance when computing device obtains an indication that the current location of computing device corresponds to a future location associated with previous communications. In response to the information from suggestion module UI module may cause UID to output for display card within user interface . In some examples rather than cause UID to output a graphical user interface such as card within user interface UI module may cause UID to output an audio based user interface that outputs audio based on the information within card and user interface .

Device location module may determine a current location of computing device and a current time. For example computing device may receive signal data from one or more radios of computing device e.g. global positioning system GPS radio cellular radio Wi Fi radio and the like and based on the signal data determine the current time and the current location of computing device . In some examples device location module may determine a relative location and or determine a current location based on signal triangulation e.g. a technique for determining a single location based on relative position data received from two or more signals . In some examples device location module may determine location data as coordinate e.g. GPS location data. In other examples device location module may determine a location as one or more general or relative locations such as an address a place a country a city a type of building e.g. a library an airport etc. a business etc.

In some examples device location module may obtain the current location of computing device and or the current time from information server system via network . For instance in response to a Wi Fi network identifier received from device location module information server system may send GPS coordinates of computing device to device location module . Device location module may output location and time data to other modules of computing device such as suggestion module .

User data analysis UDA module of computing device may tag or classify portions of information associated with previous communications and or other data with a marker that indicates whether the portion of information corresponds to a location a time an activity an event etc. UDA module may format the portions of information for later inclusion as graphical content within a graphical indication associated with an activity and or event. In other words UDA module may classify or tag information by at least applying one or more location tags and one or more time tags to the information. UDA module may obtain indications of future locations future times activities and future events associated that are each associated with information included in previous communications e.g. e mail messages text based messages voicemails social media posts Internet search queries application interactions webpage history etc. and or other data received by computing device . For example UDA module may rely on data mining techniques and parse textual data contained within previously received communications to isolate words and or phrases that indicate future locations future times of day activities and future events that may be of interest to a user of computing device . The previous communications may be stored locally at computing device and or remotely at information server system . Likewise the data mining techniques may be performed locally at computing device by UDA module and or performed by information server system and accessible to UDA module through an application programming interface to a remote computing based service e.g. in a cloud .

The data mining techniques performed or accessed by UDA module may result in the tagging or classifying of portions of information included in the previous communications with pointers e.g. tags to mark those portions that indicate future locations future times of day activities and future events. Other modules of computing device such as suggestion module can later retrieve the tagged or classified portions of information by retrieving the data pointed to by the tags. The other modules may further search for location and or time tags associated with portions of communication information that correspond to a current location of computing device a current time of day an activity and or an event to determine which portions of communication information may be relevant to the current location the current time the activity and or event.

To track relationships between portions of the previously received communications the data mining techniques performed and or accessed by UDA module may generate links between related location time activity and event tags. That is a time and or location tag corresponding to one portion of communication data may link to an activity tag of other related portions of communication data.

UDA module may format and categorize the tagged or classified portions of information within the communication data. Other modules of computing device such as suggestion module may utilize the formatted portions of information within different categories of graphical indications such as one or more categories of information cards e.g. card . For example computing device may present different categories of information cards that relate to different activities events etc. that the user may perform at a future location and or at a future time. Examples of information card categories e.g. events and activities may include information cards related to electronic tickets e tickets movie show times events attractions transportation and or travel information e.g. flight information package tracking real estate etc. UDA module may format the tagged or classified portions of communication data into a format that can later be retrieved by suggestion module and incorporated into different fields of information cards.

For example UDA module and or information server may associate one or more fields of information cards with each category of information card that relates to an activity performed at a future location and or a future time. A flight information card may include fields that identify a date a time an airport a flight number a passenger name etc. of a flight that a user may board at a future time. A movie show time card may include fields of information that indicate when and where a movie is playing at a particular theatre that a user may attend at a future time. A package tracking card may include fields of information that indicate a package tracking number an estimated delivery date and time etc. of a package that a user may receive at a future time. Other information cards may include other fields specific to that category e.g. activity of information card e.g. real estate cards event cards attraction cards other package tracking cards etc. that relate to activities associated with the user at a future location and or a future time. UDA module and or information server may data mine tag and format the portions of previous communications e.g. an e mail confirming a ticket purchase a package tracking e mail browsing histories webpage data and third party application data of applications executing at computing device . Other modules of computing device such as suggestion module may search the tags and retrieve the formatted portions of information in one or more fields of an information card.

Computing system including information server and computing device may analyze previous communications and other data only if computing device receives permission from the user to analyze the information. For example in situations in which computing system may collect data mine analyze and or otherwise make use of personal information about the user the user may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features of computing system can collect user information e.g. previous communications information about a user s e mail a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to computing system may receive content that may be relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used by computing system so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined about the user or a user s current location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by computing system .

Suggestion module of computing device may manage requests from a user or an application executing at computing device to display graphical indications of information that may be of interest to the user at a particular time and or when the current location of computing device corresponds to a particular place. For example in response to an indication of an input detected at UID and received by UI module suggestion module may cause UI module to output graphical indications of information cards for display at UID within user interface . Likewise suggestion module may automatically e.g. without user intervention cause UI module to present graphical indications of information cards at UID when the current time and or current location of computing device corresponds to a particular time and or place. In some examples rather than cause UID to output a graphical user interface such as user interface UI module may cause UID to output an audio based user interface that includes audible information associated with the information within information cards.

A graphical indication of information may include the formatted and tagged or classified portions of previous communications associated with a user of computing device and or received by computing device . The graphical indication of information may further include other information that may not be explicitly included in the previous communications but is related to the information contained in the previous communications. For instance while the previous communications may include indications of future locations times activities and or events suggestion module may include other accessible data e.g. credentials navigation directions predicted time of travel durations Internet accessible content and the like related to the information contained in the previous communications.

Whether suggestion module is invoked automatically by computing device or in response to user interaction suggestion module may determine whether the current location of computing device and or the current time corresponds to any of the tags associated with the tagged or classified portions of communication data identified by UDA module . In other words suggestion module may search previous communications for one or more portions of information which have time and or location tags which may be relevant to the current location of computing device and or the current time of day.

Suggestion module may compare location and time data obtained from device location module to the location and time values of the location and time tags associated with the formatted communication data obtained by UDA module . Based on the comparison to the values of the tags suggestion module may identify portions of tagged or classified communication data that may be of interest to the user at the current time and or the current location. In other words suggestion module may obtain an indication of the future location and the future time by determining that a location value of at least one of the one or more location tags is associated with the current location and that a time value of at least one of the one or more time tags is associated with the current time.

For example suggestion module may parse the tagged or classified communication data for one or more location and or time tags that match the current location of computing device and or the current time. In some examples matching location and time tags may respectively identify locations and times that are within a threshold distance and or a threshold amount of time from the current location of computing device and or the current time. In some examples identifying matching tags may include determining matching categories of information such as an activity and or event tags that link to the matching time and or location tags. In other words suggestion module may determine that the location value of at least one of the one or more location tags is associated with the current location and that the time value of at least one of the one or more time tags is associated with the current time by obtaining an indication that the location value is within a threshold distance of the current location and that the time value is within a threshold time of the current time.

Suggestion module may include the formatted portions of communication information associated with the matching tags within fields of information cards. Suggestion module may transmit and cause UI module to present one or more graphical indications of the information cards at UID within user interface .

In some examples suggestion module may obtain other information related to the portions of communication information that have matching tags. Suggestion module may include the other information within the fields of the information cards presented at UID . The other information may be stored locally at computing device and or provided by information server system . The other information may include information related to the category or activity associated with the information card that suggestion module causes UI module to present at UID such as navigation category activity entertainment category activity real estate category activity commercial transportation category activity etc. The other information related to the category activity may be information obtained from the Internet and related to an activity and or event associated with the information cards.

Suggestion module of computing device may obtain an indication of a future location and a future time associated with information included in at least one previous communication. Suggestion module computing device may further obtain an activity associated with the future location and the future time. Suggestion module may obtain an indication of a future time a future location and a category activity associated with the future time and the future location when the future location matches the current location and the future time matches the current time.

For example computing device may execute an application that receives one or more communications over time. With explicit permission from the user to access personal information such previous communications UDA module and or information server system may data mine the one or more previous communications for keywords and phrases that may indicate future times and future locations associated with future activities events and the like. UDA module and or information server system may tag and format portions of the one or more previous communications for inclusion in fields of one or more information cards. Suggestion module of computing device may periodically and or automatically monitor the current location of computing device and the current time obtained from device location module and parse the time and location tags associated with the previous communications to determine whether any portions of the tagged or classified communication data is relevant to the current location and or current time and or an event or activity associated with the current location and or current time.

In response to determining that the current location and the current time of day match the location and or time tags of the previous communications suggestion module may obtain an indication of the future location and the future time. Suggestion module may identify one or more matching portions of tagged or classified communication data as those portions which have location tags within a threshold distance e.g. one mile one block one hour drive etc. of the current location and or those portions which have time tags within a threshold time e.g. one hour one day etc. of the current time. In response to identifying one or more activity tags that link to the matching time and or location tags suggestion module may obtain the activity indicated by the linking activity tags that are associated with the future time and future location.

Suggestion module generate one or more graphical indications associated with the activity and determine one or more times related to the activity for causing UI module to present the one or more graphical indications at UID . For example suggestion module may obtain navigation information such as a duration of time e.g. a trip time for an expected travel route for a user associated with computing device to travel from a current location of computing device to the future location. For instance suggestion module may obtain the duration of time in response to a query for a travel duration to information server system . The duration of time may be based at least in part on traffic conditions determined by information server system along a route of travel from the current location to the future location for instance at the current time of day.

Suggestion module may utilize the duration to determine when e.g. a departure time to cause UI module to present one or more graphical indications associated with the activity at UID . In other words based on the duration suggestion module may obtain the departure time at which the user is predicted to need to leave the current location to travel in order to arrive at the future location at an arrival time at least prior to the future time. The arrival time may indicate an estimated and or recommended time for a user to arrive at the future location prior to the future time in order for the user to perform the associated activity. For example if the activity is traveling by airplane the future location corresponds to an airport and the future time corresponds to time to board the airplane the arrival time may be one hour prior to the boarding time to allow a user enough time after arriving at the airport to check bags and or pass through security checkpoints. Suggestion module may determine the departure time based on the arrival time and the duration in order for the user to travel from the current location of computing device to arrive at the future location prior to the arrival time by at least the duration.

In response to determining that the current time corresponds to or is within a time threshold e.g. one hour etc. of the departure time suggestion module of computing device may cause UI module to output a graphical indication associated with the tagged or classified communication information linked to the future time the future location and the activity at UID . For example suggestion module may populate the fields of an information card associated with the activity with the portions of previous communications which are linked to the matching tags. For instance illustrates an air travel information card that includes air travel information obtained from an e mail confirmation that was sent to an e mail account associated with the user after the user booked an airplane ticket. Suggestion module may generate a graphical indication of the information card and cause UI module to automatically e.g. without user intervention output the graphical indication for display and or an audible indication at UID at the departure time.

In some examples suggestion module may obtain additional information e.g. information not included within the previous communications to include within the fields of the information card associated with the activity. For example suggestion module may retrieve a credential e.g. a boarding pass image a bar code a Quick Response QR code etc. associated with the activity from information server system or some other source of network e.g. on the Internet . illustrates a QR code that suggestion module obtained from an airline s online check in system.

In this way computing device may automatically or upon request from the user present graphical indications e.g. information cards associated with information from previous communications. The graphical indications may include information that computing device determines may be of interest to the user at a current location and or a current time. A user of computing device may spend less time searching through previous communications and or on the Internet with computing device to find information relevant to the current location of computing device and or the current time. With the user performing fewer searches computing device may perform fewer operations and use less power.

As shown in the example of computing device includes user interface device UID one or more processors one or more input devices one or more communication units one or more output devices and one or more storage devices . Storage devices of computing device also include UI module device location module user data analysis UDA module and suggestion module . Communication channels may interconnect each of the components and for inter component communications physically communicatively and or operatively . In some examples communication channels may include a system bus a network connection an inter process communication data structure or any other method for communicating data.

One or more input devices of computing device may receive input. Examples of input are tactile audio and video input. Input devices of computing device in one example includes a presence sensitive display touch sensitive screen mouse keyboard voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting input from a human or machine.

One or more output devices of computing device may generate output. Examples of output are tactile audio and video output. Output devices of computing device in one example includes a presence sensitive display sound card video graphics adapter card speaker cathode ray tube CRT monitor liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device for generating output to a human or machine.

One or more communication units of computing device may communicate with external devices via one or more networks by transmitting and or receiving network signals on the one or more networks. For example computing device may use communication unit to send and receive data to and from information server system of . Computing device may use communication unit to transmit and or receive radio signals on a radio network such as a cellular radio network. Likewise communication units may transmit and or receive satellite signals on a satellite network such as a global positioning system GPS network. Examples of communication unit include a network interface card e.g. such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver a GPS receiver or any other type of device that can send and or receive information. Other examples of communication units may include short wave radios cellular data radios wireless Ethernet network radios as well as universal serial bus USB controllers.

In some examples UID of computing device may include functionality of input devices and or output devices . In the example of UID may be or may include a presence sensitive input device. In some examples a presence sensitive input device may detect an object at and or near a screen. As one example range a presence sensitive input device may detect an object such as a finger or stylus that is within inches or less of the screen. The presence sensitive input device may determine a location e.g. an x y coordinate of a screen at which the object was detected. In another example range a presence sensitive input device may detect an object six inches or less from the screen and other ranges are also possible. The presence sensitive input device may determine the location of the screen selected by a user s finger using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques. In some examples presence sensitive input device also provides output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli as described with respect to output device e.g. at a display. In the example of UID presents a user interface such as user interface of .

While illustrated as an internal component of computing device UID also represents and external component that shares a data path with computing device for transmitting and or receiving input and output. For instance in one example UID represents a built in component of computing device located within and physically connected to the external packaging of computing device e.g. a screen on a mobile phone . In another example UID represents an external component of computing device located outside and physically separated from the packaging of computing device e.g. a monitor a projector etc. that shares a wired and or wireless data path with a tablet computer .

One or more storage devices within computing device may store information for processing during operation of computing device e.g. computing device may store data accessed by modules and during execution at computing device . In some examples storage device is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of storage device is not long term storage. Storage devices on computing device may configured for short term storage of information as volatile memory and therefore not retain stored contents if powered off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than volatile memory. Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information as non volatile memory space and retain information after power on off cycles. Examples of non volatile memories include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. Storage devices may store program instructions and or data associated with modules and .

One or more processors may implement functionality and or execute instructions within computing device . For example processors on computing device may receive and execute instructions stored by storage devices that execute the functionality of UI module device location module UDA module and suggestion module . These instructions executed by processors may cause computing device to store information within storage devices during program execution. Processors may execute instructions of modules and to cause UID to present user interface with information card at UID . That is modules and may be operable by processors to perform various actions or functions of computing device for instance causing UID to present user interface at UID .

Computing device may be part of a mobile communications network such as network of and as described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 663 049 filed Jun. 22 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 663 813 filed Jun. 25 2012 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference and to which this disclosure claims priority. Computing device may exchange data with a server or cloud computing system over the mobile communications network. The server or cloud computing system may perform some or all of the techniques and operations related to modules and described herein. In other words some or all of the techniques and operations related to modules and can be implemented locally at computing device for instance a mobile phone and some or all of the techniques and operations may by performed remotely via a server connected to the mobile communications network that exchanges data with computing device . In other words while shown in as being included within computing device modules and may be a part of a remote computing system and may execute as one or more remote computing services such as one or more services provided by a cloud and or cluster based computing system.

Suggestion module of computing device may obtain an indication of a future location and a future location associated with information included in at least one previous communication. Suggestion module of computing device may further obtain an activity associated with the future location and the future time. For example computing device may execute an electronic message e.g. an e mail text based voicemail etc. application that receives one or more communications over time. With explicit permission from the user to access personal information such as previous communications UDA module may data mine the information associated with one or more previous communications for keywords and phrases that may indicate future important times future locations activities and events e.g. activities or events related to the future locations and or future times . Events may include public events such as movies airplane flights other entertainment performances etc. and personal events or events that are not necessarily public in nature such as birthday parties meetings social gatherings etc.

In other words UDA module may search within the content of the information for one or more key words that indicate a future location a future time and or event e.g. an activity and or event performed by a user at the future location and or the future time . UDA module may tag the portions of the information that contain the one or more keywords with one or more location tags and or one or more time tags.

Suggestion module may obtain the indication of the future location and the future time by matching at least one of the one or more location tags to the current location and at least one of the one or more time tags to the current time. For example periodically and or automatically suggestion module may determine that the at least one of the one or more location tags comprises a location value within a threshold distance of the current location of computing device that suggestion module obtained from device location module . Suggestion module may further determine periodically and or automatically that the at least one of the one or more time tags comprises a time value within a threshold time of the current time obtained from device location module . In other words suggestion module may periodically and or automatically compare the current location and the current time to the location and time tags generated by UDA module to determine whether portions of previous communications information may be relevant to the current location and the current time.

Suggestion module of computing device may further data mine a portion of the information associated with previous communications e.g. the pieces of information that UDA module tags with one or more location and time tags for one or more keywords associated with one or more events or activities associated with the user of computing device such as traveling attending a performance show movie concert etc. receiving a package visiting real estate and the like. In obtaining the indication of the activity associated with the future location and the future time suggestion module may identify at least one of the one or more keywords with the portion of the information. In other words by parsing the location and time tagged or classified communication information for one or more keywords associated with one or more activities and events and suggestion module may determine an activity and or event associated with the future location and the future time.

Suggestion module may cause UI module to present one or more graphical indications associated with the events and or activities identified within the communication information at UID at certain times to assist the user in planning and or otherwise making better use of the communication information. In other words once suggestion module obtains an indication that the future location and the future time match e.g. are within a threshold of the current location and the current time suggestion module may present information associated with the events and or activities obtained from the communication information that suggestion module predicts would interest the user of computing device .

In some examples suggestion module of computing device may obtain a duration of time e.g. a trip time for an expected travel route for a user associated with computing device to travel from a current location of computing device to the future location. Suggestion module of computing device may obtain based at least in part on the duration a departure time at which the user is predicted to need to leave the current location to travel in order to arrive at the future location at an arrival time at least prior to the future location and time. For example the information may include navigation directions reminders and the like so the user can better plan and or perform the associated activity and or event at the future location and the future time. Suggestion module may obtain e.g. from information server system a predicted duration of time e.g. a trip time for an expected travel route for the user to travel from the current location to the future location. With the predicted duration suggestion module may obtain a predicted departure time that indicates when suggestion module should alert notify or otherwise indicate to the user that he or she should begin traveling to the future location in order to arrive at the future location in time to attend the event and or perform the activity.

Suggestion module may determine the arrival time based on the type of the activity and or the type of the event occurring at the future location and the future time. In some examples the arrival time that the departure time is at least partially based on may be prior to the future time by a determined amount of time based at least in part on the activity. In other words suggestion module may obtain a determined amount of time e.g. a time buffer based on the type of activity and or the type of the event occurring at the future location and the future time prior to the future time that may provide the user an amount of time needed to perform the activity and or attend the event at the future time.

For instance the determined amount of time may be one hour of time if the type of the event or the type of activity is traveling by air to provide the user enough time to check baggage and pass through security at an airport at the future location before the time to board an airplane at the future time. Likewise the determined amount of time may be fifteen minutes of time if the type of activity or the type of the event the user is attending is a movie showing to provide the user enough time to purchase a ticket and find a seat in a theatre at the future location before the movie starts at the future time. Suggestion module may determine the arrival time as a time at least prior to the future time by the determined amount of time and the departure time may be at least prior to the arrival time by the predicted duration.

In other words suggestion module may determine the arrival time based on the event suggestion module may determine the arrival time based on the activity and or suggestion module may determine the arrival time based on the type of the event or the type of activity. For example if the activity is playing in an amateur soccer game suggestion module may determine the arrival time to be fifteen minutes prior to the future time of the soccer match to allow the user enough time to stretch and put on his or her cleats and shin guards before the game. If the event is attending a professional baseball game suggestion module may determine the arrival time to be thirty minutes before the opening pitch to allow the user enough time to enter the stadium and take his or her seat. If the type of activity is traveling by air or the type the of event is the departure of an aircraft suggestion module may determine the arrival time to be one hour before the departure time or one hour before the boarding time to allow the user enough time to pass through security at the airport and or check luggage at the gate. In any event suggestion module may determine the arrival time based on the future time and suggestion module may determine the arrival time based on the type of the event based on the type of activity based on the event and or based on the activity.

In any event in response to obtaining an indication that the current time corresponds to the departure time suggestion module of computing device may cause UI module to output for display and or audio an audible and or graphical indication associated with the information at UID . For instance in response to obtaining an indication from device location module that the current time corresponds to the departure time suggestion module may generate an information card associated with the activity and or event that is occurring at the future location at the future time.

Suggestion module may obtain portions of the tagged or classified communications information that UDA module formatted during the data mining of future locations future times activities and or events. Suggestion module may include the portions of information within fields of one or more information cards related to the activity and or event associated with the future location and or the future time. For instance suggestion module may include navigation directions the predicted duration of travel time to the future location a map showing the future location relative to the current location etc. within a graphical indication of card that UI module outputs for display at UID .

In some examples the graphical indication associated with the information may include customized information based on the specific activity and or event associated with the future location and the future time. For example the graphical indication may include a credential associated with the activity e.g. an electronic ticket barcode QR code etc. that the user may need to show to enter the event and or perform the activity.

In some examples in response to obtaining an indication that the current location of the computing device corresponds to the future location and or in response to obtaining an indication that the current time corresponds to the future time suggestion module may cause UI module to output for display an updated graphical indication associated with the activity. In other words in response to obtaining an indication that the current location associated with computing device is within a distance threshold e.g. one mile one block five minute walk etc. of the future location and or that the current time is within a time threshold e.g. fifteen minutes one hour etc. of the future time suggestion module may update the graphical indication of information card to include different and or additional information e.g. updated navigation directions a credential an electronic ticket a boarding pass etc. than the information included in the graphical indication that UI module outputted for display at the departure time.

In some examples suggestion module of computing device may cause UI module to output for display the graphical indication of card in response to an indication of an input to surface a credential associated with the activity. For example a user may provide an input such as a gesture at a location of UID . Suggestion module may obtain information about the gesture from UI module and determine the gesture indicates a request from the user to present card at UID . Suggestion module may cause UI module to output for display the graphical indication of card including a credential at UID . For instance shows a QR code associated with an airplane ticket that the user may show to the ticketing agent prior to boarding an airplane.

As shown in the example of computing device may be a processor that includes functionality as described with respect to processor in . In such examples computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display by a communication channel A which may be a system bus or other suitable connection. Computing device may also be operatively coupled to communication unit further described below by a communication channel B which may also be a system bus or other suitable connection. Although shown separately as an example in FIG. computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display and communication unit by any number of one or more communication channels.

In other examples such as illustrated previously by computing device in a computing device may refer to a portable or mobile device such as mobile phones including smart phones laptop computers computing watches computing eye glasses wearable computing devices etc. In some examples a computing device may be a desktop computers tablet computers smart television platforms cameras personal digital assistants PDAs servers mainframes etc.

Presence sensitive display may include display device and presence sensitive input device . Display device may for example receive data from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive input device may determine one or more inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at presence sensitive display using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such input to computing device using communication channel A. In some examples presence sensitive input device may be physically positioned on top of display device such that when a user positions an input unit over a graphical element displayed by display device the location at which presence sensitive input device corresponds to the location of display device at which the graphical element is displayed. In other examples presence sensitive input device may be positioned physically apart from display device and locations of presence sensitive input device may correspond to locations of display device such that input can be made at presence sensitive input device for interacting with graphical elements displayed at corresponding locations of display device .

As shown in computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with communication unit . Communication unit may include functionality of communication unit as described in . Examples of communication unit may include a network interface card an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such communication units may include Bluetooth 3G and Wi Fi radios Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. Computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with one or more other devices e.g. input devices output devices memory storage devices etc. that are not shown in for purposes of brevity and illustration.

Projector screen in some examples may include a presence sensitive display . Presence sensitive display may include a subset of functionality or all of the functionality of UI device as described in this disclosure. In some examples presence sensitive display may include additional functionality. Projector screen e.g. an electronic display of computing eye glasses may receive data from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive display may determine one or more inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at projector screen using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such input using one or more communication units to computing device .

As described above in some examples computing device may output graphical content for display at presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by a system bus or other suitable communication channel. Computing device may also output graphical content for display at one or more remote devices such as projector projector screen mobile device and visual display device . For instance computing device may execute one or more instructions to generate and or modify graphical content in accordance with techniques of the present disclosure. Computing device may output the data that includes the graphical content to a communication unit of computing device such as communication unit . Communication unit may send the data to one or more of the remote devices such as projector projector screen mobile device and or visual display device . In this way computing device may output the graphical content for display at one or more of the remote devices. In some examples one or more of the remote devices may output the graphical content at a presence sensitive display that is included in and or operatively coupled to the respective remote devices.

In some examples computing device may not output graphical content at presence sensitive display that is operatively coupled to computing device . In other examples computing device may output graphical content for display at both a presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by communication channel A and at one or more remote devices. In such examples the graphical content may be displayed substantially contemporaneously at each respective device. For instance some delay may be introduced by the communication latency to send the data that includes the graphical content to the remote device. In some examples graphical content generated by computing device and output for display at presence sensitive display may be different than graphical content display output for display at one or more remote devices.

Computing device may send and receive data using any suitable communication techniques. For example computing device may be operatively coupled to external network using network link A. Each of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled to network external network by one of respective network links B C and D. External network may include network hubs network switches network routers etc. that are operatively inter coupled thereby providing for the exchange of information between computing device and the remote devices illustrated in . In some examples network links A D may be Ethernet ATM or other network connections. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

In some examples computing device may be operatively coupled to one or more of the remote devices included in using direct device communication . Direct device communication may include communications through which computing device sends and receives data directly with a remote device using wired or wireless communication. That is in some examples of direct device communication data sent by computing device may not be forwarded by one or more additional devices before being received at the remote device and vice versa. Examples of direct device communication may include Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus Wi Fi infrared etc. One or more of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled with computing device by communication links A D. In some examples communication links A D may be connections using Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus infrared etc. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

Computing device may be operatively coupled to visual display device using external network . Computing device may obtain an indication of a future location and a future time associated with information included in at least one previous communication. For example computing device may execute an e mail application that receives one or more e mail messages over time. With explicit permission from the user to access personal information such as e mail computing device may data mine the one or more e mail messages for keywords and phrases that may indicate future important times locations activities and events. Computing device may apply time location activity and or event tags to portions of information within the e mail communications for later retrieval.

Computing device may determine that a current location of computing device and a current time correspond to a future location and a future time associated with the tagged or classified e mail communications. For example computing device determine that the current location is within a distance threshold of a location value of a location tag and that the current time is within a time threshold of a time value of a time tag. Computing device may identify the portions of the e mail communications associated with the matching location and time tags as being relevant to the current location and current time. Computing device may data mine the portions of the e mail communications for one or more activity and or event keywords and obtain an activity associated with the future location and the future time indicated by the tagged or classified e mail communications.

Computing device may obtain a duration of time e.g. a trip time for an expected travel route for a user associated with the computing device to travel from a current location of the computing device to the future location and further obtain based at least in part on the duration a departure time at which the user is predicted to need to leave the current location to travel in order to arrive at the future location at an arrival time at least prior to the future time. In response to obtaining an indication that the current time corresponds to the departure time computing device may output for display a graphical indication associated with the tagged or classified portions of the e mail communications. For example computing device may include portions of the previous communications that have been formatted according to the associated activity and or event into data that represents graphical representations of information cards e.g. card . Computing device may send the data that represents the graphical representations to visual display device over external network . Based on the data received over external network visual display device may output for display a graphical indication associated with the information from the e mail communications.

In the example of mobile phone presents information card e.g. at a screen of UID which includes information about an online real estate listing of an apartment for rent. Mobile phone may obtain based on previous communications related to internet searches for property listings on the internet or e mail communications with a realtor a future location and or a future time associated with at least a portion of information included in the previous communications. For instance mobile phone may determine a street location or an area of a city within the previous communications and tag the previous communications with the street location.

When a user of mobile phone enters the area of the city indicated by the e mail communications mobile phone may determine the current location of mobile phone corresponds to the location tag of the e mail communication and present information card that includes one or more online listings of real estate in the area e.g. information card may include portions of the information in the e mail communication with the realtor that includes the one or more online listings . In this way whether the user requested to view information card or mobile phone automatically presented information card a user is alerted about information of interest to the user for a current time and a current location of mobile phone .

In the example of mobile phone presents information card e.g. at a screen of UID which includes information about an e ticket for a movie showing at a theatre. Mobile phone may determine based on a previous e mail communication confirming the online purchase of a movie ticket a location and a time associated with at least a portion of information included in the previous communication. For instance mobile phone may determine an address of the movie theatre and a time the movie is playing based on the previous e mail communication and may tag the previous communication with the address and the time.

When a user of mobile phone enters the movie theatre indicated in the e mail confirmation at a time just prior to the start of the movie mobile phone may determine the current location of mobile phone and the current time corresponds to the location tag of the e mail communication and present information card at UID e.g. the screen of mobile phone that includes the e ticket. In this way whether the user requested to view information card by providing an input to present a credential associated with the e ticket or whether mobile phone automatically presented information card a user does not need to search for the e ticket confirmation e mail with mobile phone while at the theatre at the time of the movie. Instead the user is alerted about the e ticket at the appropriate time and place indicated by the e mail confirmation when the current location of mobile phone and the current time corresponds to the location and time of the movie.

In the example of mobile phone presents information card e.g. at a screen of UID which includes information about a movie showing at a movie theatre. Mobile phone may determine by data mining and time and location tagging or classifying of previous communications e.g. social network interactions between a user and friends a location associated with at least a portion of information included in the previous communications. For instance mobile phone may determine a street location of a theatre mentioned within the previous communications and tag the previous communications with the street location.

When a user of mobile phone enters within a threshold distance of the theatre e.g. one mile fifteen minute walk etc. with mobile phone mobile phone may determine that the current location of mobile phone corresponds to the location tag of the previous social media communications e.g. the movie theatre and present information card that includes a popular movie playing at the nearby theatre in the immediate future e.g. at 10 25 pm . In this way whether the user requested to view information card or mobile phone automatically presented information card a user is alerted about information of interest to the user for a current time and a current location of mobile phone .

Computing device may determine based on previous communications a location associated with at least a portion of information included in the previous communications . For example computing device may data mine and or otherwise parse communications for information having a time and or location dependency such as flight confirmations e tickets etc. Computing device may tag the previous communications with location and time data for later retrieval.

Computing device may determine a current device location of computing device . For example a user interacting with computing device may interact with user interface . The user may provide a gesture at a presence sensitive input device of computing device to command computing device to present information cards within user interface . In response to an indication of the gesture detected at the presence sensitive input device computing device may determine the current device location of computing device e.g. GPS coordinates and the current time.

Computing device may determine based at least in part on the current device location that the current location corresponds to the location associated with the portion of the information . For example to determine information that the user may find relevant to the current device location and current time computing device may parse the previous communications for location and time tags corresponding to the current location and the current time. Computing device may retrieve the portions of the previous communications having location and time tags that match the current location and the current time. In some examples computing device may determine the matching location and time tags based on approximate correlations between the location and time tags of portions of communication data and the current location and or the current time. For example computing device may identify location and time tags of portions of communication data having values that are within a threshold quantity of distances and or time to the current location and the current time. In other words computing device may search and identify location tags of data that are within a location threshold e.g. two blocks five miles etc. of the current location. Computing device may search and identify matching time tags of data that are within a time threshold e.g. one day two hours twenty minutes etc. of the current time.

Computing device may output for display a graphical indication of the portion of the information . For example computing device may present one or more information cards within user interface at a display device e.g. the presence sensitive screen .

Suggestion module of computing device may obtain an indication of a future location and a future time associated with information included in at least one previous communication . For example suggestion module may compare the current location of computing device and the current time obtained from device location module to location and time tags within previous communication information previously data mined by UDA module . Suggestion module may determine the current location and the current time corresponds to the location of a movie theatre and the start time of a movie within an e mail confirmation of a movie ticket purchase received from an online ticketing agent.

Suggestion module of computing device may obtain an event associated with the future location and the future time . For example suggestion module may identify an activity and or event tag within the portions of the e mail confirmation tagged or classified by UDA module that indicates the movie showing at the theatre at the start time.

Suggestion module of computing device may obtain a duration of time e.g. a trip time for an expected travel route for a user associated with computing device to travel from a current location of the computing device to the future location . For example suggestion module may obtain navigation directions and a predicted duration of travel time e.g. from information server system or from data stored locally at computing device for a user to walk drive etc. from the current location obtained from device location module to the future location associated with the theatre.

Based at least in part on the duration suggestion module of computing device may obtain a departure time at which the user is predicted to need to leave the current location to travel in order to arrive at the future location at the future time . For example suggestion module may determine an arrival time prior to the start time of the movie that may provide the user enough time to walk to his or her seat in the theater and or purchase refreshments and not miss the beginning of the movie. Based on the arrival time and the estimated duration of time e.g. the trip time for an expected travel route to travel to the theater suggestion module may determine a departure time e.g. a time that is prior to the arrival time by at least the predicted travel duration that the user needs to leave a current location to arrive at the theatre at the arrival time. Suggestion module may store the departure time as additional information within the activity and or event tag within the portions of the e mail confirmation tagged or classified by UDA module that indicates the movie showing at the theatre at the start time.

Suggestion module of computing device may obtain an indication that the current time corresponds to the departure time . For example suggestion module may obtain the current time from device location module and periodically and or automatically compare the current time to the portions of e mail communications tagged or classified by UDA module . Suggestion module may determine the current time is within a time threshold e.g. one day one hour one minute etc. of the departure time associated with the movie activity event tag.

Suggestion module of computing device may cause UI module to output for display a graphical indication associated with the information . For example in response to determining the current time corresponds to the departure time of the movie suggestion module may incorporate portions of the e mail ticket confirmation and or other data about the movie navigation directions etc. into a graphical indication of an information card. Suggestion module may send data that represents the graphical indication of the information card to UI module to cause UI module to present the information card at UID .

In some examples the computing system may determine the arrival time based on a type of the event. In some examples the computing system may output for transmission to the computing device an indication of a credential associated with the event. The indication of the credential may be based at least in part on a type of the event.

In some examples responsive to obtaining an indication that the current location of the computing device is within a distance threshold of the future location the computing system may output for transmission to the computing device an indication of the credential associated with the event. In some examples responsive to obtaining an indication that a current time is within a threshold amount of time of the future time the computing system may output for transmission to the computing device an indication of a credential associated with the event. In some examples responsive to obtaining an indication that a current time is within a threshold amount of time of the arrival time the computing system may output for transmission to the computing device an indication of a credential associated with the event.

In some examples the indication associated with the event may be outputted for transmission to the computing device in response to obtaining by the computing system an indication that a current time is within a threshold amount of time of the departure time. In some examples the computing system may obtain the departure time by determining based at least in part on traffic conditions along a travel route from the current location of the computing device to the future location.

In some examples the computing system may receive from the computing device a request for a credential associated with the event. The indication associated with the event may be output for transmission in response to receiving the request and includes information indicative of the credential.

In some examples the computing system may classify the information included in the at least one previous communication by at least applying one or more location tags and one or more time tags to the information. The computing system may obtain the indication of the future location and the future time by determining that a location value of at least one of the one or more location tags is associated with the current location of the computing device and that a time value of at least one of the one or more time tags is associated with a current time.

In some examples the computing system may determine that the location value of at least one of the one or more location tags is associated with the current location of the computing device and that the time value of at least one of the one or more time tags is associated with the current time comprises by obtaining an indication that the location value is within a threshold distance of the current location of the computing device and that the time value is within a threshold time of the current time.

In some examples the computing system may obtain the information associated with the event by identifying at least one keyword associated with the event within a portion of the information included in the one or more previous communications wherein the at least one keyword is based on a type of the event.

In some examples the arrival time may be prior to the future time by an amount of time. The amount of time may be determined based at least in part on the event.

In one or more examples the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code a computer readable medium and executed by a hardware based processing unit. Computer readable media may include computer readable storage media which corresponds to a tangible medium such as data storage media or communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another e.g. according to a communication protocol. In this manner computer readable media generally may correspond to 1 tangible computer readable storage media which is non transitory or 2 a communication medium such as a signal or carrier wave. Data storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by one or more computers or one or more processors to retrieve instructions code and or data structures for implementation of the techniques described in this disclosure. A computer program product may include a computer readable medium.

By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if instructions are transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. It should be understood however that computer readable storage media and data storage media do not include connections carrier waves signals or other transient media but are instead directed to non transient tangible storage media. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Instructions may be executed by one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable logic arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects the functionality described herein may be provided within dedicated hardware and or software modules. Also the techniques could be fully implemented in one or more circuits or logic elements.

The techniques of this disclosure may be implemented in a wide variety of devices or apparatuses including a wireless handset an integrated circuit IC or a set of ICs e.g. a chip set . Various components modules or units are described in this disclosure to emphasize functional aspects of devices configured to perform the disclosed techniques but do not necessarily require realization by different hardware units. Rather as described above various units may be combined in a hardware unit or provided by a collection of interoperative hardware units including one or more processors as described above in conjunction with suitable software and or firmware.

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

