---

title: Detector unit and sensing chamber therefor
abstract: According to one embodiment, a hazard detector may include a back plate and a front casing coupled to the back plate to define a housing having an interior region and an opening through which air flows into the interior region. A circuit board may be coupled to the back plate and have a plurality of components mounted thereon. A smoke chamber may be mid-mounted on the circuit board, mid-mounting being characterized in the smoke chamber extending through a hole formed in the circuit board such that a top surface of the smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of the circuit board and a bottom surface of the smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board, whereby an interior region of the smoke chamber is accessible to smoke from both the top and bottom surfaces of the circuit board.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460600&OS=09460600&RS=09460600
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09460600
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150226
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 835 439 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 007 222 filed Mar. 15 2013 entitled Detector Unit and Sensing Chamber Therefor which claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 704 437filed Sep. 21 2012 entitled Devices Methods and Associated Information Processing for the Smart Sensored Home the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

Some homes today are equipped with smart home networks to provide automated control of devices appliances and systems such as heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system lighting systems alarm systems home theater and entertainment systems. Smart home networks may include control panels that a person may use to input settings preferences and scheduling information that the smart home network uses to provide automated control the various devices appliances and systems in the home. For example a person may input a desired temperature and a schedule indicating when the person is away from home. The home automation system uses this information to control the HVAC system to heat or cool the home to the desired temperature when the person is home and to conserve energy by turning off power consuming components of the HVAC system when the person is away from the home. Also for example a person may input a preferred nighttime lighting scheme for watching television. In response when the person turns on the television at nighttime the home automation system automatically adjusts the lighting in the room to the preferred scheme.

Embodiments of the invention provide various hazard devices that may be used within a home building or structure to warn occupants of the home building or structure of a potential danger. In one embodiment a smoke detection unit is described. The smoke detection unit may be used for or in a building or structure for detecting the presence of smoke. The smoke detection unit includes a housing having an interior region within which components of the smoke detection unit are contained. The housing has a plurality of openings through which air flows so as to be accessible to the interior region of the housing. The housing includes a back plate that is couplable to a wall of the building or structure so as to secure the smoke detection unit relative thereto. The smoke detection unit also includes a front casing coupled to the back plate to define the interior region of the housing and a circuit board coupled to the back plate. The circuit board includes a plurality of components mounted thereon so as to support the components and electrically couple the components.

Among the components mounted on or with the circuit board the smoke detection unit includes an alarm device that is activatable upon the detection of the presence of smoke so as to warn an occupant of the building or structure of a potential fire or other danger. The smoke detection unit also includes a smoke chamber mounted on the circuit board. The smoke chamber has a top surface that faces outwardly in a direction of the front casing a bottom surface that faces toward a direction of the back plate and one or more sides that define an interior chamber containing one or more components that are configured to detect the presence of smoke so as to trigger the alarm device. The smoke chamber may be a photoelectric or optical chamber an ionization type chamber and the like for detecting the presence of smoke.

The smoke chamber includes a plurality of baffles that are positioned on at least one side of the smoke chamber. In some embodiments e.g. the optical photoelectric chamber the baffles may be configured to shield light from entering the interior chamber while allowing a substantially unimpeded flow of air to the interior chamber. The smoke chamber is mounted on the circuit board such that the top surface of the smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board. In this configuration the interior chamber or region of the smoke chamber is accessible to smoke from both the top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the circuit board.

In some embodiments the smoke detection unit further includes a plate that is coupled with the smoke detection unit adjacent the smoke chamber and circuit board so that the plate restricts access to the circuit board. The plate is coupled with the smoke detection unit such that the top surface of the smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of the plate and the bottom surface of the smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of the plate. The plate provides a relatively smooth surface that directs air to flow from an edge of the smoke detection unit toward the smoke chamber.

In some embodiments the front casing comprises a plurality of holes through which air flows so as to be accessible to the interior region of the housing and to the smoke chamber. In such embodiments a collective area of said plurality of holes of the front casing may be between about 20 and 40 of the front casing. In some embodiments the circuit board may also include a carbon monoxide detector. The carbon monoxide detector may be mounted on the circuit board such that the top surface of the carbon monoxide detector is positioned above a top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the carbon monoxide detector is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board such that air is accessible to the carbon monoxide detector from both the top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the circuit board. The smoke detection unit may additionally include an additional air flow dependent sensor that is mounted on the circuit board such that the top surface of the air flow dependent sensor is positioned above a top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the air flow dependent sensor is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board such that air is accessible to the air flow dependent sensor from both the top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the circuit board.

The smoke chamber may include a plurality of baffles that are positioned on the top surface of the smoke chamber so that air is flowable into the smoke chamber from both the top surface and from one or more sides. In one embodiment the smoke chamber has a cylindrical configuration with baffles positioned circumferentially around the smoke chamber and baffles positioned on either or both the top surface or the bottom surface of the smoke chamber.

In some embodiments the smoke detection unit may be configured to transmit a message to a user regarding a condition related to the detection of smoke such as the sensitivity of the smoke chamber or other detection device the occurrence of false alarms and the like. The smoke detection unit may be configured to reduce a sensitivity of the smoke chamber based on a reading of one or more other sensors of the smoke detection unit e.g. humidity sensor heat sensor and the like so as to reduce the occurrence of false signals.

In some embodiments the smoke detector may additionally include a heat producing electrical component e.g. a microprocessor and the like mounted on the circuit board. Air flow that enters or exits the smoke chamber may be flowable to the heat producing electrical component such as to cool the electrical component. In a specific embodiment the heat producing electrical component may be a microprocessor that is mounted on the top or bottom surface of the circuit board. In another embodiment the smoke detector may include a second microprocessor that is mounted on the top or bottom surface of the circuit board. The configuration of the circuit board and the components mounted thereon e.g. the mid mounted smoke chamber and the like may facilitate air flow to the microprocessors on one or both sides of the circuit board and thereby help cool the components.

In another embodiment a method of using a smoke detector is described. The method includes providing a smoke detector and operating the smoke detector to detect smoke. As described herein the smoke detector may include a housing having an interior region and at least one opening through which air flows so as to be accessible to the interior region of the housing. The housing may include a back plate couplable to a wall of a structure to secure the smoke detector to the structure a front casing coupled to the back plate to define the interior region of the housing and a circuit board coupled to the back plate and having a plurality of components mounted thereon. The plurality of components may include an alarm device and a smoke chamber. The smoke chamber may be coupled to the circuit board such that air is flowable into the smoke chamber from one side of the circuit board and flowable out of the smoke chamber from an opposite side of the circuit board so as to provide substantially unimpeded flow of air into the smoke chamber.

In another embodiment a method for manufacturing a smoke detector is described. The method includes providing a back plate and coupling a front casing with the back plate. As described herein the back plate is couplable to a wall of a structure so as to secure the smoke detector to the structure. The front casing is coupled to the back plate so as to define a housing having an interior region within which components of the smoke detector are contained. Either or both the front casing or the back plate includes openings through which air flows so as to be accessible to the interior region of the housing.

The method also includes coupling a circuit board with the back plate. The circuit board is configured to support and electrically couple one or more components of the smoke detector. The method further includes providing a smoke chamber and coupling the smoke chamber with the circuit board. The smoke chamber has a plurality of baffles positioned on at least one side of the smoke chamber and the smoke chamber is coupled to the circuit board such that a top surface of the smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of the circuit board and a bottom surface of the smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board so that smoke is flowable into the smoke chamber from both the top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the circuit board.

According to another embodiment a smoke detector is described. The smoke detector includes a back plate that is couplable to a wall of a structure to secure the smoke detector to the structure. The smoke detector also includes a front casing coupled to the back plate to define a housing having an interior region and at least one opening through which air flows so as to be accessible to the interior region of the housing. The smoke detector further includes a circuit board coupled to the back plate and having a plurality of components mounted thereon and a smoke chamber. The smoke chamber is mid mounted on the circuit board. Mid mounting is characterized in that the smoke chamber extends through a hole formed in the circuit board such that a top surface of the smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of the circuit board and a bottom surface of the smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board whereby an interior chamber is accessible to smoke from both the top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the circuit board.

In some embodiments the smoke chamber comprises baffles positioned on a side surface top surface and bottom surface of the smoke chamber so as to be accessible into an interior of the smoke chamber from any side. In some embodiments the smoke detector additionally includes a plate coupled adjacent the circuit board and smoke chamber such that the plate restricts access to the circuit board and such that that the top surface of the smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of the plate and the bottom surface of the smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of the plate. The plate may provide a relatively smooth surface that directs air to flow from an edge of the smoke detector toward the smoke chamber. In some embodiments the circuit board may also include a carbon monoxide detector.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same numerical reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components and or features. If only the first numerical reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components and or features having the same first numerical reference label irrespective of the letter suffix.

The ensuing description provides exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the exemplary embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing one or more exemplary embodiments. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits systems networks processes and other elements in the invention may be shown as components in block diagram form in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that individual embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process may be terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not discussed or included in a figure. Furthermore not all operations in any particularly described process may occur in all embodiments. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instruction s and or data. A code segment or machine executable instructions may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

Furthermore embodiments of the invention may be implemented at least in part either manually or automatically. Manual or automatic implementations may be executed or at least assisted through the use of machines hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks.

Turning to the figures illustrates an example of a smart home environment within which one or more of the devices methods systems services and or computer program products described further herein can be applicable. The depicted smart home environment includes a structure which can include e.g. a house office building garage or mobile home. It will be appreciated that devices can also be integrated into a smart home environment that does not include an entire structure such as an apartment condominium or office space. Further the smart home environment can control and or be coupled to devices outside of the actual structure . Indeed several devices in the smart home environment need not physically be within the structure at all. For example a device controlling a pool heater or irrigation system can be located outside of the structure .

The depicted structure includes a plurality of rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that can integrate seamlessly with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives. The smart home environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats herein after referred to as smart thermostats one or more intelligent network connected multi sensing hazard detection units herein after referred to as smart hazard detectors and one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected entryway interface devices herein after referred to as smart doorbells . According to embodiments the smart thermostat detects ambient climate characteristics e.g. temperature and or humidity and controls a HVAC system accordingly. The smart hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous substance or a substance indicative of a hazardous substance e.g. smoke fire or carbon monoxide . The smart doorbell may detect a person s approach to or departure from a location e.g. an outer door control doorbell functionality announce a person s approach or departure via audio or visual means or control settings on a security system e.g. to activate or deactivate the security system when occupant go and come .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches herein after referred to as smart wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces herein after referred to as smart wall plugs . The smart wall switches may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states and control a power and or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances smart wall switches may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. The smart wall plugs may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs e.g. such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home .

Still further in some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances herein after referred to as smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth. According to embodiments the network connected appliances are made compatible with the smart home environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window AC unites motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in an appliance can announce itself to the smart home network such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication by the appliance to the smart home can be facilitated by any wired or wireless communication protocols known by those having ordinary skill in the art. The smart home also can include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled albeit coarsely ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plugs . The smart home environment can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances such as infrared IR controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the smart hazard detectors or the smart wall switches .

According to embodiments the smart thermostats the smart hazard detectors the smart doorbells the smart wall switches the smart wall plugs and other devices of the smart home environment are modular and can be incorporated into older and new houses. For example the devices are designed around a modular platform consisting of two basic components a head unit and a back plate which is also referred to as a docking station. Multiple configurations of the docking station are provided so as to be compatible with any home such as older and newer homes. However all of the docking stations include a standard head connection arrangement such that any head unit can be removably attached to any docking station. Thus in some embodiments the docking stations are interfaces that serve as physical connections to the structure and the voltage wiring of the homes and the interchangeable head units contain all of the sensors processors user interfaces the batteries and other functional components of the devices.

Many different commercial and functional possibilities for provisioning maintenance and upgrade are possible. For example after years of using any particular head unit a user will be able to buy a new version of the head unit and simply plug it into the old docking station. There are also many different versions for the head units such as low cost versions with few features and then a progression of increasingly capable versions up to and including extremely fancy head units with a large number of features. Thus it should be appreciated that the various versions of the head units can all be interchangeable with any of them working when placed into any docking station. This can advantageously encourage sharing and re deployment of old head units for example when an important high capability head unit such as a hazard detector is replaced by a new version of the head unit then the old head unit can be re deployed to a backroom or basement etc. According to embodiments when first plugged into a docking station the head unit can ask the user by 2D LCD display 2D 3D holographic projection voice interaction etc. a few simple questions such as Where am I and the user can indicate living room kitchen and so forth.

The smart home environment may also include communication with devices outside of the physical home but within a proximate geographical range of the home. For example the smart home environment may include a pool heater monitor that communicates a current pool temperature to other devices within the smart home environment or receives commands for controlling the pool temperature. Similarly the smart home environment may include an irrigation monitor that communicates information regarding irrigation systems within the smart home environment and or receives control information for controlling such irrigation systems. According to embodiments an algorithm is provided for considering the geographic location of the smart home environment such as based on the zip code or geographic coordinates of the home. The geographic information is then used to obtain data helpful for determining optimal times for watering such data may include sun location information temperature due point soil type of the land on which the home is located etc.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of can further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet or other portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone . A webpage or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control the smart thermostat and other smart devices in the smart home environment using a network connected computer or portable electronic device . In some examples some or all of the occupants e.g. individuals who live in the home can register their device with the smart home environment . Such registration can be made at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. An occupant can use their registered device to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation. The occupant may also use their registered device to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant sitting on a couch inside the home. It should be appreciated that instead of or in addition to registering devices the smart home environment makes inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which devices are associated with those individuals. As such the smart home environment learns who is an occupant and permits the devices associated with those individuals to control the smart devices of the home.

In some instances guests desire to control the smart devices. For example the smart home environment may receive communication from an unregistered mobile device of an individual inside of the home where said individual is not recognized as an occupant of the home. Further for example smart home environment may receive communication from a mobile device of an individual who is known to be or who is registered as a guest.

According to embodiments a guest layer of controls can be provided to guests of the smart home environment . The guest layer of controls gives guests access to basic controls e.g. a judicially selected subset of features of the smart devices such as temperature adjustments but it locks out other functionalities. The guest layer of controls can be thought of as a safe sandbox in which guests have limited controls but they do not have access to more advanced controls that could fundamentally alter undermine damage or otherwise impair the occupant desired operation of the smart devices. For example the guest layer of controls won t permit the guest to adjust the heat pump lockout temperature.

A use case example of this is when a guest in a smart home the guest could walk up to the thermostat and turn the dial manually but the guest may not want to walk the house hunting the thermostat especially at night while the home is dark and others are sleeping. Further the guest may not want to go through the hassle of downloading the necessary application to their device for remotely controlling the thermostat. In fact the guest may not have to the home owner s login credentials etc. and therefore cannot remotely control the thermostat via such an application. Accordingly according to embodiments of the invention the guest can open a mobile browser on their mobile device type a keyword such as NEST into the URL field and tap Go or Search etc. In response the device presents with guest with a user interface such as Thermozilla UI which allows the guest to move the target temperature between a limited range such as 65 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. As discussed the user interface provides a guest layer of controls that are limited to basic functions. The guest cannot change the target humidity modes or view energy history.

According to embodiments to enable guests to access the user interface that provides the guest layer of controls a local webserver is provided that is accessible in the local area network LAN . It does not require a password because physical presence inside the home is established reliably enough by the guest s presence on the LAN. In some embodiments during installation of the smart device such as the smart thermostat the home owner is asked if they want to enable a Local Web App LWA on the smart device. Business owners will likely say no home owners will likely say yes. When the LWA option is selected the smart device broadcasts to the LAN that the above referenced keyword such as NEST is now a host alias for its local web server. Thus no matter whose home a guest goes to that same keyword e.g. NEST is always the URL you use to access the LWA provided the smart device is purchased from the same manufacturer. Further according to embodiments if there is more than one smart device on the LAN the second and subsequent smart devices do not offer to set up another LWA. Instead they register themselves as target candidates with the master LWA. And in this case the LWA user would be asked which smart device they want to change the temperature on before getting the simplified user interface such as Thermozilla UI for the particular smart device they choose.

According to embodiments a guest layer of controls may also be provided to users by means other than a device . For example the smart device such as the smart thermostat may be equipped with walkup identification technology e.g. face recognition RFID ultrasonic sensors that fingerprints or creates a signature for the occupants of the home. The walkup identification technology can be the same as or similar to the fingerprinting and signature creating techniques descripted in other sections of this application. In operation when a person who does not live in the home or is otherwise not registered with or whose fingerprint or signature is not recognized by the smart home walks up to a smart device the smart devices provides the guest with the guest layer of controls rather than full controls.

As described below the smart thermostat and other smart devices learn by observing occupant behavior. For example the smart thermostat learns occupants preferred temperature set points for mornings and evenings and it learns when the occupants are asleep or awake as well as when the occupants are typically away or at home for example. According to embodiments when a guest controls the smart devices such as the smart thermostat the smart devices do not learn from the guest. This prevents the guest s adjustments and controls from affecting the learned preferences of the occupants.

According to some embodiments a smart television remote control is provided. The smart remote control recognizes occupants by thumbprint visual identification RFID etc. and it recognizes users as guests or as someone belonging to a particular class having limited control and access e.g. child . Upon recognizing the user as a guest or someone belonging to a limited class the smart remote control only permits that user to view a subset of channels and to make limited adjustments to the settings of the television and other devices. For example a guest cannot adjust the digital video recorder DVR settings and a child is limited to viewing child appropriate programming.

According to some embodiments similar controls are provided for other instruments utilities and devices in the house. For example sinks bathtubs and showers can be controlled by smart spigots that recognize users as guests or as children and therefore prevents water from exceeding a designated temperature that is considered safe.

In some embodiments in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities each of the devices and collectively referred to as the smart devices is capable of data communications and information sharing with any other of the smart devices as well as to any central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The required data communications can be carried out using any of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. 

According to embodiments all or some of the smart devices can serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart device via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet . Through the Internet the smart devices can communicate with a central server or a cloud computing system . The central server or cloud computing system can be associated with a manufacturer support entity or service provider associated with the device. For one embodiment a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates can be automatically sent from the central server or cloud computing system to devices e.g. when available when purchased or at routine intervals .

According to embodiments the smart devices combine to create a mesh network of spokesman and low power nodes in the smart home environment where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Some of the smart devices in the smart home environment are battery powered while others have a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to wiring e.g. to 120V line voltage wires behind the walls of the smart home environment. The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source are referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the smart home environment as well as with the central server or cloud computing system . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered are referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and can only communicate using wireless protocol that requires very little power such as Zigbee 6LoWPAN etc. Further some but not all low power nodes are incapable of bidirectional communication. These low power nodes send messages but they are unable to listen . Thus other devices in the smart home environment such as the spokesman nodes cannot send information to these low power nodes.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the smart home environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment regularly send out messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to travel from node to node i.e. device to device throughout the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes in the smart home environment are able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or the central server or cloud computing system . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols are able send messages across the entire smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system . According to embodiments the mesh network enables the central server or cloud computing system regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to individual one of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives descried herein.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening . Accordingly users other devices and the central server or cloud computing system can communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user can use the portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone to send commands over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system which then relays the commands to the spokesman nodes in the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the smart home environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the central server or cloud computing system .

An example of a low power node is a smart nightlight . In addition to housing a light source the smart nightlight houses an occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic or passive IR sensor and an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. In some embodiments the smart nightlight is configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark and when its occupancy sensor detects that someone is in the room. In other embodiments the smart nightlight is simply configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark. Further according to embodiments the smart nightlight includes a low power wireless communication chip e.g. ZigBee chip that regularly sends out messages regarding the occupancy of the room and the amount of light in the room including instantaneous messages coincident with the occupancy sensor detecting the presence of a person in the room. As mentioned above these messages may be sent wirelessly using the mesh network from node to node i.e. smart device to smart device within the smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system .

Other examples of low powered nodes include battery operated versions of the smart hazard detectors . These smart hazard detectors are often located in an area without access to constant and reliable power and as discussed in detail below may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore smart hazard detectors can send messages that correspond to each of the respective sensors to the other devices and the central server or cloud computing system such as by using the mesh network as described above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart doorbells smart thermostats smart wall switches and smart wall plugs . These devices and are often located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore can include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols.

In some embodiments these low powered and spokesman nodes e.g. devices and can function as tripwires for an alarm system in the smart home environment. For example in the event a perpetrator circumvents detection by alarm sensors located at windows doors and other entry points of the smart home environment the alarm could be triggered upon receiving an occupancy motion heat sound etc. message from one or more of the low powered and spokesman nodes in the mesh network. For example upon receiving a message from a smart nightlight indicating the presence of a person the central server or cloud computing system or some other device could trigger an alarm provided the alarm is armed at the time of detection. Thus the alarm system could be enhanced by various low powered and spokesman nodes located throughout the smart home environment . In this example a user could enhance the security of the smart home environment by buying and installing extra smart nightlights .

In some embodiments the mesh network can be used to automatically turn on and off lights as a person transitions from room to room. For example the low powered and spokesman nodes e.g. devices and detect the person s movement through the smart home environment and communicate corresponding messages through the mesh network. Using the messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall switches to automatically provide light as the person moves from room to room in the smart home environment . Further users may provide pre configuration information that indicates which smart wall plugs provide power to lamps and other light sources such as the smart nightlight . Alternatively this mapping of light sources to wall plugs can be done automatically e.g. the smart wall plugs detect when a light source is plugged into it and it sends a corresponding message to the central server or cloud computing system . Using this mapping information in combination with messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall plugs that provide power to lamps and other light sources so as to track the person s movement and provide light as the person moves from room to room.

In some embodiments the mesh network of low powered and spokesman nodes can be used to provide exit lighting in the event of an emergency. In some instances to facilitate this users provide pre configuration information that indicates exit routes in the smart home environment . For example for each room in the house the user provides a map of the best exit route. It should be appreciated that instead of a user providing this information the central server or cloud computing system or some other device could the automatically determine the routes using uploaded maps diagrams architectural drawings of the smart home house as well as using a map generated based on positional information obtained from the nodes of the mesh network e.g. positional information from the devices is used to construct a map of the house . In operation when an alarm is activated e.g. when one or more of the smart hazard detector detects smoke and activates an alarm the central server or cloud computing system or some other device uses occupancy information obtained from the low powered and spokesman nodes to determine which rooms are occupied and then turns on lights e.g. nightlights wall switches wall plugs that power lamps etc. along the exit routes from the occupied rooms so as to provide emergency exit lighting.

Further included and illustrated in the exemplary smart home environment of are service robots each configured to carry out in an autonomous manner any of a variety of household tasks. For some embodiments the service robots can be respectively configured to perform floor sweeping floor washing etc. in a manner similar to that of known commercially available devices such as the ROOMBA and SCOOBA products sold by iRobot Inc. of Bedford Mass. Tasks such as floor sweeping and floor washing can be considered as away or while away tasks for purposes of the instant description as it is generally more desirable for these tasks to be performed when the occupants are not present. For other embodiments one or more of the service robots are configured to perform tasks such as playing music for an occupant serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant serving as a localized baby monitor serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant and so forth it being generally more desirable for such tasks to be carried out in the immediate presence of the human occupant. For purposes of the instant description such tasks can be considered as human facing or human centric tasks.

When serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant a particular one of the service robots can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal comfort area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the occupant s immediate space at a comfortable temperature wherever that occupant may be located in the home. This can be contrasted with conventional wall mounted room thermostats which have the more attenuated objective of keeping a statically defined structural space at a comfortable temperature. According to one embodiment the localized thermostat service robot is configured to move itself into the immediate presence e.g. within five feet of a particular occupant who has settled into a particular location in the home e.g. in the dining room to eat their breakfast and read the news . The localized thermostat service robot includes a temperature sensor a processor and wireless communication components configured such that control communications with the HVAC system either directly or through a wall mounted wirelessly communicating thermostat coupled to the HVAC system are maintained and such that the temperature in the immediate vicinity of the occupant is maintained at their desired level. If the occupant then moves and settles into another location e.g. to the living room couch to watch television the localized thermostat service robot proceeds to move and park itself next to the couch and keep that particular immediate space at a comfortable temperature.

Technologies by which the localized thermostat service robot and or the larger smart home system of can identify and locate the occupant whose personal area space is to be kept at a comfortable temperature can include but are not limited to RFID sensing e.g. person having an RFID bracelet RFID necklace or RFID key fob synthetic vision techniques e.g. video cameras and face recognition processors audio techniques e.g. voice sound pattern vibration pattern recognition ultrasound sensing imaging techniques and infrared or near field communication NFC techniques e.g. person wearing an infrared or NFC capable smartphone along with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence techniques that draw useful conclusions from the sensed information e.g. if there is only a single occupant present in the home then that is the person whose immediate space should be kept at a comfortable temperature and the selection of the desired comfortable temperature should correspond to that occupant s particular stored profile .

When serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal health area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the air quality in the occupant s immediate space at healthy levels. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith other health related functions can be provided such as monitoring the temperature or heart rate of the occupant e.g. using finely remote sensors near field communication with on person monitors etc. . When serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal safety area network for the occupant with the objective being to ensure there is no excessive carbon monoxide smoke fire etc. in the immediate space of the occupant. Methods analogous to those described above for personal comfort area networks in terms of occupant identifying and tracking are likewise applicable for personal health area network and personal safety area network embodiments.

According to some embodiments the above referenced facilitation of personal comfort area networks personal health area networks personal safety area networks and or other such human facing functionalities of the service robots are further enhanced by logical integration with other smart sensors in the home according to rules based inferencing techniques or artificial intelligence techniques for achieving better performance of those human facing functionalities and or for achieving those goals in energy conserving or other resource conserving ways. Thus for one embodiment relating to personal health area networks the air monitor purifier service robot can be configured to detect whether a household pet is moving toward the currently settled location of the occupant e.g. using on board sensors and or by data communications with other smart home sensors along with rules based inferencing artificial intelligence techniques and if so the air purifying rate is immediately increased in preparation for the arrival of more airborne pet dander. For another embodiment relating to personal safety area networks the hazard detector service robot can be advised by other smart home sensors that the temperature and humidity levels are rising in the kitchen which is nearby to the occupant s current dining room location and responsive to this advisory the hazard detector service robot will temporarily raise a hazard detection threshold such as a smoke detection threshold under an inference that any small increases in ambient smoke levels will most likely be due to cooking activity and not due to a genuinely hazardous condition.

The above described human facing and away functionalities can be provided without limitation by multiple distinct service robots having respective dedicated ones of such functionalities by a single service robot having an integration of two or more different ones of such functionalities and or any combinations thereof including the ability for a single service robot to have both away and human facing functionalities without departing from the scope of the present teachings. Electrical power can be provided by virtue of rechargeable batteries or other rechargeable methods with illustrating an exemplary out of the way docking station to which the service robots will automatically dock and recharge its batteries if needed during periods of inactivity. Preferably each service robot includes wireless communication components that facilitate data communications with one or more of the other wirelessly communicating smart home sensors of and or with one or more other service robots e.g. using Wi Fi Zigbee Z Wave 6LoWPAN etc. and one or more of the smart home devices of can be in communication with a remote server over the Internet. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith each service robot can be configured to communicate directly with a remote server by virtue of cellular telephone communications satellite communications 3G 4G network data communications or other direct communication method.

Provided according to some embodiments are systems and methods relating to the integration of the service robot s with home security sensors and related functionalities of the smart home system. The embodiments are particularly applicable and advantageous when applied for those service robots that perform away functionalities or that otherwise are desirable to be active when the home is unoccupied hereinafter away service robots . Included in the embodiments are methods and systems for ensuring that home security systems intrusion detection systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental control systems for example occupancy sensitive automated setback thermostats that enter into a lower energy using condition when the home is unoccupied are not erroneously triggered by the away service robots.

Provided according to one embodiment is a home automation and security system e.g. as shown in that is remotely monitored by a monitoring service by virtue of automated systems e.g. cloud based servers or other central servers hereinafter central server that are in data communications with one or more network connected elements of the home automation and security system. The away service robots are configured to be in operative data communication with the central server and are configured such that they remain in a non away service state e.g. a dormant state at their docking station unless permission is granted from the central server e.g. by virtue of an away service OK message from the central server to commence their away service activities. An away state determination made by the system which can be arrived at i exclusively by local on premises smart device s based on occupancy sensor data ii exclusively by the central server based on received occupancy sensor data and or based on received proximity related information such as GPS coordinates from user smartphones or automobiles or iii any combination of i and ii can then trigger the granting of away service permission to the away service robots by the central server. During the course of the away service robot activity during which the away service robots may continuously detect and send their in home location coordinates to the central server the central server can readily filter signals from the occupancy sensing devices to distinguish between the away service robot activity versus any unexpected intrusion activity thereby avoiding a false intrusion alarm condition while also ensuring that the home is secure. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith the central server may provide filtering data such as an expected occupancy sensing profile triggered by the away service robots to the occupancy sensing nodes or associated processing nodes of the smart home such that the filtering is performed at the local level. Although somewhat less secure it would also be within the scope of the present teachings for the central server to temporarily disable the occupancy sensing equipment for the duration of the away service robot activity.

According to another embodiment functionality similar to that of the central server in the above example can be performed by an on site computing device such as a dedicated server computer a master home automation console or panel or as an adjunct function of one or more of the smart home devices of . In such embodiment there would be no dependency on a remote service provider to provide the away service OK permission to the away service robots and the false alarm avoidance filtering service or filter information for the sensed intrusion detection signals.

According to other embodiments there are provided methods and systems for implementing away service robot functionality while avoiding false home security alarms and false occupancy sensitive environmental controls without the requirement of a single overall event orchestrator. For purposes of the simplicity in the present disclosure the home security systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental controls that would be triggered by the motion noise vibrations or other disturbances of the away service robot activity are referenced simply as activity sensing systems and when so triggered will yield a disturbance detected outcome representative of the false trigger for example an alarm message to a security service or an arrival determination for an automated setback thermostat that causes the home to be heated or cooled to a more comfortable occupied setpoint temperature . According to one embodiment the away service robots are configured to emit a standard ultrasonic sound throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard ultrasonic sound and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard ultrasonic sound is detected. For other embodiments the away service robots are configured to emit a standard notification signal throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard notification signal and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard notification signal is detected wherein the standard notification signal comprises one or more of an optical notifying signal an audible notifying signal an infrared notifying signal an infrasonic notifying signal a wirelessly transmitted data notification signal e.g. an IP broadcast multicast or unicast notification signal or a notification message sent in an TCP IP two way communication session .

According to some embodiments the notification signals sent by the away service robots to the activity sensing systems are authenticated and encrypted such that the notifications cannot be learned and replicated by a potential burglar. Any of a variety of known encryption authentication schemes can be used to ensure such data security including but not limited to methods involving third party data security services or certificate authorities. For some embodiments a permission request response model can be used wherein any particular away service robot requests permission from each activity sensing system in the home when it is ready to perform its away service tasks and does not initiate such activity until receiving a yes or permission granted message from each activity sensing system or from a single activity sensing system serving as a spokesman for all of the activity sensing systems . One advantage of the described embodiments that do not require a central event orchestrator is that there can optionally be more of an arms length relationship between the supplier s of the home security environmental control equipment on the one hand and the supplier s of the away service robot s on the other hand as it is only required that there is the described standard one way notification protocol or the described standard two way request permission protocol to be agreed upon by the respective suppliers.

According to still other embodiments the activity sensing systems are configured to detect sounds vibrations RF emissions or other detectable environmental signals or signatures that are intrinsically associated with the away service activity of each away service robot and are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that particular detectable signal or environmental signature is detected. By way of example a particular kind of vacuum cleaning away service robot may emit a specific sound or RF signature. For one embodiment the away service environmental signatures for each of a plurality of known away service robots are stored in the memory of the activity sensing systems based on empirically collected data the environmental signatures being supplied with the activity sensing systems and periodically updated by a remote update server. For another embodiment the activity sensing systems can be placed into a training mode for the particular home in which they are installed wherein they listen and learn the particular environmental signatures of the away service robots for that home during that training session and thereafter will suppress disturbance detected outcomes for intervals in which those environmental signatures are heard.

For still another embodiment which is particularly useful when the activity sensing system is associated with occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment rather than a home security system the activity sensing system is configured to automatically learn the environmental signatures for the away service robots by virtue of automatically performing correlations over time between detected environmental signatures and detected occupancy activity. By way of example for one embodiment an intelligent automated nonoccupancy triggered setback thermostat such as the Nest Learning Thermostat can be configured to constantly monitor for audible and RF activity as well as to perform infrared based occupancy detection. In particular view of the fact that the environmental signature of the away service robot will remain relatively constant from event to event and in view of the fact that the away service events will likely either a themselves be triggered by some sort of nonoccupancy condition as measured by the away service robots themselves or b will occur at regular times of day there will be patterns in the collected data by which the events themselves will become apparent and for which the environmental signatures can be readily learned. Generally speaking for this automatic learning embodiment in which the environmental signatures of the away service robots are automatically learned without requiring user interaction it is more preferable that a certain number of false triggers be tolerable over the course of the learning process.

Accordingly this automatic learning embodiment is more preferable for application in occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment such as an automated setback thermostat rather than home security systems for the reason that a few false occupancy determinations may cause a few instances of unnecessary heating or cooling but will not otherwise have any serious whereas false home security alarms may have more serious consequences.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices located in the mesh network of the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system are used to provide a personal smart alarm clock for individual occupants of the home. For example user occupants can communicate with the central server or cloud computing system via their mobile devices to access an interface for the smart alarm clock. There occupants can turn on their smart alarm clock and input a wake time for the next day and or for additional days. In some embodiments the occupant may have the option of setting a specific wake time for each day of the week as well as the option of setting some or all of the inputted wake times to repeat . Artificial intelligence will be used to consider the occupant s response to these alarms when they go off and make inferences about the user s preferred sleep patterns over time.

According to embodiments the smart device in the smart home environment that happens to be closest to the occupant when the occupant falls asleep will be the devices that transmits messages regarding when the occupant stopped moving from which the central server or cloud computing system will make inferences about where and when the occupant prefers to sleep. This closest smart device will as be the device that sounds the alarm to wake the occupant. In this manner the smart alarm clock will follow the occupant throughout the house by tracking the individual occupants based on their unique signature which is determined based on data obtained from sensors located in the smart devices. For example the sensors include ultrasonic sensors passive IR sensors and the like. The unique signature is based on a combination of walking gate patterns of movement voice height size etc. It should be appreciated that facial recognition may also be used.

According to an embodiment the wake times associated with the smart alarm clock are used to by the smart thermostat to control the HVAC in an efficient manner so as to pre heat or cool the house to the occupant s desired sleeping and awake temperature settings. The preferred settings can be learned over time such as be observing which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to before going to sleep and which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to upon waking up.

According to an embodiment a device is positioned proximate to the occupant s bed such as on an adjacent nightstand and collects data as the occupant sleeps using noise sensors motion sensors e.g. ultrasonic IR and optical etc. Data may be obtained by the other smart devices in the room as well. Such data may include the occupant s breathing patterns heart rate movement etc. Inferences are made based on this data in combination with data that indicates when the occupant actually wakes up. For example if on a regular basis the occupant s heart rate breathing and moving all increase by 5 to 10 twenty to thirty minutes before the occupant wakes up each morning then predictions can be made regarding when the occupant is going to wake. Other devices in the home can use these predictions to provide other smart home objectives such as adjusting the smart thermostat so as to pre heat or cool the home to the occupant s desired setting before the occupant wakes up. Further these predictions can be used to set the smart alarm clock for the occupant to turn on lights etc.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices location through the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system are used to detect or monitor the progress of Alzheimer s Disease. For example the unique signatures of the occupants are used to track the individual occupants movement throughout the smart home environment . This data can be aggregated and analyzed to identify patterns indicative of Alzheimer s. Oftentimes individuals with Alzheimer s have distinctive patterns of migration in their homes. For example a person will walk to the kitchen and stand there for a while then to the living room and stand there for a while and then back to the kitchen. This pattern will take about thirty minutes and then the person will repeat the pattern. According to embodiments the remote servers or cloud computing architectures analyze the person s migration data collected by the mesh network of the smart home environment to identify such patterns.

Although in some examples provided herein the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from the smart devices of smart home environment of it should be appreciated that the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from a plurality of smart home environments across the world. For example the central server or cloud computing system can collect home data from the devices of one or more smart home environments where the devices can routinely transmit home data or can transmit home data in specific instances e.g. when a device queries the home data . Thus the devices and services platform routinely collects data from homes across the world. As described the collected home data includes for example power consumption data occupancy data HVAC settings and usage data carbon monoxide levels data carbon dioxide levels data volatile organic compounds levels data sleeping schedule data cooking schedule data inside and outside temperature humidity data television viewership data inside and outside noise level data etc.

The central server or cloud computing architecture can further provide one or more services . The services can include e.g. software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . Data associated with the services can be stored at the central server or cloud computing system and the central server or the cloud computing system can retrieve and transmit the data at an appropriate time e.g. at regular intervals upon receiving request from a user etc. .

As illustrated in an embodiment of the extensible devices and services platform includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. The processing engine can include engines configured to receive data from devices of smart home environments e.g. via the Internet or a hubbed network to index the data to analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived home data .

Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings can be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines.

The derived data can be highly beneficial at a variety of different granularities for a variety of useful purposes ranging from explicit programmed control of the devices on a per home per neighborhood or per region basis for example demand response programs for electrical utilities to the generation of inferential abstractions that can assist on a per home basis for example an inference can be drawn that the homeowner has left for vacation and so security detection equipment can be put on heightened sensitivity to the generation of statistics and associated inferential abstractions that can be used for government or charitable purposes. For example processing engine can generate statistics about device usage across a population of devices and send the statistics to device users service providers or other entities e.g. that have requested or may have provided monetary compensation for the statistics .

According to some embodiments the home data the derived home data and or another data can be used to create automated neighborhood safety networks. For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture receives data indicating that a particular home has been broken into is experiencing a fire or some other type of emergency event an alarm is sent to other smart homes in the neighborhood. In some instances the central server or cloud computing architecture automatically identifies smart homes within a radius of the home experiencing the emergency and sends an alarm to the identified homes. In such instances the other homes in the neighborhood do not have to sign up for or register to be a part of a safety network but instead are notified of emergency based on their proximity to the location of the emergency. This creates robust and evolving neighborhood security watch networks such that if one person s home is getting broken into an alarm can be sent to nearby homes such as by audio announcements via the smart devices located in those homes. It should be appreciated that this can be an opt in service and that in addition to or instead of the central server or cloud computing architecture selecting which homes to send alerts to individuals can subscribe to participate in such networks and individuals can specify which homes they want to receive alerts from. This can include for example the homes of family members who live in different cities such that individuals can receive alerts when their loved ones in other locations are experiencing an emergency.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by running water. Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about water usage in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what water sounds like and when it is running in the home. According to one embodiment to map the various water sources of the home upon detecting running water the central server or cloud computing architecture sends a message an occupant s mobile device asking if water is currently running or if water has been recently run in the home and if so which room and which water consumption appliance e.g. sink shower toilet etc. was the source of the water. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to determine the signature or fingerprint of each water source in the home. This is sometimes referred to herein as audio fingerprinting water usage. 

In one illustrative example the central server or cloud computing architecture creates a signature for the toilet in the master bathroom and whenever that toilet is flushed the central server or cloud computing architecture will know that the water usage at that time is associated with that toilet. Thus the central server or cloud computing architecture can track the water usage of that toilet as well as each water consumption application in the home. This information can be correlated to water bills or smart water meters so as to provide users with a breakdown of their water usage.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by mice and other rodents as well as by termites cockroaches and other insects collectively referred to as pests . Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about pest detection in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what certain pests sound like how they move and or the vibration they create individually and or collectively. According to one embodiment the central server or cloud computing architecture can determine the signatures of particular types of pests.

For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture detects sounds that may be associated with pests it notifies the occupants of such sounds and suggests hiring a pest control company. If it is confirmed that pests are indeed present the occupants input to the central server or cloud computing architecture confirmation that its detection was correct along with details regarding the identified pests such as name type description location quantity etc. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to tune itself for better detection and create signatures or fingerprints for specific types of pests. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can use the tuning as well as the signatures and fingerprints to detect pests in other homes such as nearby homes that may be experiencing problems with the same pests. Further for example in the event that two or more homes in a neighborhood are experiencing problems with the same or similar types of pests the central server or cloud computing architecture can make inferences that nearby homes may also have such problems or may be susceptible to having such problems and it can send warning messages to those home to help facilitate early detection and prevention.

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the devices and services platform exposes a range of application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs are coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with the central server or the cloud computing system including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example the APIs allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by the central server or the cloud computing system as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

For example third parties can develop programs and or applications such as web or mobile apps that integrate with the central server or the cloud computing system to provide services and information to users. Such programs and application may be for example designed to help users reduce energy consumption to preemptively service faulty equipment to prepare for high service demands to track past service performance etc. or to perform any of a variety of beneficial functions or tasks now known or hereinafter developed.

According to some embodiments third party applications make inferences from the home data and the derived home data such inferences may include when are occupants home when are they sleeping when are they cooking when are they in the den watching television when do they shower. The answers to these questions may help third parties benefit consumers by providing them with interesting information products and services as well as with providing them with targeted advertisements.

In one example a shipping company creates an application that makes inferences regarding when people are at home. The application uses the inferences to schedule deliveries for times when people will most likely be at home. The application can also build delivery routes around these scheduled times. This reduces the number of instances where the shipping company has to make multiple attempts to deliver packages and it reduces the number of time consumers have to pick up their packages from the shipping company.

For example shows processing engine as including a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that e.g. and responding to an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a light bulb having burned out implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics e.g. demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform. For example a user s status as reported to their trusted contacts on the social network could be updated to indicate when they are home based on light detection security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example a user may be able to share device usage statistics with other users. Yet another example a user may share HVAC settings that result in low power bills and other users may download the HVAC settings to their smart thermostat to reduce their power bills.

The processing engine can include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely e.g. reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involves participates turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

The processing engine can integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device e.g. outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood and so forth.

An extraordinary range and variety of benefits can be brought about by and fit within the scope of the described extensible devices and services platform ranging from the ordinary to the profound. Thus in one ordinary example each bedroom of the smart home environment can be provided with a smart wall switch a smart wall plug and or smart hazard detectors all or some of which include an occupancy sensor wherein the occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring e.g. by virtue of motion detection facial recognition audible sound patterns etc. whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a serious fire event is sensed the remote security monitoring service or fire department is advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom and whether those occupants are still asleep or immobile or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this is of course a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible devices and services platform there can be substantially more profound examples that can truly illustrate the potential of a larger intelligence that can be made available. By way of perhaps a more profound example the same data bedroom occupancy data that is being used for fire safety can also be repurposed by the processing engine in the context of a social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus for example the same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the ordinary example can be collected and made available for processing properly anonymized in which the sleep patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated for example to different nutrition programs in local schools.

Referring now to illustrated is a hazard detector that may be used as part of a smart home environment as previously described. illustrate an exploded perspective views of the hazard detector while illustrate an assembled view of the same hazard detector . illustrates a front view of the hazard detector and illustrates a cross sectional view of the hazard detector showing the arrangement of several internal components. In one embodiment hazard detector is a smoke detector that is configured to detect the presence of smoke and sound an alarm to audibly warn an occupant or occupants of the home or structure of a potential fire or other danger. In other embodiments hazard detector may be a carbon monoxide detector heat detector and the like. In one embodiment hazard detector is a multi sensing detector that includes a smoke detector carbon monoxide detector heat detector motion detector and the like. Many of the present teachings are particularly advantageous for embodiments in which the hazard detector is a multi sensing detector particularly since combining the various sensing modes together into a single device can pose substantial challenges with respect to one or more of device compactness component powering and overall component governance and coordination. For convenience in describing the embodiments herein the device will be referred to hereinbelow as hazard detector although it should be realized that hazard detector may include various other devices and that the scope of the present teachings is not necessarily limited to hazard detectors in which smoke is required as one of the anomalies to be detected. Thus for example depending on the particular context as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art upon reading the instant disclosure one or more of the advantageous features and embodiments described herein may be readily applicable to a multi functional hazard sensor that detects carbon monoxide and motion only or pollen and motion only or noise pollution and pollen only and so forth. Nevertheless the combining of smoke detection functionality with other sensing functions does bring about one or more particularly problematic issues that are addressed by one or more of the present teachings.

In one embodiment hazard detector is a roughly square or rectangular shaped object having a width of approximately 120 to 134 mm and a thickness of approximately 38 mm. Stated differently hazard detector is a multi sensing unit having a fairly compact shape and size that may be easily attached to a wall or ceiling of a home or structure so as to be able among other functionalities to detect the presence of smoke and alert an occupant therein of the potential fire danger. As shown in and B hazard detector includes a mounting plate that may be attached to a wall of the building or structure to secure the hazard detector thereto. Hazard detector also includes a back plate that may be mounted to the mounting plate and a front casing that may be coupled with or otherwise secured to back plate to define a housing having an interior region within which components of the hazard detector are contained. A circuit board may be coupled with or attached to back plate . Various components may be mounted on circuit board . For example a smoke chamber may be coupled with or mounted on circuit board and configured to detect the presence of smoke. In one embodiment smoke chamber may be mid mounted relative to circuit board so that air may flow into smoke chamber from a position above circuit board and below circuit board . A speaker and alarm device not number may also be mounted on circuit board to audibly warn an occupant of a potential fire danger when the presence of smoke is detected via smoke chamber . Other components such as a motion sensor carbon monoxide sensor microprocessor and the like may likewise be mounted on circuit board as described herein.

In one embodiment a protective plate may be attached to or otherwise coupled with circuit board to provide a visually pleasing appearance to the inner components of hazard detector and or to funnel or direct airflow to smoke chamber . For example when a user views the internal components of hazard detector such as through vents in back plate protective plate may provide the appearance of a relatively smooth surface and otherwise hide the components or circuitry of circuit board . Protective plate may likewise function to direct a flow of air from the vents of back plate toward smoke chamber so as to facilitate air flow into and out of smoke chamber .

Hazard detector may also include a battery pack that is configured to provide power to the various components of hazard detector when hazard detector is not coupled with an external power source such as a 120 V power source of the home or structure. In some embodiments a cover plate may be coupled with the front casing to provide a visually pleasing appearance to hazard detector and or for other functional purposes. In a specific embodiment cover plate may include a plurality of holes or openings that allow one or more sensors coupled with circuit board to view or see through a surface of cover plate so as to sense objects external to hazard detector . The plurality of openings of cover plate may be arranged to provide a visually pleasing appearance when viewed by occupants of the home or structure. In one embodiment the plurality of openings of cover plate may be arranged according to a repeating pattern such as a Fibonacci or other sequence.

A lens button may be coupled with or otherwise mounted to cover plate . Lens button may allow one or more sensors to view through the lens button for various purposes. For example in one embodiment a passive IR sensor not shown may be positioned behind the lens button and configured to view through the lens button to detect the presence of an occupant or occupants within the home or structure. In some embodiments lens button may also function as a button that is pressable by a user to input various commands to hazard detector such as to shut off an alarm that is triggered in response to a false or otherwise harmless condition. Positioned distally behind lens button may be a light ring that is configured to receive light such as from an LED and disperse the light within ring to provide a desired visual appearance such as a halo behind lens button . Positioned distally behind light ring may be a flexible circuit board that includes one or more electrical components such as a passive IR sensor hereinafter PIR sensor LEDs and the like. Flexible circuit board hereinafter flex ring may be electrically coupled with circuit board to communicate and or receive instructions from one or more microprocessors mounted on circuit board not shown during operation of hazard detector . Additional details of the components of hazard detector are described in .

In some embodiments smoke chamber may also be mid mounted with respect to protective plate . In other words smoke chamber may extend through a hole formed in protective plate such that a top surface of smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of protective plate and a bottom surface of smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of protective plate . In this configuration smoke chamber is mid mounted with respect to both the protective plate and circuit board so that air and smoke is flowable into smoke chamber from both a top surface and a bottom surface of circuit board and protective plate . Further in this configuration protective plate functions to direct airflow toward smoke chamber . For example the edges of protective plate are positioned near the edge of hazard detector and protective plate provides a relatively smooth surface that directs air flow from near the edges of hazard detector toward the smoke chamber which is positioned substantially centrally within hazard detector . The substantially smooth or flat surface of protective plate prevents air and smoke from contacting the components of circuit board and thereby helps facilitate airflow into and out of smoke chamber .

The mid mounting of smoke chamber also helps prevent pressure buildup within hazard detector since air and smoke is flowable along or adjacent one side of the circuit board to smoke chamber through smoke chamber and flowable along or adjacent an opposite side of circuit board . For example in some conventional smoke detectors having a smoke chamber mounted on one side of a circuit board air pressure may increase near the smoke chamber since air and smoke is only able to flow to the smoke chamber along one side of the circuit board but not an opposite side of the circuit board. Stated differently the air and smoke may accumulate near the smoke chamber causing an increase in air pressure near the smoke chamber since the air is funneled towards the smoke chamber along a single surface of the circuit board but not able to exit along any other route other than the single surface of the circuit board. The mid mounting of smoke chamber described herein allows air and smoke to be funneled toward the smoke chamber along one side or surface of circuit board pass through the smoke chamber and exit along an opposite side or surface of circuit board .

Mid mounting of smoke chamber also decreases an orientational dependence of the hazard detector in detecting smoke within the home or structure. For example when testing smoke detectors the smoke detectors are typically rotated to find the least sensitive smoke detection direction. The sensitivity of the smoke detectors are typically tested with the smoke detectors oriented in the least sensitive direction. Mid mounting of the smoke chamber within hazard detector substantially reduces or eliminates orientation dependence in relation to the smoke detection functionality. Stated differently mid mounting of the smoke chamber essentially allows the hazard detector to exhibit uniform smoke detection ability regardless of the orientation.

Mid mounting of smoke chamber may also facilitate in cooling the various components mounted on or otherwise coupled with circuit board . For example airflow within hazard detector may be increased due to the ability of air to flow in around and through smoke chamber . Airflow relative to one or more heat producing electrical components mounted on the circuit board such as one or more microprocessors may be increased because air does not accumulate atop the circuit board or otherwise within hazard detector due to the presence of the mid mounted smoke chamber and or other mid mounted components. The increased flow of air around the one or more heat producing electrical components may provide a degree of cooling for such components. In one embodiment a first microprocessor not shown may be coupled on a first side of circuit board while a second microprocessor not shown is coupled on a second side of circuit board opposite the first microprocessor. Air may flow between the first and second sides of circuit board as described herein to provide a degree of cooling for the first microprocessor and or second microprocessor. In another embodiment the one or more heat producing electrical components may be advantageously positioned or mounted on circuit board to create a thermal flow that promotes airflow to through the smoke chamber and or relative to other components mounted on circuit board . For example one or more microprocessors or resistors may be arranged on the circuit board to create free or natural convective air currents that cause air to flow through smoke chamber and or across other components mounted on the circuit board . In this manner cooling of the one or more electrical components and or airflow within hazard detector may be increased.

In some embodiments other components of the hazard detector may likewise be mid mounted relative to circuit board and or protective plate . For example in one embodiment a CO detector is mid mounted with respect to circuit board and or protective plate such that a top surface of the CO detector is positioned above the top surface of the circuit board and or protective plate while a bottom surface of the CO detector is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board and or protective plate . As such air may be accessible to the CO detector from both the top surface and a bottom surface of the circuit board and or protective plate . In another embodiment an additional airflow dependent sensor such as in air quality sensor a pollen detector flow rate sensor and the like may be mid mounted with respect to the circuit board and or protective plate so that air is accessible to the additional air flow dependent sensor from both the top surface and bottom surface of the circuit board and or protective plate .

As described herein an advantageous feature of the mid mounted smoke chamber is the reduction or elimination of pressure regions within the hazard detector and adjacent the smoke chamber since smoke and other gases may easily flow through the smoke chamber and hazard detector . To further promote the flow of air smoke and other gases through the smoke chamber the hazard detector may be equipped with one or more micro fans that draw air into the hazard detector from one region and cause the air to flow out of the hazard detector in another region. The micro fans can be positioned to cause the air to pass through the smoke chamber and circuit board to prevent air pressure buildup near the smoke chamber . The increased flow of air may provide additional cooling benefits to the various components mounted on circuit board .

Circuit board may also include a micro air flow detector that is designed to monitor and measure a flow of air passing by the circuit board and or through the smoke chamber . In some embodiments the top and bottom surface of the circuit board may each include an air flow detector so that the air flow relative to the top and bottom surfaces of circuit board may be monitored and measured. If abnormalities are detected such as a significant drop in air flow relative to one or both surfaces an occupant of the building may be alerted to a potential problem with the hazard detector . For example the occupant may be alerted to it blocked or clogged air passageway of hazard detector . To detect abnormalities the hazard detector may be designed to monitor the air flow patterns for a defined amount of time so as to learn the air flow patterns of the home or structure and or an average air flow rate of the home or structure.

In another embodiment the home or structure may include a plurality of hazard detectors that are positioned in various rooms hallways equipment rooms and the like. The air flow data associated with each location may be measured and monitored and recorded in a centralized database. This data may be analyzed to help determine the air flow currents or patterns of the home or structure. This information may then be used to optimize placement of hazard detectors within the building so as to position the hazard detectors in locations that are most likely to be exposed to smoke quickly. In some embodiments a message may be transmitted to an occupant of the building that illustrates the measured air flow patterns and or suggests a placement scheme based on the analyzed data. The data collected in the centralized database may be provided to and used by homebuilders city planners and the like to determine how to improve the efficiency of homes and or residential areas.

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of the mounting plate that allows hazard detector to be coupled with a wall or ceiling of a structure or home within which the hazard detector is to be positioned to detect a potential fire hazard or other hazard. Mounting plate includes a body that includes a plurality of holes or apertures that allow the mounting plate to be mounted to the wall or ceiling in numerous positions. Mounting plate is designed to cover a hole in the wall or ceiling that is cut around an electrical gang box or wall box. Measured diagonally electrical gang boxes or wall boxes are typically about 100 mm across. As such a hole in the wall or ceiling must be at least this large. To cover and hide the hole in the wall mounting plate may be sized larger than 100 mm across. For example in one embodiment mounting plate is sized to be about 120 mm or larger across which provides a 10 mm margin per side i.e. 20 mm total for the wall hole to be cut around the gang or wall box and the mounting plate to overlap the edges of the hole. In some embodiments body comprises a thickness between about 1.5 and 6 mm although a thickness of about 3 mm is more common.

Body includes a centrally positioned aperture through which electrical wiring may be inserted to hardwire the hazard detector with the wiring of the home or structure. Body also includes a plurality of hooks or bayonets allow the mounting plate to be removably coupled with back plate . As shown in body may include four hooks that are positioned near respective edges of body . Each hook may face outwardly to couple with a corresponding aperture of the back plate .

Mounting plate also includes four holes that are positioned in opposite corners of body . Holes are mainly used when hazard detector is being mounted in a location other than that associated with an electrical box wall box gang box and the like. Stated differently holes are mainly used in hazard detector when the hazard detector is not going to be hardwired to the electrical wires of the home or structure. A screw nail or other mechanical fastening device may be easily inserted through holes to attach the mounting plate to the wall or ceiling of the structure or building within which the hazard detector is to be positioned.

Body further includes a plurality of apertures that are centrally spaced and arranged around aperture . Specifically body includes a first set of apertures a second set of apertures a third set of apertures and the fourth set of apertures . These apertures are arranged to correspond to different standards of wall boxes or gang boxes in one or more countries or regions around the world such as the United States and Europe. These apertures allow the mounting plate to be easily fit to a wall box or gang box regardless of the specific sizing standard s used in a specific country. Further the apertures comprise a slotted configuration which allow the mounting plate and hazard detector to be mounted with some degree of rotation relative to the wall or ceiling. For example the slotted apertures allow the mounting plate and hazard detector to be mounted at roughly 90 configurations plus or minus approximately 45 60 of rotation.

Each of the set of apertures and include four slotted apertures with a pair of slots positioned on opposing sides of aperture . Specifically a first pair of slots of each set is positioned on opposing sides of aperture with a central portion or region of the first pair of slots positioned at roughly 90 from an edge of body . A second pair of slots of each set is positioned on opposing sides of aperture with a central portion or region of the second pair of slots positioned at roughly 45 from the central portion or region of the first pair of slots. This configuration allows the mounting plate and hazard detector to be secured to the wall or ceiling at roughly 90 or 45 plus or minus some rotation e.g. 45 60 within the slots as desired by the user. In this manner the user may make the hazard detector appear to have a relatively level configuration with respect to a floor or wall so that the hazard detector appears to have a box configuration or the user may arrange the hazard detector to appear to have a diamond configuration or any other configuration desired.

The first set of apertures is arranged on body so as to comprise approximately a 60 mm diameter configuration. The second set of apertures is arranged on body so as to comprise approximately a 71 mm diameter configuration. The third set of apertures and forth set of apertures are arranged on body so as to comprise approximately an 83.5 mm and 88 mm diameter configuration respectively. These configurations allow the mounting plate to be adapted to the various wall boxes or gang box sizing standards used in various countries around the world and thus allow mounting of the hazard detector regardless of the specific standard used in the home or structure.

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of back plate . Back plate includes a body having a plurality of apertures that are configured to mate with hooks of mounting plate to secure the back plate and hazard detector to the mounting plate and to a wall or ceiling of a structure or home. Back plate covers a rear portion of the internal components of hazard detector to encase the internal components within the hazard detector device. In addition some of the other components of hazard detector e.g. circuit board and the like are mounted or otherwise coupled with the back plate . Back plate couples with the front casing to define a housing within which the components are contained. In some embodiments back plate and front casing may be permanently coupled together while in other embodiments front casing may be removable from back plate so that the internal components are accessible to the user for example to change batteries of the hazard detector .

As shown back plate includes vents within body that allow air to flow into hazard detector . As described herein an edge or edges of protective play may be positioned adjacent or near vents to direct air and smoke to flow from vents towards an internally mounted smoke chamber . Body also includes one or more apertures through which electrical wires of the home or structure may be inserted to hardwire the hazard detector to the home or structure s electrical wiring. Body may also include one or more posts that are used to mount and or position various components of hazard detector within the housing defined by back plate and front casing . Body may further include various apertures or ports through which screws or other mechanically fastening devices may be inserted to attach the various internal components of hazard detector to back plate .

Referring now to illustrated is an embodiment of a smoke chamber . As shown smoke chamber comprises a body having a roughly cylindrical configuration although other configurations are possible. In some embodiments body may have a diameter of between about 30 and 50 mm. In another embodiment body may have a diameter of between about 35 and 45 mm. In a specific embodiment body may have a diameter of about 42 mm. Body may also have a height of between about 10 and 15 mm with a specific embodiment having a height of about 12.5 mm. Smoke chamber further includes a plurality of baffles positioned circumferentially around the smoke chamber . An opening of the baffles may be approximately 1.2 mm or smaller to prevent bugs and other objects larger than 1.3 mm from entering the smoke chamber while allowing air and smoke to freely enter therein. Smoke chamber may be an optical smoke sensing device ionization type smoke sensing device photoelectric smoke sensing device and the like. In one embodiment smoke chamber may be and optical device that includes a light source e.g. LED and the like and a light detecting source e.g. photodiode and the like for detecting the presence of smoke. With the light source and or light detecting source body may have a height of between about 15 and 20 mm with a specific embodiment having a height of about 18.9 mm. An axis of the light source may be offset from an axis of the photodiode such as by 30 so that light emitted by light source is not readily detected by the photodiode unless smoke or other particles are within the interior region of smoke chamber . The smoke detecting components e.g. light source and light detecting source may be electrically coupled via wires to the circuit board so that upon detecting the presence of smoke an alarm device may be triggered or so that other information may be communicated to components mounted on or otherwise electrically coupled with the circuit board . Body may include one or more flanges that are used to couple the smoke chamber with the circuit board and or protective plate or otherwise secure the smoke chamber relative thereto.

In some embodiments smoke chamber may include other components in addition to smoke detecting components. For example an additional light source or light detecting source component e.g. UV light spectroscopy and the like may be used within smoke chamber to detect the presence of pollen a quality of the air humidity and the like. The additional light source or light detecting source component could be used to help distinguish between smoke and a false alarm. In another embodiment it could be used as a particle counter or pollen counter to give an indication of general air quality. Information about the pollen count may be provided to an occupant or occupants of the home or structure or recorded on a central database to help individuals be aware of possible allergy issues. In another embodiment the additional components within smoke chamber may be used to determine if the room is relatively humid which may cause the hazard detector to falsely trigger the alarm device. If the smoke chamber determines that the humidity is relatively high the sensitivity of the smoke detecting components may be reduced so as to reduce the occurrence of false alarms. In this manner smoke chamber may function as a multi sensing unit. In other embodiments the additional components may be positioned at locations within hazard detector other than the smoke chamber.

As shown in in some embodiments a smoke chamber may include additional baffles positioned on a top surface i.e. near components and or a bottom surface so that smoke is flowable into the interior of the smoke chamber from the top surface the bottom surface and or a side or sides of the smoke chamber. In one embodiment the smoke chamber may include baffles positioned on each surface so that smoke is flowable into the interior of the smoke chamber from virtually any direction relative to the smoke chamber. With regard to optical or photoelectric smoke chambers a particular concern with adding baffles to the top or bottom surface is limiting or eliminating the penetration of light into the smoke chamber which may falsely trigger the alarm device. In hazard detectors employing such smoke sensor technology the baffles must be capable of allowing smoke and air to enter into the smoke chamber while limiting or eliminating light from entering therein.

Referring now to illustrated is a front and rear perspective view of a protective plate . Protective plate includes a body having a relatively centrally located aperture through which the smoke chamber is insertable to mid mount the smoke chamber relative to protective plate as previously described. Body also includes a pair of notches positioned on opposite sides of the centrally located aperture through which wires are positioned to electrically couple smoke chamber with circuit board . Body also includes a plurality of holes that allow the protective plate to be attached to or otherwise coupled with circuit board and or back plate . As shown in when mounted with circuit board protective plate covers the various components mounted on the rear or bottom surface of circuit board . In this manner protective plate functions to prevent the components of circuit board from being touched or viewed by a user such as when the back plate is removed to change batteries of hazard detector or for various other reasons. In addition if a user views the interior of hazard detector through one of the vents of back plate the protective plate hides the components of circuit board from the user s view and provides a visually pleasing surface thereby helping the hazard detector have a cleaner and more pleasing appearance.

Protective plate also optimizes air flow to smoke chamber as well. For example as previously described the outer edges of protective plate are positioned adjacent or near vents of back plate so that air and smoke entering hazard detector via vents is directed or funneled from the edge of hazard detector towards smoke chamber . The relatively flat and smooth surface of protective plate helps funnel or channel the air flow towards smoke chamber . Since smoke chamber is mid mounted relative to protective plate smoke and air easily flow into smoke chamber from a bottom surface of protective plate . Protective plate may have one or more beveled or chamfered edges as shown positioned near smoke chamber and or one or more edges of protective plate .

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of circuit board . Circuit board includes a main body having a front side or surface and a rear side or surface. As described herein various electrical components are mounted on circuit board . In some embodiments these components may be mounted on the front surface of circuit board on the rear surface of circuit board opposite the front surface or on both surfaces of the circuit board . For example in a specific embodiment one or more microprocessors and or other processor related components may be mounted on the rear surface of circuit board facing protective plate while one or more functional components e.g. an alarm device CO detector speaker motion sensors Wi Fi device Zigbee device and the like are mounted on a front surface of circuit board facing a room of the home or structure in which the hazard detector is positioned. Other components may be mid mounted relative to circuit board so that opposing surfaces are positioned on opposing sides of the circuit board as described herein.

As shown in in a specific embodiment the front surface of circuit board may include a CO detector that is configured to detect presence of carbon monoxide gas and trigger an alarm device if the carbon monoxide gas levels are determined to be too high. The alarm device which can be a piezoelectric buzzer having an intentionally shrill or jarring sound may likewise be mounted on the front surface of circuit board so as to face an occupant of the room in which the hazard detector is positioned to alarm the occupant of a potential danger. Alarm device may be configured to produce one or more sounds or signals to alert the occupant of the potential danger. The front surface may further include an area in which a speaker is positioned. Speaker may be configured to provide audible warnings or messages to the occupant of the room. For example speaker may alert the occupant of a potential danger and instruct the occupant to exit the room. In some embodiments speaker may provide specific instructions to the occupant such as an exit route to use when exiting the room and or home or structure. Other messages may likewise be communicated to the occupant such as to alert the occupant that the batteries are low that CO levels are relatively high in the room that hazard detector needs periodic cleaning or alert the occupant of any other abnormalities or issues related to hazard detector or components thereof.

Circuit board may also include one or more motion sensors mounted on the front surface thereof. The motion sensors may be used to determine the presence of an individual within a room or surrounding area of hazard detector . This information may be used to change the functionality of hazard detector and or one or more other devices connected in a common network as described previously. For example this information may be relayed to a smart thermostat to inform the thermostat that occupants of the home or structure are present so that the smart thermostat may condition the home or structure according to one or more learned or programmed settings. Hazard detector may likewise use this information for one or more purposes such as to quiet the alarm device e.g. gesture hush as described herein or for various other reasons.

In one embodiment a first ultrasonic sensor and a second ultrasonic sensor may be mounted on the front surface of circuit board . The two ultrasonic sensors and may be offset axially so as to point in slightly different directions. In this orientation each ultrasonic sensor may be used to detect motion of an individual based on an orientation of the hazard detector relative to the room and or occupant. Detecting the motion of the individual may be used to quiet the alarm device as described herein i.e. gesture hush or for any other reason. In one embodiment an axis of the first ultrasonic sensor may be oriented substantially outward relative to hazard detector while an axis of the second ultrasonic sensor is oriented an angle relative to the axis of first ultrasonic sensor . The first ultrasonic sensor may sense motion of an individual when the hazard detector is mounted on a ceiling of the home or structure. Because the first ultrasonic sensor is oriented substantially outward relative to hazard detector the first ultrasonic sensor essentially looks straight down on individuals beneath hazard detector . The second ultrasonic sensor may similarly sense motion of the individual when the hazard detector is mounted on a wall of the home or structure. Because the second ultrasonic sensor is oriented at an angle relative to the first ultrasonic sensor and hazard detector the second ultrasonic sensor essentially looks downward toward the floor when the hazard detector is mounted on a wall of the home or structure rather than looking directly outward as first ultrasonic sensor . In one embodiment the angular offset of the two ultrasonic sensors may be approximately 30 or any other desired value.

In another embodiment the two ultrasonic sensors and may be replaced by a single ultrasonic sensor that is configured to rotate within hazard detector so that the single ultrasonic sensor is capable of looking straight outward similar to first ultrasonic sensor or capable of looking downward similar to second ultrasonic sensor . The single ultrasonic sensor may be coupled to circuit board via a hinge that allows the ultrasonic sensor to rotate based on the orientation of hazard detector . For example when hazard detector is mounted to a ceiling of the home or structure gravity may orient the ultrasonic sensor so as to look straight downward whereas when hazard detector is coupled to a wall of the home or structure gravity may cause the ultrasonic sensor to rotate via the hinge and look downward toward a floor and relative to hazard detector . In another embodiment a motor may be coupled with the single ultrasonic sensor so as to rotate the ultrasonic sensor based on the orientation of hazard detector . In this manner the ultrasonic sensor may always point in a direction that is likely to detect motion of an individual within the room or space surrounding the hazard detector . In yet another embodiment the single ultrasonic sensor may have a wide field of view that is able to substantially accommodate both mounting positions of the two ultrasonic sensors and .

As shown in body of circuit board also includes a substantially centrally located aperture through which smoke chamber is inserted so as to mid mount the smoke chamber relative to circuit board . Aperture may also include a pair of notches through which wires are inserted to electrically couple the smoke chamber with circuit board . As previously described mid mounting of the smoke chamber through an aperture allows smoke and air to enter smoke chamber from both the front surface or side of circuit board and the rear surface or side of circuit board . Various aspects of the electrical components on the circuit board are now described the positions thereon of many of which will be apparent to the skilled reader in view of the descriptions herein and . Included on the circuit board can be several components including a system processor relatively high power wireless communications circuitry and antenna relatively low power wireless communications circuitry and antenna non volatile memory audio speaker one or more interface sensors a safety processor safety sensors alarm device a power source and powering circuitry. The components are operative to provide failsafe safety detection features and user interface features using circuit topology and power budgeting methods that minimize power consumption. According to one preferred embodiment a bifurcated or hybrid processor circuit topology is used for handling the various features of the hazard detector wherein the safety processor is a relatively small relatively lean processor that is dedicated to core safety sensor governance and core alarming functionality as would be provided on a conventional smoke CO alarm and wherein the system processor is a relatively larger relatively higher powered processor that is dedicated to more advanced features such as cloud communications user interface features occupancy and other advanced environmental tracking features and more generally any other task that would not be considered a core or conventional safety sensing and alarming task.

By way of example and not by way of limitation the safety processor may be a Freescale KL15 microcontroller while the system processor may be a Freescale K60 microcontroller. Preferably the safety processor is programmed and configured such that it is capable of operating and performing its core safety related duties regardless of the status or state of the system processor. Thus for example even if the system processor is not available or is otherwise incapable of performing any functions the safety processor will continue to perform its core safety related tasks such that the hazard detector still meets all industry and or government safety standards that are required for the smoke CO and or other safety related monitoring for which the hazard detector is offered provided of course that there is sufficient electrical power available for the safety processor to operate . The system processor on the other hand performs what might be called optional or advanced functions that are overlaid onto the functionality of the safety processor where optional or advanced refers to tasks that are not specifically required for compliance with industry and or governmental safety standards. Thus although the system processor is designed to interoperate with the safety processor in a manner that can improve the overall performance feature set and or functionality of the hazard detector its operation is not required in order for the hazard detector to meet core safety related industry and or government safety standards. Being generally a larger and more capable processor than the safety processor the system processor will generally consumes more power than the safety processor when both are active.

Similarly when both processors are inactive the system processor will still consume more power than the safety processor. The system processor can be operative to process user interface features and monitor interface sensors such as occupancy sensors audio sensors cameras etc. which are not directly related to core safety sensing . For example the system processor can direct wireless data traffic on both high and low power wireless communications circuitry access non volatile memory communicate with the safety processor and cause audio to be emitted from speaker . As another example the system processor can monitor interface sensors to determine whether any actions need to be taken e.g. shut off a blaring alarm in response to a user detected action to hush the alarm . The safety processor can be operative to handle core safety related tasks of the hazard detector . The safety processor can poll safety sensors e.g. smoke CO and activate alarm device when one or more of safety sensors indicate a hazard event is detected. The safety processor can operate independently of the system processor and can activate alarm device regardless of what state the system processor is in. For example if the system processor is performing an active function e.g. performing a WiFi update or is shut down due to power constraints the safety processor can still activate alarm device when a hazard event is detected.

In some embodiments the software running on the safety processor may be permanently fixed and may never be updated via a software or firmware update after the hazard detector leaves the factory. Compared to the system processor the safety processor is a less power consuming processor. Using the safety processor to monitor the safety sensors as opposed to using the system processor to do this can yield power savings because safety processor may be constantly monitoring the safety sensors. If the system processor were to constantly monitor the safety sensors power savings may not be realized. In addition to the power savings realized by using safety processor for monitoring the safety sensors bifurcating the processors can also ensure that the safety features of the hazard detector always work regardless of whether the higher level user interface works. The relatively high power wireless communications circuitry can be for example a Wi Fi module capable of communicating according to any of the 802.11 protocols.

By way of example the relatively high power wireless communications circuitry may be implemented using a Broadcom BCM43362 Wi Fi module. The relatively low power wireless communications circuitry can be a low power Wireless Personal Area Network 6LoWPAN module or a ZigBee module capable of communicating according to a 802.15.4 protocol. For example in one embodiment the relatively low power wireless communications circuitry may be implemented using an Ember EM357 6LoWPAN module. The non volatile memory can be any suitable permanent memory storage such as for example NAND Flash a hard disk drive NOR ROM or phase change memory. In one embodiment the non volatile memory can store audio clips that can be played back using the speaker . The audio clips can include installation instructions or warning in one or more languages. The interface sensors can includes sensors that are monitored by system processor while the safety sensors can include sensors that are monitored by the safety processor. Sensors and can be mounted to a printed circuit board e.g. the same board processor and are mounted to a flexible printed circuit board a housing of system or a combination thereof.

The interface sensors can include for example an ambient light sensor ALS such as can be implemented using a discrete photodiode a passive infrared PIR motion sensor such as can be implemented using an Excelitas PYQ1348 module and one or more ultrasonic sensors such as can be implemented using one or more Manorshi MS P1640H12TR modules . The safety sensors can include for example the smoke detection chamber which can employ for example an Excelitas IR module the CO detection module which can employ for example a Figaro TGS5342 sensor and a temperature and humidity sensor which can employ for example a Sensirion SHT20 module . The power source can supply power to enable operation of the hazard detector and can include any suitable source of energy. Embodiments discussed herein can include AC line powered battery powered a combination of AC line powered with a battery backup and externally supplied DC power e.g. USB supplied power . Embodiments that use AC line power AC line power with battery backup or externally supplied DC power may be subject to different power conservation constraints than battery only embodiments.

Preferably battery only powered embodiments are designed to manage power consumption of its finite energy supply such that hazard detector operates for a minimum period of time of at least seven 7 eight 8 nine 9 or ten 10 years. Line powered embodiments are not as constrained. Line powered with battery backup embodiments may employ power conservation methods to prolong the life of the backup battery. In battery only embodiments the power source can include one or more batteries such as the battery pack . The batteries can be constructed from different compositions e.g. alkaline or lithium iron disulfide and different end user configurations e.g. permanent user replaceable or non user replaceable can be used. In one embodiment six cells of Li FeScan be arranged in two stacks of three. Such an arrangement can yield about 27000 mWh of total available power for the hazard detector .

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of a speaker that is electrically coupled with circuit board so as to receive instructions therefrom. Speaker includes a speaker body and one or more mounting flanges that allow the speaker to be coupled with or mounted on front casing . Speaker also includes a plug or other mounting component that allows the speaker to be electrically coupled with circuit board . As previously described speaker may be used to audibly alert an occupant of a room within which hazard detector is positioned or to provide other messages to the occupant of the room. For example speaker may be used to alert a firefighter or other rescuer regarding the occupants remaining in the home or structure after a fire or other danger is detected or may be used to inform an occupant of a safest route out of the home or structure.

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of a battery pack of hazard detector . Battery pack includes a body within which batteries are positioned to power hazard detector . Specifically as shown in body includes a battery receptacle area within which the batteries are inserted. The batteries of hazard detector may be rechargeable or one time use batteries as is common in the art. In some embodiments hazard detector may be designed to be a replaceable unit so that upon discharge of the batteries the entire hazard detector unit is replaced. In other embodiments the back plate and front casing of hazard detector may be removed by a user so as to be able to access and replace the batteries.

Body includes one or more holes or apertures that allow the battery pack to be coupled with or otherwise mounted to the hazard detector such as by attaching the battery pack to front casing back plate and or the like. Battery pack also includes an electrically coupling component that is configured to connect with circuit board to provide power to the circuit board and the various components mounted thereon such as the smoke chamber the ultrasonic sensors and the microprocessors the PIR sensor s and the like.

Battery pack further includes a radially arranged flange that is designed to function operationally with a button of front casing . In some embodiments radial flange portion is configured to support the button of front casing . In other embodiments radial flange portion may be designed to limit a vertical travel of the button as is pressed by user. The radial flange portion may be coupled with the front casing via a coupling component such as by inserting a screw through the coupling component which is then inserted into the front casing .

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of the front casing . Front casing includes a main body having a front surface and a plurality of sides arranged there around that defines a recessed region. As described herein front casing is coupled with back plate to define a housing of hazard detector . The various components described herein that are positioned between the back plate and front casing are contained within the recessed region of front casing . As shown in the figures front casing may comprise a roughly square configuration although other configurations e.g. circular oval rectangular and the like are possible.

The main body of front casing includes a central region within which the lens button light ring and flex ring are positioned. The central region includes a surface that may be flexed axially inward relative to front casing as lens button is pressed by a user to provide input to hazard detector such as to quiet an alarm device or for various other reasons. Surface may include a plurality of arms that are attached to front casing and that allow the surface to be pressed axially inward relative to front casing . Surface may also include a plurality of tabs that are configured to couple with light ring as described herein. Front casing and surface may be formed as a single piece thereby eliminating any issues arising from coupling separate components together as in conventional devices. The central region of front casing and also include a plurality of axially outward extending flanges that correspond to similarly shaped flanges of flex ring to facilitate in orienting and coupling the flex ring with respect to the central region of front casing . The central region may likewise include an aperture through which a tail end or ribbon of flex ring is inserted to allow tail end or ribbon of flex ring to be electrically coupled with circuit board .

Front casing also includes a first aperture and a second aperture through which the first ultrasonic sensor and second ultrasonic sensor are positioned. Stated differently the first ultrasonic sensor may be configured to be inserted partially or fully through the first aperture so that the first ultrasonic sensor is able to view external object or individuals through front casing . Likewise the second ultrasonic sensor may be configured to be inserted partially or fully through a second aperture so that the second sonic sensor is able to view external objects or individuals through the front casing . In some embodiments the front surface of the first ultrasonic sensor and or second ultrasonic sensor may be positioned in front of the front surface of front casing so that the front surface of the first ultrasonic sensor and or second ultrasonic sensor is positioned essentially between the front casing and the cover plate . In this arrangement the first ultrasonic sensor and or second ultrasonic sensor need only view external objects through the cover plate rather than viewing external objects through both cover plate and front casing . An axis of first aperture may be directed substantially outward relative to front casing to allow the first ultrasonic sensor to view objects substantially directly outward from hazard detector . An axis of second aperture may be angularly offset from the axis of first aperture to allow the second ultrasonic sensor to view objects at an angle offset and downward relative to first aperture and hazard detector as previously described. In some embodiments the angular offset between the axis of first aperture and the axis of second aperture may be roughly 30 . In other embodiments the angular offset may be between about 15 and 45 20 and 40 and the like.

Main body of front casing further includes a plurality of openings that allow air to substantially freely flow to one or more internal components through the front casing . Air flows through the plurality of openings in a relatively unimpeded manner thereby increasing airflow to the internal components of hazard detector such as smoke chamber . In this manner detection of the presence of smoke or other conditions may be enhanced due to the increased air flow. In one embodiment a collective area of the openings of front casing is between about 10 and about 60 of the area of front casing s front surface. A collective area of between 10 and 60 is believed to increase airflow into the hazard detector and or into smoke chamber . In a specific embodiment a collective area of the openings of front casing is at least 20 of the surface area of front casing . A collective area of at least 20 of openings is likewise believed to greatly enhance airflow into hazard detector and or to one or more internal components positioned behind front casing such as smoke chamber CO detector one or more microprocessors and the like. In another embodiment the collective area of openings of front casing is between about 10 and about 40 of the surface area of front casing . This collective area is believed to optimize airflow into hazard detector and or to the internal components.

In one embodiment front casing is at least 2 millimeters thick and composed of a Polycarbonate PC and or Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene ABS plastic material such as those manufactured by LG Chem ltd. and sold under the tradename Lupoy GP1006FM. In another embodiment the front casing is composed of a ABS PC plastic material such as those manufactured by LG Chem ltd. and sold under the tradename Lupoy GN5001RFH. The materials used in the front casing are typically flame rated V0 or higher to allow the front casing to pass all flame code requirements despite having multiple openings or holes. In some embodiments the diameter of each of the openings may be varied along the front surface of front casing . The above described inventions and material of front casing allows the front casing to pass conventional flame retardant tests despite having a plurality of holes and a relatively large portion of the front surface open.

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of a lens button . Lens button includes a front surface and a rear surface . Lens button is configured to be coupled with front casing by attaching lens button to light ring and coupling light ring to the surface portion of front casing . Lens button is configured to be pressed by a user to provide input to hazard detector and or for various other purposes such as quieting an alarm device. Lens button is further configured to be transparent to one or more sensors positioned behind lens button . For example in one embodiment a PIR sensor is positioned behind lens button . The PIR sensor is able to view external objects through lens button to determine if an occupant is present within a room in which hazard detector is positioned.

The rear surface of lens button may have a Fresnel lens pattern that allows the PIR sensor or another sensor positioned behind lens button to view far into the room in which hazard detector is positioned. In one embodiment Fresnel lens pattern may include a plurality of concentrically arranged rings that each provides a slightly different viewing cone. Each concentrically arranged ring may provide a progressively larger viewing area or cone than a concentrically arranged located radially closer to a central axis of lens button . In one embodiment an internal angle of the viewing cones provided by Fresnel lens pattern may vary from between about 15 and about 150 so as to provide a viewing radius on a floor or wall positioned directly in front of the hazard detector at a distance of approximately 10 feet of between about 0.5 m and about 8.8 m. In this manner the PIR sensor or other sensor positioned behind lens button may easily detect the presence of an occupant within a room in which hazard detector is positioned.

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of a light ring that may be used to disperse light provided by an LED or other light source so as to provide a halo effect behind and around lens button . Light ring includes a body portion and may be coupled with lens button via adhesive bonding or any other method known in the art. In turn light ring may be coupled with front casing such as by orienting light ring with respect to surface of front casing and pressing light ring axially downward relative to front casing so that recessed portions of light ring mate and coupled with tabs of front casing . Tabs may fit over the recessed portions of light ring and secure light ring adjacent surface . Light ring also includes a plurality of second recesses within which an LED not shown or other light source may be positioned to illuminate light ring . In operation light ring disperses light provided by the LED or other light source to provide a halo effect behind and around lens button .

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of a flexible circuit board or flex ring that may electrically couple components positioned in front of circuit board such as lens button with circuit board . Flex ring includes a tail end or ribbon that may be insertable into a component of circuit board to electrically couple lens button light ring and or one or more components with circuit board . Flex ring also includes a central portion that may include a PIR sensor that is positioned so as to be behind lens button . The central portion of flex ring further includes a plurality of flanges that mate with the flanges of front casing so as to orient flex ring relative to front casing and or couple flex ring therewith. Specifically a channel between flanges may fit around flange of front casing to orient and couple flex ring with front casing . Flex ring further includes a circumferentially arranged ring portion having a plurality of LED lights or other source of light coupled therewith. The plurality of LED lights are arranged so as to be insertable within recessed portions of light ring . LED lights illuminate light ring as previously described. A bottom surface of the central portion of flex ring includes a pressable button that is actuated as lens button is pressed by a user. In this manner input is provided to the hazard detector by the user as previously described.

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of a cover plate that may be coupled with a front surface of front casing . Cover plate is configured to face an occupant of a room in which hazard detector is positioned. Cover plate includes a body portion having a plurality of openings that provide a visually pleasing appearance to an occupant of the room in which hazard detector is positioned. The openings may be circular in shape and in one embodiment have a diameter of between about 1.25 and 2.5 millimeters. Openings may cover a relatively large portion of body . In some embodiments cover plate may comprise a square configuration having dimensions of approximately 134 mm by 134 mm. Cover plate may have a thickness of about or at least 0.5 mm and more commonly about 0.6 mm although other thicknesses are possible. In one embodiment the diameter of one or more openings or substantially all openings may be about the same as a wall thickness or spacing between edges of adjacent openings of cover plate . In another embodiment the openings may be about twice the wall thickness between adjacent openings .

In one embodiment the size of the openings may be varied such that body comprises a plurality of different sized openings . Similarly the shape of openings may be varied so that configurations other than circular configurations are included e.g. oval square rectangular diamond triangular and the like . Body portion of cover plate also includes a centrally located aperture within which lens button and light ring are positioned.

As described previously the ultrasonic sensors i.e. and are positioned distally behind cover plate . Openings are configured and dimensioned so that an occupant of the room in which hazard detector is positioned is unable to see the internal components of hazard detector behind cover plate such as ultrasonic sensors and . Openings further allow air to flow substantially freely behind cover plate and to the one or more internal components positioned there behind. Air flows through the cover plate in a relatively unimpeded manner such that air flow into the hazard detector and or to one or more internal components is substantially increased due to the openings of cover plate . In addition openings allow objects or individuals in front of cover plate to be viewable by the one or more sensors positioned behind cover plate . For example the ultrasonic sensors and or or other sensors position behind cover plate are capable of detecting objects and or persons from behind the cover plate . The sensors and or however are not viewable by occupants of the room in which the detector is positioned.

As described herein cover plate includes a relatively large population of relatively small openings . For example body may include 1000 2000 or more of such openings . The number and spacing of openings depends on the diameter of the openings and or the design or pattern of the openings used. In one embodiment a collective area of the openings may be between about 20 and about 80 of the total surface area of cover plate . In another embodiment the collective area of the openings may be at least 30 of the total surface area of cover plate . Even though the scope of the disclosure is not necessarily so limited it has been found that a collective area of openings of at least 30 is beneficial because it provides good air flow through cover plate to the one or more components positioned there behind. In one embodiment the collective area of openings may be at least 20 of the total surface area of cover plate . A collective area of 20 of openings may not be as advantageous with respect to air flow as a collective area of 30 however the collective area of 20 may be more advantageous for hiding internal components of hazard detector from view of occupants of the room such as sensors and .

In another embodiment the collective area of openings may be at least 40 of the total surface area of cover plate . In a further embodiment the collective area of openings may be at least 50 of the total surface area of cover plate . In still a further embodiment the collective area of openings may be at least 60 of the total surface area of cover plate . As briefly described above the increasingly greater collective area of openings may be advantageous with respect to air flow through cover plate but may not be advantageous for hiding internal components of hazard detector from view. Stated differently for air flow purposes a collective area of openings of 50 is generally better than a collective area 40 while a collective area of 60 is generally better than a collective area of 50 . In contrast for visibility of internal components purposes a collective area of openings of 40 is generally better than a collective area of 50 while a collective area 50 is generally better than a collective area of 60 . The collective area of openings used may depend on the internal components of the hazard detector an intended distance of the hazard detector from an occupant the function or purpose of the hazard detector and the like.

The openings may be arranged with respect to body according to a repeating pattern. For example in one embodiment the openings are arranged with respect to body according to a Fibonacci sequence. Such arrangement provides a visually pleasing appearance to occupants of the room in which hazard detector is present thereby allowing hazard detector to be visually attractive and or appear as a decorative object rather than appearing as a component of an appliance as with many conventional smoke detectors carbon monoxide detectors and other hazard detectors. For some embodiments the arrangement of openings and the pattern provided thereby may be designed so as to produce any desired visual effect. For example the openings may be arranged so as to appear as an animal a famous landmark a trademark or brand image e.g. NFL franchise logo and the like and the like. In some embodiments the arrangement of openings may be custom designed by occupant of the home or structure in which the hazard detector will reside.

The openings in the cover plate and or front casing may allow the hazard detector to be used for additional purposes. For example in one embodiment LED lights not shown can be mounted on or otherwise coupled with the front casing and behind the cover plate . The LED lights can be illuminated so as to be visible to occupants within the room or area in which the hazard detector is located. The LED lights may functions as part of a warning or alarm mechanism to alert the occupant to a possible danger. Such a feature may be highly desirable for individuals that are hearing disabled or that have hearing disable friends or relatives or otherwise anticipate hearing disabled visitors within the home or structure. The LED lights may not be visible to the occupants until or unless the LED lights are illuminated.

In some embodiments instructions may be visually displayed through the cover plate via LED lights or an LCD panel mounted behind the cover plate . For example the LED lights could be used in combination with the speaker of the hazard detector to help occupants of the home or structure safely exit the structure. The speaker may alert the occupant to proceed to an exit indicated by an arrow that is displayed through the cover plate via the LED lights e.g. flashing or static display . When a home or building includes multiple hazard detectors information may be passed to each of the hazard detectors or the hazard detectors may be controlled via a central control so that each of the hazard detectors displays an arrow that directs occupants to safely exit the building or home. The arrows displayed may be controlled so as to lead the occupants away from a source of the alarm such as a fire or away from areas of high CO concentration and the like.

In a similar manner the LEDs may lead firefighters or other rescuers to the source of the alarm such as the source of the fire. Likewise when a PIR sensor ultrasonic sensor or another sensor detects the presence of an occupant in the home or structure the LEDs behind cover plate may visually display the number of occupants that remain in the home or structure to a firefighter or rescuer. Such features may greatly assist the firefighter or rescuer in assessing any risks related to the alarm and in quickly finding and rescuing occupants.

In one embodiment each opening may include one or more LED lights positioned there behind such that as a whole the entire surface of cover plate and hazard detector becomes or appears to become like an LED screen. In this manner each opening functions as a pixel of the LED screen. The LED screen or lights may be used to display various information to an occupant or occupants such as current CO levels battery status various messages alarm source location short videos and the like. In some embodiments the visible patterns of the LED lights can be formed into artistic shapes such as may impress vision in the mind of the viewer. For example the LED lights may be used to form a famous symbol such as Abe Lincoln used to form an image of an animal such as an eagle used to form various popular trademarks or brand marks such as an NFL franchise logo and the like.

Referring now to an example silence gesture will be described. As shown in at block an occupant is standing in room while an alarm in smoke or hazard detector is active and making a BEEP sound. A light such as an LED is provided on an outer portion of the smart hazard detector such that the occupant can see the light when it is turned on. The operation of the light will be described with reference to . Suffice to say for the light is turned off in blocks through . As shown at block the occupant has walked to a position closer to the smart hazard detector which is mounted out of reach on the ceiling of the room. As shown at block the occupant walked to a position even closer to the smart hazard detector such that the occupant is almost directly under the smart hazard detector . As shown at arrow of block the occupant while standing almost directly under the smart hazard detector is beginning to extend an arm upward toward the smart hazard detector .

Referring now to block of the arm of the occupant is extended upward toward the smart hazard detector while the occupant is standing almost directly under the smart hazard detector . After an alarm sounds and the pulse rate increases the ultrasonic sensor the smart hazard detector looks for a trigger to the silence gesture period which is the amount of time the silence gesture must be maintained to deactivate the alarm. According to some embodiments the trigger is a distance change from a baseline and to deactivate the alarm the distance change must be maintained for the entire silence gesture period e.g. three seconds . For example if the baseline is a distance between the sensor and the floor of the room then the sensor is looking for an object to come in between it and the floor thereby changing the distance measured by the sensor. In some embodiments the distance change must be significant enough to ensure that someone is close and likely intends to silence the alarm. For example if the distance to the floor is ten feet then the requisite distance change could be eight feet or eighty percent of the original distance. As such the object would be required to be within two feet of the sensor to trigger the silence gesture period and to deactivate the alarm the object must remain there for the duration of the period. The requisite distance change can be configured based on the height of the ceiling and based on the height of the occupants among other things.

Referring still to block the light is turned on when the occupant successfully triggers the silence gesture period thereby signaling to the occupant to remain in the position for the requisite period such as three seconds. Here the hand of the occupant triggered the silence gesture period. A tolerance is built in such that if the occupant slightly moves and loses but quickly regains the signal the silence gesture period will continue without having to start over. As shown in block the occupant kept the hand in within the requisite distance of the sensor for the duration of the silence gesture period and thus the alarm has been deactivated the BEEP has stopped and the light has turned off. As shown at blocks and the occupant can walk away from the smart hazard detector and resume normal activity.

It should be appreciated that in the event the smart hazard detector is of a design that receives reliable power from the wiring of the home rather than being battery powered a CCD chip could be used to detect the silence gesture . However such an arrangement may be less suitable than ultrasonic sensors for battery powered hazard detectors because the CCD chips and associated processing can consume a relatively large amount of power and may quickly drain the battery. Other possible alternatives to ultrasonic sensors and include passive IR sensors thermopile e.g. thermo cameras laser distance measuring laser and a camera combination because camera looks for dot instead of time of arrival Doppler shift and a full on camera and image processing system.

According to some embodiments to enhance the reliability and effectiveness of the silence gesture the ultrasonic sensor and or could work in concert with the PIR sensor to make the sensing even better. For example when an occupant attempts to silence by placing a hand in field the PIR will sense this and thereby trigger the silence gesture period. The ultrasonic sensor and or could also work in concert with the thermopile e.g. thermo camera where both distance change and heat are used to detect the silence gesture. For example the thermo camera detects when human hand is nearby and triggers the silence gesture period. Further the ultrasonic sensor and or could work in concert with the ambient light sensor. For example when the places a hand in the field and blocks light then the ambient light sensor know the occupant is nearby and thus triggers the silence gesture period.

It should be appreciated that according to embodiments similar gesture controls can be applied to other smart devices in the home such as to the smart thermostat the smart wall switches etc. For example there can be gestures for increasing or decreasing temperature controls for turning on and off lights HVAC etc.

Referring now to illustrated is a method of manufacturing a hazard or smoke detector and or a method of use thereof. At block a back plate is provided. As described herein back plate is couplable with a wall or structure so as to secure the hazard or smoke detector relative thereto. At block a front casing is coupled with the back plate so as to define a housing having an interior region within which components of the hazard or smoke detector are contained. At block a circuit board is coupled with the back plate. A hazard sensor may then be mounted on the circuit board. The hazard sensor may include one or more components that are configured to detect a potentially hazardous condition so as to trigger an alarm device. For example at block a smoke chamber is coupled with the circuit board so that the smoke chamber is mid mounted relative to the circuit board. As described herein the mounting of the smoke chamber is characterized in that a top surface of the smoke chamber is positioned above a top surface of the circuit board and a bottom surface of the smoke chamber is positioned below a bottom surface of the circuit board. In this configuration smoke and air are flowable into the smoke chamber from both the top surface of the circuit board and the bottom surface of the circuit board.

In some embodiments one or more additional sensors e.g. ultrasonic sensors PIR sensors and the like may be mounted on the circuit board. The sensors may be configured to detect the presence and or movement of objects and or persons external to the hazard or smoke detector. At block a cover plate may be coupled with the front casing so that the cover plate faces an occupant of a room or area in which the hazard detector is positioned. As described herein the cover plate includes a relatively large population of relatively small openings. The openings are positioned configured and dimensioned so that internal components are substantially hidden from view of the occupant while air is allowed to substantially freely flow to the one or more internal components through the cover plate in a relatively unimpeded manner and while the one or more sensors are capable of detecting the objects and or persons from behind the cover plate. In some embodiments a collective area of the openings may comprise at least 30 or more of the cover plate. At block the hazard detector is operated to detect a potentially hazardous condition. Detecting a potentially hazardous condition may include detecting the presence of smoke detecting abnormally high CO levels detecting heat levels and the like.

Referring next to an exemplary environment with which embodiments may be implemented is shown with a computer system that can be used by a user to remotely control for example one or more of the sensor equipped smart home devices according to one or more of the embodiments. The computer system can alternatively be used for carrying out one or more of the server based processing paradigms described hereinabove can be used as a processing device in a larger distributed virtualized computing scheme for carrying out the described processing paradigms or for any of a variety of other purposes consistent with the present teachings. The computer system can include a computer keyboard a network router a printer and a monitor . The monitor processor and keyboard are part of a computer system which can be a laptop computer desktop computer handheld computer mainframe computer etc. The monitor can be a CRT flat screen etc.

A user can input commands into the computer using various input devices such as a mouse keyboard track ball touch screen etc. If the computer system comprises a mainframe a designer can access the computer using for example a terminal or terminal interface. Additionally the computer system may be connected to a printer and a server using a network router which may connect to the Internet or a WAN.

The server may for example be used to store additional software programs and data. In one embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the server . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the server . In another embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the computer . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the computer system . Therefore in this embodiment the software can be used whether or not computer is connected to network router . Printer may be connected directly to computer in which case the computer system can print whether or not it is connected to network router .

With reference to an embodiment of a special purpose computer system is shown. For example one or more of intelligent components processing engine and components thereof may be a special purpose computer system . The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that directs the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into memory . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Sun Microsystems LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer system . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet . Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

Having described several embodiments it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. Additionally a number of well known processes and elements have not been described in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Accordingly the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limits of that range is also specifically disclosed. Each smaller range between any stated value or intervening value in a stated range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included or excluded in the range and each range where either neither or both limits are included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a process includes a plurality of such processes and reference to the device includes reference to one or more devices and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

Also the words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps acts or groups.

