---

title: Using behavioral data in rating user reputation
abstract: In a system and method for using user behavior and interaction data to rate a reputation of a user, a processor-implemented tracking component tracks an interaction of a user with a network-based publisher. A processor-implemented reputation component generates a reputation value for the user from the tracked user interaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595052&OS=09595052&RS=09595052
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09595052
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151214
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 945 637 filed on Nov. 12 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application relates to a method and system for rating the reputation of a user using behavioral data.

As online applications mature users and merchants increasingly communicate and participate in a variety of transactions and commerce with each other. Buyers and sellers e.g. individuals and merchants transact with each other based on good faith and whatever knowledge they may have about each other as transacting parties and or members of the transacting community. This knowledge often consists of feedback in the form of a rating and or comments left by one party in a transaction for the other party in the transaction. While counterparty feedback may be informative it presents only one party s perspective of a user. For various reasons this perspective may be skewed or biased and may not reflect the user s true reputation in the community. An inaccurate user reputation formed as a result of biased feedback hurts a user s ability to interact in the community and participate in transactions. Thus the ability to present a more accurate reputation of a user in a community is one hurdle to overcome for improving transaction experiences.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In various embodiments a system and method to calculating a reputation value of a user of a network based community using user behavior data is disclosed. A reputation value may be calculated from feedback rating data received in response to a transaction as well as tracked user behavior data.

A data exchange platform in an example form of a network based publisher may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to one or more clients. The one or more clients may include users that utilize the network system and more specifically the network based publisher to exchange data over the network . These transactions may include but are not limited to transmitting receiving communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to content and user data such as feedback data user reputation values user profiles user attributes product and service reviews product service manufacture and vendor recommendations and identifiers product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers auction bids and transaction data among other things.

In various embodiments the data exchanges within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be associated with a client machine such as a client machine using a web client . The web client may be in communication with the network based publisher via a web server . The UIs may also be associated with a client machine using a programmatic client such as a client application or a third party server hosting a third party application . It can be appreciated in various embodiments the client machine or third party application may be associated with a buyer a seller a third party electronic commerce platform a payment service provider or a shipping service provider each in communication with the network based publisher and optionally each other. The buyers and sellers may be any one of individuals merchants or service providers among other things.

Turning specifically to the network based publisher an application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication application s . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more database s .

In one embodiment the web server and the API server communicate and receive data pertaining to listings transactions and feedback among other things via various user input tools. For example the web server may send and receive data to and from a toolbar or webpage on a browser application e.g. web client operating on a client machine e.g. client machine . The API server may send and receive data to and from an application e.g. client application or third party application running on another client machine e.g. client machine or third party server .

The publication application s may provide a number of publisher functions and services e.g. listing payment to users that access the network based publisher . For example the publication application s may provide a number of services and functions to users for listing goods and or services for sale facilitating transactions and reviewing and providing feedback about transactions and associated users. Additionally the publication application s may track and store data and metadata relating to listings transactions and user interaction with the network based publisher . The publication application s may use the tracked data and metadata to calculate a reputation value for the user.

The publication application s are shown to include among other things one or more application s which support the network based publisher and more specifically the listing of goods and or services for sale the receipt of feedback in response to a transaction involving a listing the tracking of data and metadata relating to user interactions with the network based publisher and the generation of reputation values for users based at least in part on the user interaction data.

Store application s permit sellers to list individual goods and or services hereinafter generally referred to as items for sale via the network based publisher or group their listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the sellers. Individual and grouped listings may include details such as a title of an item offered for sale a description of the item a price of the item one or more pictures of the item a geographic location of the seller or the item payment and shipping options and a return policy. The virtual store also may offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller. In one embodiment a seller using a virtual store to sell their goods and services may result in the network based publisher determining a higher reputation value because of an inherent trustworthiness e.g. higher reputation value of a business over an individual seller.

Feedback application s may allow parties that transact using the network based publisher to establish build and maintain buyer or seller reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners e.g. users of the network based publisher . Consider for example where the network based publisher supports person to person trading users may have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and or credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The feedback application s may allow a first user for example through feedback provided by other users to establish a buyer seller reputation within the network based publisher over time and transactions. Thus other potential transaction partners users may then reference the buyer seller reputation value of the user for the purpose of assessing credibility trustworthiness etc.

Feedback may be received in the form of a rating such as a one to five star rating scale or a one to ten numerical scale and answers to a series of questions concerning topics such as satisfaction with a transaction speed in concluding a transaction and promptness of payment or shipping. Feedback additionally may be received in the form of comments input by a counterparty to the transaction. Both types of feedback may be viewed by the user to whom they are directed and other parties who access a profile of the user and may be segregated on a per transaction basis. Conventionally feedback is limited to the rating answers and comments provided by a counterparty thereby providing a user with only a limited perspective of how the user has performed or how the user is perceived by others in the network based community. In addition when other users are attempting to ascertain the reputation of a user the feedback rating left for a user often is relied upon as a quick reference for determining how reputable a user is. Consequently relying solely on the feedback left by others may result in an incomplete determination of a reputation value for a user.

User profile application s may store user information. User information may include personal information submitted by the user such as the name address telephone number electronic mail address birthday and favorites of the user. User information further may include information about the user obtained from the user s interaction with the network based publisher . For example if the user operates as a seller on the network based publisher the user profile application s may store information related to the number and type of items sold or offered for sale by the user. If the user operates as a buyer on the network based publisher the user profile application s may store information related to the items purchased by the user including the prices paid payment information and shipping and insurance options selected by the user.

User profile application s further may store data about user behavior and interaction with the network based publisher . The publisher or one of its components may monitor a user s interactions with the publisher to obtain a set of user behavior data. For example the publisher may monitor the response time taken by the user to respond to a message from a transaction counterparty or potential transaction counterparty. In another example embodiment the user profile application s may store data concerning how long it takes a user to ship an item to a buyer. From this data an average time to ship items may be determined and stored for the user. A third example embodiment may include monitoring and storing the percentage of transactions in which the user provides item tracking information for a buyer. The foregoing examples are intended to be non limiting example other data capable of being measured or monitored that relates to a user s performance as a seller or buyer may be tracked and stored. Collectively these and other monitored data may permit a more complete evaluation of a user as a seller or buyer to be developed.

Reputation application s may operate on the received feedback the tracked user profile or behavioral data or the aggregation of feedback and user data to determine a user s reputation. It can be appreciated by one skilled in the art that users may have a multitude of various types of reputation values in the network based publisher . For example a user may have one reputation value for being a buyer and one as a seller. The user s reputation value may be based on one or more user attributes determined from feedback or tracked user profile or behavioral data. The user attributes may include but are not limited to feedback ratings the user s frequency of interaction with the network based publisher the number of items a user has sold the promptness of the user in concluding a transaction or shipping an item the length of time a user has been using the network based publisher and a category of transaction including a user s expertise e.g. power seller in a category. Some or all of these attributes may have values or weights assigned to them that may be used in conjunction with other values and factors to determine a reputation value of a user.

Reputation application s further may provide user reputation data to third party applications through an exposed application programming interface API . In this respect third party applications may query the network based publisher for a trustworthiness determination for a user of the third party system who may or may not also be a user of the network based community . If the user is part of the network based community reputation application s may retrieve and provide the user s reputation value to the third party system or may make a determination of trustworthiness and provide the determination to the third party system.

In one example embodiment the user profile module may operate in conjunction with the user profile application s to interface with database server s and database s to access and or store data concerning observed user behavior and interaction with the network based publisher . Stored user data may include the time it takes a user to respond or interact with the publisher to complete various tasks. For example the module may store or access the time it takes a user to respond to a question feedback or an inquiry from a counterparty. The module also may access the frequency of interaction between the user and the publisher such as the number of times the user logs in or accesses an interface e.g. website application to the publisher or the number of items the user posts for sale on the publisher in a given time period. It is contemplated that any measurable event involving a user s behavior or interaction with the publisher is capable of being accessed and stored.

The user profile module further may store and or access user submitted information. User submitted information may comprise personal information e.g. name address telephone number electronic mail address user account information e.g. username password security questions payment information billing address shipping address and other user submitted information. Other user submitted information may include but is not limited to credit history information property ownership information and tax information such as tax returns.

The tracking module may track data related to user behavior or interaction with the publisher . The tracking module may monitor the network based publisher for events generated by the publisher or by the user. For example an event may be generated when a transaction occurs between the user and another party. The tracking module may monitor the timing of this event and continue measuring the elapsed time before the user acts in response to the occurrence of the event. The tracking module may provide the tracked timing data to the database server s for storage in the database s . The tracking module further may monitor user interaction with the publisher over a period of time. User interaction may include both a frequency of access to the various interfaces e.g. a publisher website an application that accesses the publisher and a frequency of use of publisher functions e.g. a number of items listed for sale a number of transactions a number of items browsed for purchase . User interaction may be monitored over a period of time with tracked data being measured and monitored over varying time periods.

The tracking module further is configured to monitor the performance of a user such as for example the average time taken to ship an item sold or the percentage of user listings offering shipping tracking data for the item. In an example embodiment the tracking module may track the amount of elapsed time between when a transaction closes and when a seller generates a shipping label to ship the transaction item. Additionally the tracking module may track the amount of time elapsed from when a shipping label is scanned and when the shipped item is delivered. In an example embodiment this information may be obtained from a third party shipping service. This information may be self reported by the user or may be monitored as part of an event that occurs as part of listing or transaction procedures. The tracking module further is configured to communicate with both the database server s to store the tracked data in database s and with the applications of the publisher .

The tracking module may attempt to build or assign structure to collected data relating to a user that otherwise lacks structure. Structure may be given to data through the use of data mining and data organization and classification. Certain types of data such as items sold may be readily organized into categories and sub categories. For example tracking module may separate transactions into item categories such as electronics or clothing and item sub categories such as televisions and audio receivers within the electronics category. Other types of data may require data mining to determine an appropriate scheme by which to classify or organize the data. For example from transaction shipping and feedback data data concerning a seller s performance with respect to geographic regions may be obtained. For example based on shipping data a seller s performance when shipping items to Europe compared to Asia may be determined.

Using tracked data the reputation module may determine a reputation for the user. In one example embodiment the reputation may take the form of a score or a value with a higher value indicating a more reputable user as compared to a lower value. In a further exemplary embodiment each user may have multiple reputational scores or values corresponding to the user s role as a seller or a buyer or corresponding to the user s role as a seller of a first category of items compared to a seller of a second category of items.

The reputation for a user may be generated or calculated in part based on observed user behavior or interaction data monitored by the tracking module. A more responsive user or a user who performs tasks at a faster observed rate may be accorded a higher reputation value. Similarly a user who more frequently accesses or interacts with the publisher or who lists or sells more items over a given time period may be accorded a higher reputation value. Also a user who reports or provides more information about himself to the publisher may be accorded a higher reputation value on the basis that the verification of the user is more easily ascertainable in light of the reported information. Another reason to accord a higher reputation value to a user who self reports information is that the user s willingness to self report personal information may indicate that the user cares about his or her reputation more than a user who fails to provide such information. In an example embodiment the calculated velocity of a user e.g. the number of items sold per time period may influence the reputation value for the user. A user who sells more items over a period of time may be more highly valued than a user who conducts a low volume of transactions. If all other things between the two users are considered equal the reputation value for a high volume user may be higher than a low volume user.

The reputation value of a user may be solely calculated based on observed user behavior and interaction data. Alternatively the user behavior and interaction data may be used to adjust a reputation value derived from feedback ratings left by counterparties. Actual calculation of the reputation value may involve the use of a formula applied to one or more user behavior or interaction data values. The data values further may be weighted to place more emphasis or value on certain user behaviors over others. In an example embodiment the reputation module may weight different user metrics differently on the theory that certain user metrics may be more indicative of seller trustworthiness. For example whether a seller timely ships sold items to buyers may be more indicative that the seller is trustworthy than whether a seller visits a website operated by the network based publisher on a daily basis. Accordingly outstanding performance in the user metrics that tend to indicate trustworthiness may offset subpar performance in other user metrics. Similarly poor performance in the user metrics that tend to indicate trustworthiness may offset superior performance in other user metrics.

The reputation for a user may be exposed by the network based publisher or one of its components to a third party website or server via an API. In this respect third party websites may use the reputation score or value maintained by the network based publisher to verify the veracity or trustworthiness of a user on the third party site.

At decision block a determination as to whether to generate a reputation value for the user solely from the user behavior and interaction data is made. At operation if a determination to generate a reputation value for the user solely from the user behavior and interaction data is made the reputation value is generated. The reputation value may be a numerical value or a binary e.g. yes or no reputation determination. The reputation value may be generated from all or certain ones of the user behavior and interaction data.

At operation if the reputation value is not to be generated solely from the user behavior and interaction data the user behavior and interaction data may be used to adjust a feedback rating given to the user by other users. The feedback rating may be expressed in terms of stars numbers or other identifiers. If the user behavior and interaction data is positive the feedback rating may be adjusted upward while if the user behavior and interaction data indicates the user is not responsive and or active the feedback rating may be adjusted downward.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The preceding technical disclosure is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. For example the above described embodiments or one or more aspects thereof may be used in combination with each other. Other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the claims should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. Furthermore all publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

