---

title: Detection-enhanced adjustable bandwidth circuit
abstract: A circuit apparatus and method for providing spectrum sensing. The invention accepts as inputs actual real-world signals in which the resulting two-dimensional output representation provides useful characteristics or features of the original time/series signal being analyzed. The invention employs both time and frequency averaging to exploit signal persistence in either domain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319080&OS=09319080&RS=09319080
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 09319080
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150112
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

Energy detector based spectrum sensing is typically implemented using the periodogram. By including the time dimension an image can be formed from consecutive periodograms referred to as the spectrogram. Such time varying spectral representations are needed to address the dynamics of the signal environment in spectrum sensing applications. As indicated in reference 3 below challenges associated with traditional implementations of energy detection schemes include i selection of the threshold for detecting primary users ii inability to differentiate interference from primary users and noise and iii poor performance under low signal to noise ratio SNR conditions.

In this sense the spectrogram which is referenced widely in the open literature could be thought of as prior art . More appropriately it would be the spectrogram combined with Welch s method of time averaging 4 . Also included in the prior art is the Adjustable Bandwidth Concept 1 which extends Welch s method to include the ability to average over frequency and allows for operation on log scaled amplitudes in the input spectrogram.

The purpose of the present invention is to provide a circuit apparatus and method for constructing time frequency representations or other two dimensional inputs which are characterized by the bandwidths or persistence of the multitude of components that can comprise the original two dimensional representation. In short the present invention accomplishes this by generating M additional two dimensional representations based on an input two dimensional representation.

One object of the present invention is to provide a circuit apparatus and method for detecting electronic signals.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a circuit apparatus and method for detecting interfering electronic signals.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a circuit apparatus and method that separates signal components according to their bandwidth.

Still yet another object of the present invention is to provide a circuit apparatus and method that performs both time and frequency averaging to increase detection and reduce false alarm probabilities.

Still yet another object of the present invention is to provide a circuit apparatus and method for processing acquired real signals from analog to digital converters.

Still yet another object of the present invention is to provide a circiut apparatus and method that creates displayable output signals for a human operator.

Still yet another object of the present invention is to provide a circiut apparatus and method that creates control signals for controlling parameters in external real systems.

Briefly stated the present invention provides a circiut apparatus and method for spectrum sensing. The invention accepts as input a real time varying analog signal and outputs a spectrogram of the original time series signal being analyzed. The invention employs both time and frequency averaging to exploit signal persistence in either or both domains.

Referring to the present invention a Detection Enhanced Adjustable Bandwidth ABC circuit apparatus is depicted. Briefly the invention comprises a front end which converts analog signals such as those occurring in free space into a digital domain suitable for subsequent processing by the invention. The preferred embodiment of the circuit apparatus comprises analog to digital and digital to analog converters special purpose hardware high speed programmable gate arrays and high speed digital signal processors to achieve the same signal processing utility without being dependent on a computer. Alternatively signal processing stages may be performed by a computer running a computer software program which executes a sequence of computer performed steps. The invention converts the results of the aforesaid processing into analog outputs comprising voltage and control signals required to drive graphical displays for the presentation of time frequency representations of the original input analog signal.

Still referring to to achieve the Power Spectral Density PSD of a real signal in free space x the signal is first sampled by an Analog to Digital Converter ADC parsed into sequential vectors of length N samples in Parser optionally weighted by a weighting data window such as a Hanning window in Weight transformed via a fast Fourier transform and squared in FFT and then compressed in amplitude by logarithmic compression in Log10 . The invention next processes sequential vectors of digital spectral data right arrow over X n over the segment index n. The N elements of the input vector can also be derived from an external process that estimates the Power Spectral Density PSD of a data sequence to be processed by the present ABC invention. When for example the data sequence is a function of time an increase in the segment index corresponds to an increase in time and the overall sequence of PSD estimates provides a two dimensional representation of the variations in spectral content of the data sequence over time and frequency. The ABC device is an M stage process M 1 which generates M additional two dimensional representations from the input two dimensional representation. Although a common application of the ABC device will be for automated signal energy detection other applications can be anticipated where two dimensional matrices of data such as images are to be analyzed. For the purposes of this description the signal energy detection from real world analog signals application of the invention is assumed.

Still referring to an N element data vector right arrow over X is filtered over elements k 1 2 . . . N through a parallel set of M Band pass Filters . . . . The resulting set of M vectors are designated as right arrow over X right arrow over X . . . right arrow over X each also consisting of N elements. In prior art without detection enhancement these vectors would then be processed by Ensemble Averagers right arrow over A right arrow over A . . . right arrow over A respectively. Each averager performs an ensemble average over Ksegments for any given stage i. After averaging over consecutive segments the resulting vectors can then be compared to thresholds . . . respectively resulting in the binary valued detection vectors right arrow over D right arrow over D . . . right arrow over D . For the energy detection application of the device components . . . each accomplish a weighted average over the frequency dimension and Ensemble Averager Detectors . . . each accomplish an average over the time segment dimension. Generally the parameters of the filters and averagers are chosen to provide more frequency filtering and less time averaging in earlier stages. Likewise less frequency filtering and more time segment averaging is provided in later stages. Here the terms earlier and later are used in reference to the stage number and are not in reference to time.

The parameters of the Band Pass Filters . . . are chosen to achieve unity gain in their pass bands and to ensure the perfect reconstruction property 

Detection enhancement is accomplished by taking advantage of the characteristics of the spectral components that occur in stages 1 through i 1 relative to stage i. The Band pass Filters . . . are designed to sort the spectral content of the input vector right arrow over X based on bandwidth. Therefore the spectral components contained in right arrow over X are more persistent over the frequency dimension relative to components in right arrow over X right arrow over X . . . right arrow over X 

In general the spectral components of right arrow over X are more persistent over the frequency dimension relative to components in right arrow over X right arrow over X . . . right arrow over X . Conversely this implies that due to relatively less persistence the spectral components of right arrow over X behaved as nascent Kronecker delta sequences in the Band pass filters of stages 1 through i 1. As a result these nascent Kronecker delta sequences elicited responses in these Band pass Filters that are a function of the impulse response of the filters. Furthermore due to the perfect reconstruction property of the set of Band pass Filters negated versions of these undesired responses are then present in stage i. This cross contamination between stages is a natural consequence of the perfect reconstruction property combined with the non ideal nature of practical filters. To achieve perfect reconstruction with practical filters overlap between frequency responses will occur and lead to useful but imperfect separation of signal components.

Still referring to detection enhancement is accomplished by a series of additional processing steps after the initial set of Band pass Filters . . . . Subtractor forms the difference of the vector right arrow over X minus the output vector of Band pass Filter . Summer sums the scalar threshold parameters and . The output vector from the stage M Band pass Filter is processed by Detector using as a threshold the output of Summer . Detector compares each element of the input vector to the scalar sum threshold from and creates a new vector with elements of value 1 or 0. For elements of the input vector that are greater than or equal to the threshold the corresponding element of the output vector is 1. Otherwise the output vector elements are 0. The Detector output vector and the output vector of Subtractor are multiplied element by element in Multiplier . The resulting output vector from is then filtered over the frequency dimension i.e. over the elements of the vector in Band pass Filters . . . . The parameters of filter are identical to those of filter the parameters of filter are identical to those of filter and so on. The output vectors of Band pass Filters . . . are summed with the output vector of Band pass Filter in Summer . The output vector of Summer is now a final corrected version of the vector right arrow over X .

In preparation for final corrections to vector right arrow over X Subtractor forms the difference of the output vector of Band pass filter minus the output vector of Band pass Filter . Likewise Subtractor forms the difference of the output vector of Band pass Filter minus the output vector of Band pass Filter . These difference vectors are formed for the first M 1 stages. In this manner the perfect reconstruction property is maintained across the output vectors of Subtractors and Summer and these output vectors have been corrected based on detections from stage M. In the next step final corrections are made to stage M 1 and initial corrections are made to stages 1 through M 2 based on detections from stage M 1 using threshold . These final and initial correction processes continue likewise for stages M 1 to 2. The correction process is completed when stage 2 detections are used to correct stages 1 and 2.

Still referring to Summer forms the sum of the scalar and for the threshold of Detector . The current version of the corrected vector right arrow over X from the last Subtractor in stage 2 is compared element by element to this threshold and creates a new vector with elements of value 1 or 0. For elements of the input vector that are greater than or equal to the threshold the corresponding element of the output vector is 1. Otherwise the output vector elements are 0. Multiplier performs an element by element multiply of the detection vector from Detector with the output difference vector of Subtractor . The output vector of Multiplier is filtered over elements by Band pass Filter . In Summer the output vector of Band pass Filter is summed with the current version of the corrected vector right arrow over X from the last Subtractor in stage 2. The output of Summer is the final corrected version of right arrow over X . Finally Subtractor forms the difference of the most recent corrected version of right arrow over X minus the output vector of Band pass Filter . All final corrected versions of vectors right arrow over X right arrow over X . . . right arrow over X are then independently averaged over the time dimension in Ensemble Averager Detectors . . . as described for the prior art. Although detection vectors are shown at the outputs of Averager Detectors . . . resulting vectors from the ensemble averages can also be output for further external processing and analysis.

Digital to Analog Converter creates real continuous time signals from the detection or average vectors from and . These real output signals and C are the output video and control signals respectively. These signals are used in external devices for display to a human operator and for control of parameters of external devices.

To demonstrate the effectiveness of the ABC process comparisons to the conventional ABC process of U.S. Pat. No. 5 257 211 can be made using a two dimensional input which by design contains signal components of multiple bandwidths. The signal simulations and results were obtained using Matlab . For the results presented both the ABC and ABC were 3 stage processes i.e. M 3 configured with the same Band pass filters and parameters. The band pass filter parameters were derived from the equivalent low pass ABC implementation. These low pass filter parameters were created using the Matlab fir1 command as fir1 64 .01 and fir1 64 .1 for stage 1 and stage 2 respectively. The corresponding band pass filter responses are shown . No time averaging was used in the results presented i.e. the selected parameters of the averagers are K 1 K 1 and K 1.

For the demonstration the two dimensional input is a spectrogram containing three signal components each of increasingly wider bandwidth. As seen in a narrow bandwidth component is present in the center of the frequency range. Additionally a wide bandwidth component is located in the upper frequency range and a medium bandwidth component is located in the lower frequency range. Noise is also present across the entire frequency range resulting in a spectrogram that simulates data acquired from an actual communication receiver. The frequency dimension of the test input is 512 elements or frequency bins and the time dimension is 50 segments.

Referring to the first stage of the conventional prior art ABC process performs reasonably well in that the wide bandwidth component is present and the narrow bandwidth component is almost completely attenuated although some small remnants of signal energy can be seen. Although greatly reduced relative to the input the medium bandwidth component is still present in sufficient amount due to the non ideal nature of practical filters. Comparing this result to that of the ABC process shown in the narrow bandwidth component has been effectively eliminated in stage 1 and the medium bandwidth component is significantly reduced without reducing the wide bandwidth component.

Referring to and depicts the stage 2 results. Again it is readily apparent that although the conventional ABC process of U.S. Pat. No. 5 257 211 does predominantly yield the medium bandwidth signal component in this stage some of the narrow bandwidth component is still present. For the present invention s ABC process both the wide bandwidth and narrow bandwidth components have been effectively eliminated in this stage.

Referring to and depicts the stage 3 results the conventional ABC process very effectively eliminates the wide bandwidth and medium bandwidth components but has slightly attenuated the narrow bandwidth component. The present invention s ABC process likewise eliminates the wide bandwidth and the medium bandwidth components but has less attenuation of the narrow bandwidth component when compared to the conventional ABC process of U.S. Pat. No. 5 257 211.

Referring to shows a M order embodiment of the present invention having a quantity of M band pass filters in the first filter bank the second filter bank having M 1 band pass filters and the third fourth etc. each having one less band pass filter than the prior bank of filters. It follows that the number of multipliers subtractors detectors etc. will be scaled appropriately to the MI order of the apparatus. It is clearly within the scope of the present invention that the apparatus can be scaled as just described to any degree as applications may require.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

