---

title: Mountable, thermal situational-awareness accessory for use with optical devices
abstract: A situational-awareness accessory comprises a housing including a control board, a user display, and a visual sensor for receiving electromagnetic radiation that is invisible to the human eye from a wide-angle, optical field-of-view in front of the visual sensor. The control board converts the received electromagnetic radiation into visual display data and initiates display of the visual display data on the user display. A quick-detach accessory base mount coupled with the housing permits attachment of the housing to an accessory rail.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602730&OS=09602730&RS=09602730
owner: Torrey Pines Logic, Inc.
number: 09602730
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151231
---
This application is a Non Provisional Patent Application of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 098 585 filed on Dec. 31 2014 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Currently when using an optical device e.g. a firearm scope spotting scope binocular telescope etc. with a relatively narrow field of view FOV and particularly an optical device that is not designed to operate in a no light or low light situation it can be extremely difficult to differentiate and engage a desired target in a no light situation due to a lack of available ambient light and the relatively narrow FOV offered by the optical device. Even in situations where the optical device can be switched to a no light type optical device e.g. a night vision scope and an attempt is made to use the optical device a failure of a desired task can occur due to an inability to find and engage a target and assess a tactical situation due to the optical device s narrow FOV.

In an implementation the situational awareness accessory comprises a housing including a control board a user display and a visual sensor for receiving electromagnetic radiation that is invisible to the human eye from a wide angle optical field of view FOV in front of the visual sensor a control board for converting the received electromagnetic radiation into visual display data and to initiate display of the visual display data on the user display a quick detach accessory base mount coupled with the housing and permitting attachment of the housing to an accessory rail the quick detach accessory base mount including a rail clamp carried to selectively clamp the base mount to the accessory rail a mounting arm coupled with a pivot shaft threaded to hold a preload screw opposite the mounting arm and the rail clamp the mounting arm configured to rotate relative to the base mount between a clamped and an unclamped position associated with the rail clamp the rotation of the mounting arm causing the rail clamp to clamp and unclamp the base mount to the accessory rail respectively and an interlock configured to selectively restrict rotation of the mounting arm between the clamped and unclamped positions.

In another implementation the situational awareness accessory comprises a housing including a control board a user display and a visual sensor for receiving electromagnetic radiation that is invisible to the human eye from a wide angle optical field of view FOV in front of the visual sensor a control board for converting the received electromagnetic radiation into visual display data and to initiate display of the visual display data on the user display a quick detach accessory base mount coupled with the housing and permitting attachment of the housing to an accessory rail the quick detach accessory base mount including a rail clamp carried to selectively clamp the base mount to the accessory rail and a rotatable mounting arm coupled with a pivot shaft passing through the rail clamp the pivot shaft threaded to hold a preload screw opposite the mounting arm and the rail clamp the preload screw used to configure a clamping force of the rail clamp to the accessory rail and the preload screw secured to the mounting arm in a particular position using a preload grub screw.

The foregoing and other implementations can each optionally include one or more of the following features alone or in combination 

A first aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein electromagnetic radiation receivable by the visual sensor includes at least one of ultraviolet UV infrared IR or X ray.

A second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects comprising an objective lens to provide at least one of protection or functionality enhancement to the visual sensor.

A third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the functionality enhancement includes one or more of providing a wider FOV magnification and filtering of one or more wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation.

A fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the visual sensor is configured to be interchangeable within the housing.

A fifth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects comprising an aiming type indicator displayed on the user display.

A sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects comprising optical or digital zoom functionality provided with the visual sensor to provide a zoomed image on the user display.

A seventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the control board provides connectivity functionality with an external computing device.

An eighth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the external computing device can configure the situational awareness accessory record data received from the situational awareness accessory and supply data to the situational awareness accessory for display on the user display.

A ninth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the control board comprises a first control board and a second control board joined by a flexible data connection and folded back to back within the housing.

One method of use includes associating a situational awareness accessory with an optical device the situational awareness accessory including a user display and a visual sensor activating the situational awareness accessory to receive electromagnetic radiation that is invisible to the human eye from a wide angle optical field of view FOV in front of a visual sensor adjusting settings for the situational awareness accessory on the user display viewing the user display of the situational awareness accessory to make a situational awareness evaluation of an immediate area in front of the situational awareness accessory the user display displaying the received electromagnetic radiation converted into visual display data and using the optical device to engage a target based on the situational awareness evaluation.

The foregoing implementation can optionally include one or more of the following features alone or in combination 

A first aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein associating the situational awareness accessory with the optical device includes use of a quick detach accessory base mount configured as part of the situational awareness accessory the quick detach accessory base mount including a rail clamp carried to selectively clamp the base mount to the accessory rail a mounting arm coupled with a pivot shaft threaded to hold a preload screw opposite the mounting arm and the rail clamp the mounting arm configured to rotate relative to the base mount between a clamped and an unclamped position associated with the rail clamp the rotation of the mounting arm causing the rail clamp to clamp and unclamp the base mount to the accessory rail respectively and an interlock configured to selectively restrict rotation of the mounting arm between the clamped and an unclamped position.

A second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects comprising interchanging the visual sensor in the situational awareness accessory depending upon which wavelength of electromagnetic radiation desired to be used to make the situational awareness evaluation.

A third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects comprising connecting the situational awareness accessory to an external computing device wherein the external computing device can be used to configure the situational awareness accessory record data received from the situational awareness accessory and to supply data to the situational awareness accessory for display on the user display.

Other implementations of this aspect can include corresponding computer systems apparatuses and computer programs recorded on one or more computer readable media storage devices each configured to perform one or more actions or methods associated with the described situational awareness accessory for use with optical devices. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of software firmware or hardware installed on the system that in operation causes the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in particular implementations so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. First the use of the situational awareness accessory in conjunction with a daylight type optical device can extend the usefulness of the daylight type optical device into situations where ambient light is naturally fading e.g. at dusk sunset or when entering a no light or low light environment e.g. a building with no lights moonless cloudy night in woods jungle etc. . For example the situational awareness accessory can be used to provide a thermal or other invisible light wide angle situational awareness field of view FOV situational awareness of an area in front of a user to allow the user to quickly and accurately spot a target and orient a normally degraded functionality daylight type optical device toward the target in a no light environment. This increase in reaction time can result in proper and effective target engagement and enhance overall safety for the situational awareness accessory user. When using a low light optical device the situational awareness accessory can still provide situational awareness to the user with the above mentioned provided benefits. Second the situational awareness accessory can itself be used to provide an overall situational awareness for the user of a daylight or no light type optical device. For example a user of a firearm with an attached optical device and situational awareness accessory can sweep the firearm across a particular area in a no light environment and use the situational awareness accessory to generate a quick assessment of a number of potential targets differentiate friend vs. foe determine a tactical situation and the like. Third the situational awareness accessory can provide greater confidence confirmation of the identity of a target when used in conjunction with a daylight type or even no light type optical device. For example the situational awareness accessory can be used to verify that a target is in actuality a target desired to be engaged. As a particular example a hunter can confirm at dusk that an object seen in the daylight type optical device is actually an animal being hunted as opposed to a human hunter concealed in vegetation. At night the situational awareness accessory could be used to confirm that a group of people are in fact police officers by the way they are moving as opposed to sought after perpetrators trying to escape police on foot. Fourth the thermal nature of an example situational awareness accessory can also be used to peer through smoke haze fog and or other obscurants in the air. For example in a situation where law enforcement has a problem with criminals in a specific house building smoke grenades are often thrown into the building and law enforcement then enters. Standard night vision no light or optical scopes are useless in this environment due to the smoke in the air. However in the thermal band law enforcement can see through the generated smoke and make out people furniture etc. Other advantages will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The following detailed description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make use and or practice the disclosed subject matter and is provided in the context of one or more particular implementations. Various modifications to the disclosed implementations will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other implementations and applications without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the described and or illustrated implementations but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Currently when using an optical device e.g. a firearm scope spotting scope binocular telescope etc. with a relatively narrow field of view FOV e.g. 3 10 degrees and particularly an optical device that is not designed to operate in a no light situation it can be extremely difficult to differentiate and engage a desired target in a no light situation due to a lack of available ambient light and the relatively narrow FOV offered by the optical device. Even in situations where the optical device can be switched to a no light type optical device e.g. a night vision scope and an attempt is made to use the optical device a failure of a desired task can occur due to an inability to find and engage a target and assess a tactical situation due to the optical device s narrow FOV.

At a high level what is described is a situational awareness accessory for use with optical devices both daylight and no light types . In typical implementations the situational awareness accessory is a thermal version of a sighting system similar to a standard red dot type display but all digital in operating principle. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art the situational awareness accessory could also be made to operate in other wavelengths e.g. switchable between single wavelengths or concurrent detection of multiple wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation e.g. visible spectrum ultraviolet UV X ray and or other wavelengths . The use of the situational awareness accessory in conjunction with a daylight type optical device can extend the usefulness of the daylight type optical device into situations where ambient light is naturally fading e.g. at dusk sunset imperceptible or when entering a no light environment e.g. a building etc. . For example the situational awareness accessory can be used to provide a thermal wide angle e.g. 25 50 degrees situational awareness field of view FOV situational awareness of an area in front of a user to allow the user to quickly and accurately spot a target in the available displayed wide FOV and orient a normally degraded functionality daylight type optical device toward the target in a no light environment. This increase in reaction time can result in proper and effective target engagement and enhance overall safety for the situational awareness accessory user. When using a no light optical device the situational awareness accessory can still provide situational awareness to the user with the above mentioned provided benefits. The situational awareness accessory can itself be used to provide an overall situational awareness for the user of a daylight or no light type optical device. For example a user of a firearm with an attached optical device and situational awareness accessory can sweep the firearm across a particular area in a no light environment and use the situational awareness accessory to generate a quick assessment of a number of potential targets differentiate friend vs. foe determine a tactical situation and the like. The situational awareness accessory can also provide greater confidence confirmation of the identity of a target when used in conjunction with a daylight type or even no light type optical device. For example the situational awareness accessory can be used to verify that a target is in actuality a target desired to be engaged. As a particular example a hunter can confirm at dusk that an object seen in the daylight type optical device is actually an animal being hunted as opposed to a human hunter concealed in vegetation. At night the situational awareness accessory could be used to confirm that a group of people are in fact police officers by the way they are moving as opposed to sought after perpetrators trying to escape police on foot. The thermal nature of an example situational awareness accessory can also be used to peer through smoke haze fog and or other obscurants in the air. For example in a situation where law enforcement has a problem with criminals in a specific house building smoke grenades are often thrown into the building and law enforcement then enters. Standard night vision no light or optical scopes are useless in this environment due to the smoke in the air. However in the thermal band law enforcement can see through the generated smoke and make out people furniture etc.

The housing can be made of one or more metals plastics rubbers composite materials or other suitable materials. In the illustrated implementation of the situational awareness accessory the housing forms a type of hood over the user display and visual sensor to offer protection from impact. In some implementations the housing can be configured to be attached to the body e.g. by adhesives mechanical fasteners welds etc. . In other implementations the housing can be integrally machined as part of the body . The housing is configured to permit installation of an internal control board e.g. user display visual sensor control board e.g. see etc. . In some implementations the battery compartment can be attached to the housing and or the body . In some implementations the housing can be configured to accept O rings plastic glass display sensor covers and other types of sealing components to make the housing waterproof to protect internally mounted components e.g. the internal control board and related components .

In some implementations the accessory rail mounting system includes a cam supported rail clamp moveable to selectively clamp the situational awareness accessory to an accessory rail rail such as that commonly found on a firearm tripod fence building vehicle etc. Examples of a rail can include a WEAVER or PICATINNY also known as a MIL STD 1913 STANAG 2324 or tactical rail . An example of the accessory rail mounting system is described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 923 044 which is hereby incorporated by reference. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art the accessory rail mounting system can vary in form implementation and design. The design of the accessory rail mounting system as long as capable of attaching the situational awareness accessory to a rail is not meant to limit the other described components of the situational awareness accessory in any manner.

The power button is designed to power the situational awareness accessory on and off. In some implementations the power button can have additional functionality such as multiple clicks for a timed ON OFF mode press and hold to change operational modes etc. In some implementations the power button can be used in conjunction with the adjustment button to provide additional adjustment functionality. For example when adjusting the situational awareness accessory user display functions a momentary press of the power button may allow for adjustments while a longer more purposeful press of the power button will provide power functionality. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art the power button can vary in form implementation and design and these variances are not meant to limit the situational awareness accessory in any manner.

The adjustment button is designed to provide adjustment functionality for features functions of the situational awareness accessory. In typical implementations adjustment button is designed to simply toggle between color modes e.g. white hot black hot . In other implementations the adjustment button can be used for other adjustment functionality. For example the adjustment button can be configured to adjust user display brightness operating modes aiming reticle dots optical path in relation to a separate optical device user display frame rate display colors negative color mode e.g. white hot black hot display temperature settings wider taller images day no light modes zooming enabling disabling a link to an external smart device and or the like. In some implementations the adjustment button can operate in a single button adjustment manner where the single adjustment button is used to perform all adjustments e.g. through a series of short and longer presses holds etc. . In other implementations the adjustment button can be used in conjunction with the power button as described above and or some other attached adjustment mechanism e.g. connected to a built in USB port not illustrated . In some other implementations the user display can have touch sensitivity to allow adjustment in conjunction with the adjustment button and or the power button . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art the adjustment button can vary in form implementation and design and these variances are not meant to limit the situational awareness accessory in any manner. As such other configurations are considered to be within the scope of this disclosure. For example the adjustment button and related functionality could be configured to be multiple buttons switches e.g. Mylar sliding toggle etc. a touch sensitive surface etc. In other implementations the adjustment functionality can also be integrated into an application executing on a linked e.g. by situational awareness accessory integrated WIFI BLUETOOTH or other technology etc. on the internal control board external smart device e.g. a smart phone tablet computer etc. .

In some implementations the power button and or the adjustment button can be of a different format mechanism. For example the power button can be configured as a different type of power control mechanism consistent with this disclosure e.g. an ON OFF switch an internal motion detecting sensor that automatically powers the situational awareness accessory ON when movement is detected and powers the situational awareness accessory OFF after a period of inactivity etc. . Similarly the illustrated adjustment button could instead be configured as a dial toggle switch or other type of adjustment mechanism consistent with this disclosure. In some alternative implementations the power button and adjustment button can be combined into a single control mechanism. In other implementations the power button and or the adjustment button can be omitted from the situational awareness accessory. In these implementations a touch sensitive display a linked smart device and or external power control adjustment mechanism can be used to make power control settings adjustments for the situational awareness accessory. Additionally in some other implementations more than one power button and or adjustment button or other mechanisms can be configured as part of the situational awareness accessory e.g. each to perform different functions or to work in conjunction with each other .

Battery compartment typically holds a battery to provide power to the situational awareness accessory. In some implementations the battery can be either rechargeable or non rechargeable such as a 123A CR2032 AA AAA etc. installed under a removable battery compartment cap retained to the situational awareness accessory by a battery compartment cap retainer e.g. a loop of wire wrapped around the removable battery compartment cap and secured to the situational awareness accessory by a battery compartment cap retainer anchor e.g. a screw head with a hole to accommodate the attachment of the battery compartment cap retainer . Although not illustrated in battery compartment cap retainer is typically attached to battery compartment cap retainer anchor . In some implementations the removable battery compartment cap can be a pop off screw type etc. In typical implementations the removable battery compartment cap or battery compartment is configured with one or more O rings or other seals to provide a waterproof compartment for a battery.

In some implementations the situational awareness accessory can be connected to an external power supply using one or more connectors not illustrated . For example various connectors can include USB and variants SD microSD memory card slots CF memory card slot FIREWIRE LIGHTNING RCA 3.5 mm audio HDMI component and or other types of connectors consistent with this disclosure. In some implementations connectors can allow the situational awareness accessory to be attached to an external control assembly external power supplies computing equipment such as a smart device memory storage devices and or instruments sensors etc. to either receive record etc. data from the situational awareness accessory or to provide additional data to the situational awareness accessory for configuration display etc.

In implementations enabling a connection to an external power supply the external power supply could either power the situational awareness accessory and or recharge a battery associated with the battery compartment e.g. if a rechargeable battery . The internal control board see power supply management and related discussion can be configured to determine whether a battery is a rechargeable battery and control recharging functionality if appropriate power is supplied. In some implementations the situational awareness accessory can have an indicator e.g. LED audio chirp user display indicator and or other visual audio indicator that a battery is or is about to be discharged. In some implementations the situational awareness accessory can transmit data to a smart device to display a message to a user that a battery is discharged and needs replacement recharging.

User display is used to display visual data received by the visual sensor and processed by the internal control board for display to a user. In some implementations and as described above data can be introduced for display on the user display from received external data e.g. an externally linked smart device and or other device . In typical implementations the user display can be a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display or other similar suitable display. In some implementations the user display can be projected into the illustrated position e.g. by using an LCD and a mirror .

In some implementations the situational awareness accessory user display can have a visually displayed reticle dot and or aiming type indicator reticle . Whether or not a reticle is displayed can be regulated by laws regulations etc. In some implementations the situational awareness accessory user display can be devoid of a reticle in order to be in compliance with laws and or regulations. In implementations with a reticle the reticle types patterns can be pre programmed and or uploaded into the situational awareness accessory using an above described connector WIFI connection etc. Reticles can also be aligned zeroed with a reticle on an optical scope or other optical device to allow for even greater versatility e.g. using the adjustment button functionality or perhaps an application executing on a smart device to move the displayed reticle . For example the situational awareness accessory could be used when no light conditions make aiming with an optical scope difficult. The situational awareness accessory could be used to place the optical scope in the ballpark using the displayed situational awareness accessory reticle and then the user could switch to the optical scope to find and engage a target using the optical scope reticle. Note that the situational awareness accessory can be used in a similar manner to place an optical scope in the ballpark without a displayed reticle.

In some implementations the situational awareness accessory user display frame rate for display image refresh can also be restricted. For example an 8 Hz refresh rate may be exportable to different countries but a 9 Hz refresh rate may not. Note that the exportability legality etc. may also be influenced by the inclusion of the above mentioned reticles in combination with varied refresh rates.

In typical implementations the visual sensor is designed to collect non visible light to allow processing by the internal control board and display on the user display . For example in some implementations the visual sensor can be a LEPTON brand thermal imager visual sensor such as that produced by FLIR Inc. or equivalent type of visual sensor . In some implementations an objective lens not illustrated in see can be used to cover protect and or enhance the functionality of the visual sensor . For example the objective lens can be interchangeable depending on the purposes of the situational awareness accessory e.g. wider FOV higher needed magnification type of visual data desired etc. . For example in some implementations the objective lens can be configured of a material transparent to infrared IR radiation such as in thermal imaging systems. In some implementations the objective lens can be configured of Germanium Ge quartz AMTIER barium fluoride calcium fluoride sodium chloride CLEARTRAN fused silica silicon polyethylene IR transparent ceramics and or any other type of substance transparent to infrared electromagnetic radiation. In some implementations the objective lens can be made of a substance transparent to both optical and IR radiation wavelengths e.g. quartz polyethylene etc. . In some implementations the objective lens and visual sensor associated with the situational awareness accessory can be removed and replaced within the situational awareness accessory housing to change overall functionality without needing a separate situational awareness accessory unit. In some implementations an objective lens can be configured as part of the housing an attachment to the housing or be an integral part of the visual sensor meaning that there may not be a separate objective lens in which case a transparent window can be used to protect the visual sensor in some implementations . In some implementations the visual sensor can be zoomed optically and or digitally to magnify a received image for display on the user display .

In some implementations the housing can be configured with a built in microphone not illustrated e.g. a small opening in the housing to receive audio data to be recorded e.g. on a connected memory card see above regarding connectors and or internal memory transmitted using a wireless or wired connection to a receiving device or monitored e.g. using a plugged in headset see above regarding connectors . In other implementations the configured microphone can also provide an auxiliary connector see above regarding connectors to attach a separate higher sensitivity directional microphone to the situational awareness accessory or to an external support such as a tripod hand held microphone support etc. In some implementations the microphone can be used to issue voice commands to the situational awareness accessory and or a linked smart device to control operation functionality.

Turning to illustrates a right side perspective view of an alternative situational awareness accessory for use with optical devices according to an implementation. As illustrated in the situational awareness accessory is of a simpler design and lacks the more complicated accessory rail mounting system as described above. Instead a rail clamp similar to rail clamp is used with a locking screw to secure the situational awareness accessory to an accessory rail. As illustrated the locking screw has an Allen head type engagement interface but the type of locking screw and interface can vary e.g. Phillips head slot head TORX head thumb screw etc. . Also the removable battery compartment cap battery compartment cap retainer and battery compartment cap retainer anchor are of a different design than that illustrated in . Other design changes consistent with the disclosure are not meant to be limiting to the described subject matter and are considered to be within the scope of the disclosure.

Although not illustrated in some implementations the internal control board can also be configured with connectors providing connection functionality as described above. For example the internal control board could be configured with a USB port connector an audio connector built in microphone microphone jack etc.

At a situational awareness accessory situational awareness accessory is associated with an optical device e.g. a night vision daylight optical scope telescope etc. . Association means coupled with attached to zeroed with respect to etc. for example attached to a firearm or to the top of a scope tube . From method proceeds to .

At the situational awareness accessory is activated using a power control mechanism. This can include powering on the situational awareness accessory using a power button triggering activation from an external control mechanism e.g. an attached control device smart device etc. activation due to an internal motion sensor detecting motion etc. From method proceeds to .

At settings for the situational awareness accessory are adjusted using an adjustment mechanism based on the operating environment. For example color and or temperature settings can be made e.g. black hot white hot temperature gradations etc. a reticle aiming dot can be displayed etc. From method proceeds to .

At the situational awareness accessory is used to view an immediate area to make a situational awareness evaluation e.g. determining whether targets exist to engage identifying targets etc. . Note that additional settings adjustments may be made based on the situational awareness evaluation. From method proceeds to .

At the associated optical device or in some implementations the situational awareness accessory is used to engage any necessary target s . From method proceeds to .

Note that in some implementations a standard red dot type optic aiming mechanism for a firearm can be used in conjunction with the situational awareness accessory to provide an aiming point when looking through the red dot optic. For example the red dot optic could be zeroed with respect to the rifle and then the situational awareness accessory placed in the optical path of the red dot optic. A user of the situational awareness accessory looking through the red dot optic would see a red dot projected against the situational awareness accessory user display e.g. user display providing an aiming point for the user. Note that the use of the re dot optic could also be used when the situational awareness accessory displays an image from various wavelengths of light. For example with the situational awareness accessory in a thermal mode the red dot optic aiming point would be against a thermal image. If the situational awareness accessory were operated in a visible light mode basically passing through a visible light image of what is in front of it to display on the user display the red dot optic aiming point could still be used as an aiming point against the displayed passed through visible light image without having to remove the situational awareness accessory from the firearm.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The terms data processing apparatus computer or electronic computer device or equivalent as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art refer to data processing hardware and encompass all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be or further include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a central processing unit CPU an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . In some implementations the data processing apparatus and or special purpose logic circuitry may be hardware based and or software based. The apparatus can optionally include code that creates an execution environment for computer programs e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. The present disclosure contemplates the use of data processing apparatuses with or without conventional operating systems for example LINUX UNIX WINDOWS MAC OS ANDROID IOS or any other suitable conventional operating system.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. While portions of the programs illustrated in the various figures are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes the programs may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Conversely the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a CPU an FPGA or an ASIC.

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors both or any other kind of CPU. Generally a CPU will receive instructions and data from a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM or both. The essential elements of a computer are a CPU for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a global positioning system GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media transitory or non transitory as appropriate suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM DVD R DVD RAM and DVD ROM disks. The memory may store various objects or data including caches classes frameworks applications backup data jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Additionally the memory may include any other appropriate data such as logs policies security or access data reporting files as well as others. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display LED Light Emitting Diode or plasma monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or trackpad by which the user can provide input to the computer. Input may also be provided to the computer using a touchscreen such as a tablet computer surface with pressure sensitivity a multi touch screen using capacitive or electric sensing or other type of touchscreen. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore a GUI may represent any graphical user interface including but not limited to a web browser a touch screen or a command line interface CLI that processes information and efficiently presents the information results to the user. In general a GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements some or all associated with a web browser such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable by the business suite user. These and other UI elements may be related to or represent the functions of the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of wireline and or wireless digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a radio access network RAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX a wireless local area network WLAN using for example 802.11 a b g n and or 802.20 all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and or other suitable information between network addresses.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In some implementations any or all of the components of the computing system both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface using an application programming interface API and or a service layer. The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computing system. The functionality of the various components of the computing system may be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format. The API and or service layer may be an integral and or a stand alone component in relation to other components of the computing system. Moreover any or all parts of the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations alterations and permutations of the described implementations are within the scope of the following claims as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. While operations are depicted in the drawings or claims in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed some operations may be considered optional to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

Moreover the separation and or integration of various system modules and components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation and or integration in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Accordingly the above description of example implementations does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

