---

title: Enzymatically and hydrolytically stable resins, resin monomers, and resin composites for use in dental preventive and restorative applications
abstract: 

covalently connected to one or more R functional components; the one or more R functional groups selected from a group including one or more hydroxyl methyl (—CHOH—) moieties and/or derivatives thereof, one or more ethoxy (—CH—CH—O—) moieties and/or derivatives thereof, and one or more benzene (CH) and/or derivatives thereof; and ether links that connect the functionalized vinylbenzyl components and the R functional components.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572753&OS=09572753&RS=09572753
owner: ADA Foundation
number: 09572753
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150317
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 953 956 filed Mar. 17 2014 and entitled ENZYMATICALLY AND HYDROLYTICALLY STABLE RESINS RESIN MONOMERS AND RESIN COMPOSITES FOR USE IN DENTAL PREVENTIVE AND RESTORATIVE APPLICATIONS the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.

Some current dental restorative applications may include 1 a bisphenol A glycidyl methacrylate triethylene glycol dimethacrylate Bis GMA TEG DMA see and or a urethane dimethacrylate based polymer to provide a resin network 2 reinforcing filler particles treated with coupling agents containing hydrolyzable ester connecting groups to bind the resin to the particles and 3 bonding agents also containing hydrolyzable ester connecting groups . These systems and their accompanying use instructions may not produce satisfactory durability and esthetics over time. In addition to a short average service life these systems are subject to leaching of unreacted monomers bisphenol A BPA and system degradation products.

Disclosed are enzymatically and hydrolytically stable resins for dental applications and methods for producing such resin monomers that can yield highly cross linked strong and durable polymers. The resins and resin monomers for use in restorative dentistry withstand the challenging conditions of the oral environment however the resins and resin monomers may be useful in additional strategic applications.

In an embodiment a composition of matter includes one or more functionalized vinylbenzyl components of the formula

Also disclosed is a composition of matter consisting of one monomer or a mixture of monomers that include one or more functionalized vinylbenzyloxy components of the formula

Further disclosed are compositions of matter as above made by polymerizing the resin monomers using methods including free radical polymerization cationic polymerization or anionic polymerization.

In various embodiments the compositions of matter may be dental materials that are used as restorative materials laminate veneers denture repairing materials and sealants.

In other embodiments the compositions of matter are dental materials that are used as dental adhesives resin reinforced cements and resin bonding or ceramic restorations.

To overcome problems inherent in current dental composite restorative systems disclosed herein are resin monomers and resin composites that are BPA free that experience low shrinkage and that are not susceptible to enzymatic and hydrolytic degradation. Also disclosed are methods for producing the resin monomers.

In an embodiment the herein disclosed resins replace hydrolyzable methacrylate based resins with BPA free and hydrolytically stable vinylbenzyl ether based resins. As an example three co polymerizable compounds erythritol divinylbenzyl ether E DVBE triethyleneglycol divinylbenzyl ether TEG DVBE and the reaction products of vinylbenzyl glycidyl ether with N tolylglycine salts NTG VBGE see for examples of their structures were synthesized purified and evaluated as substitutes for currently used Bis GMA TEG DMA and NTG GMA Glycine N 2 hydroxy 3 2 methyl 1 oxo 2 propenyl oxypropyl N 4 methylphenyl monosodium salt CAS No. 133736 31 9 respectively. Dental composite restorative systems prepared with the herein disclosed resins resin composites and accompanying adhesives will have better durability compared with currently available Bis GMA TEG DMA based systems.

1 Include easy handling resin monomers. The E DVBE and TEG DVBE have two terminal double bonds which can each readily copolymerize and can be used in the polymeric phase resin network. The TEG DVBE is used to adjust and control the viscosity of the monomers to obtain good handling properties of dental composite restorative systems. The NTG VBGE incorporated in the form of the sodium magnesium or other salt is the active ingredient in dentin and enamel bonding serving as a surface active comonomer.

2 Eliminate all BPA moieties. Many publications allege the dangers of BPA leaching from dental composites and sealants these could decrease patients willingness to obtain necessary dental care.

3 Eliminate potentially hydrolysable ester groups contained in Bis GMA TEG DMA and NTG GMA see in either the cross linking monomers of the composite or in its accompanying adhesive bonding formulation. The herein disclosed materials have ether groups that are not susceptible to salivary or other esterases and thereby are more resistant to degradation in the oral cavity.

4 Improve physical and chemical properties that cannot be achieved with current resins. For example E DVBE is an ambiphilic compound with two hydrophobic vinylbenzyl groups at its ends and a flexible hydrophilic center two hydroxyl groups from meso erythritol . The vicinal hydroxyl groups can more easily form clusters of hydrogen bonds with the readily accessible hydroxyl groups of other such monomers. Modeling suggests that such clustering increases monomer density relative to its polymer which should contribute to reduced polymerization shrinkage.

The example resin monomers illustrated in were synthesized to enable simultaneous side by side comparative testing of all restorative systems under the same environments and conditions.

The resin monomers with two vinylbenzyl groups ether n 2 replace the Bis GMA TEG DMA based dimethacrylate resins. As an example triethyleneglycol divinylbenzyl ether TEG DVBE and erythritol divinylbenzyl ether E DVBE were synthesized and purified to replace the currently used Bis GMA and TEG DMA.

The subject matter of define various compositions of matter that may be used for example in dental applications. For example a composition may include one or more functionalized vinylbenzyl components of the formula shown in covalently connected to one or more R functional components. The one or more R functional may be groups selected from a group consisting of one or more hydroxyl methyl CHOH moieties and or derivatives thereof one or more ethoxy CH CH O moieties and or derivatives thereof and one or more benzene C6H6 and or derivatives thereof and ether links that connect the functionalized vinylbenzyl components and the R functional components.

For these compositions of matter the functionalized vinylbenzyloxy s and the R components s may be linked through one or more moieties chosen from a group consisting of alkyl CH CHCH CH C i propyl and CH alkoxy OCH CHCHO OCH and OCH C CN hydroxyl substituted alkyl CHOH and halide substituted alkyl C CCl C CBr and C CF .

In in an embodiment the symbol X may refer to a hydrogen atom. In some embodiments one or more hydrogen atoms on the vinylbenzyl components may be replaced with functional moieties to accelerate or slow down the rate of polymerization . The functional moieties may be one or more compounds or elements chosen from a group consisting of CH CH OCH CF F Cl Br CN CH CH CH OCH OCH and OCH.

In other embodiments the R functional components may be one or multiple ethoxy CH CH O moieties and their derivatives. In these other embodiments the ether links may be formed through reaction of halide s and alcohol s in the presence of a strong base preferably sodium hydride.

In still other embodiments the R functional components contain hydroxyl methyl CHOH moieties and the ether links are formed through reactions of the functionalized vinylbenzyl halides and the primary hydroxyl moieties of one of the compounds of the group consisting of glycerol erythritol xylitol mannitol and sorbitol in the presence of a strong base preferably sodium hydride and wherein the secondary hydroxyl group s are protected by protection groups while the ether links are formed and the protection groups are removed after the is ether links are formed.

In yet other embodiments the R functional components contain hydroxyl methyl CHOH moieties and the ether links are formed through reactions of the functionalized vinylbenzyl halides and hydroxyl moieties of one of the compounds of the group consisting of glycerol erythritol xylitol mannitol and sorbitol in the presence of a strong base preferably sodium hydride wherein the mole amount s of functionalized vinylbenzyl halides is adjusted to be within a range of the mole amount of primary hydroxyls and the mole amount of primary hydroxyls plus secondary hydroxyl moieties CHOH .

In still other embodiments the R functional components are selected from the group consisting of N 2 hydroxypropyl N p styryl glycine N 2 hydroxypropyl N phenyl glycine N 2 hydroxypropyl N p tolyl glycine N 2 hydroxypropyl N 3 5 dimethylphenyl glycine and N 2 hydroxypropyl N vinylbenzyl glycine wherein each may be acidic anionic or preferably as a salt of one or more members of the group consisting of sodium magnesium calcium and strontium. In these embodiments an ether link connects each of the functionalized vinylbenzyl groups with each of these R functional groups.

In some embodiments of the compositions of matter of the ether link preferably is formed from a reaction of funtionalized vinylbenzyl glycidyl ether with members of the group consisting of N H p styryl glycine N H phenyl glycine N H p tolyl glycine N H 3 5 dimethylphenyl glycine and N H vinylbenzyl glycine. Each may be anionic or a salt of one or more members of the group consisting of sodium magnesium calcium and strontium. An ether link connects each of the functionalized vinylbenzyl groups with each of these R functional moieties.

In still further embodiments a composition of matter may consist of one monomer or a mixture of monomers defined in .

In the above described compositions of matter the resin monomer s may be used with cyanoacrylate based methacrylate based or epoxy based monomers or polymers.

The sodium salt of N p tolyl glycine 0.05256 mol was mixed with 100 g of distilled water. The pH of the mixture was measured and adjusted to about 9 by adding a 1N aqueous NaOH solution drop wise. The mixture turned into a clear solution. To this stirred solution a solution containing vinylbenzyl glycidyl ether 0.05256 mol and 0.0020 g of 2 4 6 tri tert butylphenol as a stabilizer to prevent premature polymerization in 100 mL methanol was added drop wise. A vacuum was not used in this synthesis because the 2 4 6 tri tert butylphenol requires the oxygen in air to be effective. Precipitation of the sodium salt of NTG VBE occurred on evaporation of methanol and some of the water. The sodium salt of NTG VBE was then collected by suction filtration and recrystallized using acetone. The chemical structure was characterized by HNMR and CNMR. H NMR 270 MHz DMSO d6 7.67 d 2H 7.23 d 2H 6.97 d 2H 6.72 d 1H 6.63 d 2H 5.76 d 1H 5.37 s 1H 5.25 s 1H 4.63 s 2H 4.29 s 2H 3.38 3.75 m 5H 2.32 s 3H C NMR 270 MHz DMSO d6 147.6 137.0 136.7 130.7 129.9 129.6 128.5 114.3 112.8 75.5 73.3 66.5 63.3 62.1 21.3

Tryethylene glycol 8.02 mL 9.01 g 60 mmol in DMF 30 mL was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of NaH 95 3.79 g 150 mmol in DMF 120 mL at 0 4 C. under Aratmosphere over 30 minutes. After the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature 4 Vinylbenzyl chloride 90 20.3 mL 22.0 g 120 mmol in DMF 50 mL was added dropwise over 30 minutes and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched by slow addition of a saturated NHCl aqueous solution 50 mL at room temperature. The resulting solution was diluted with distilled water 600 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined ethyl acetate layers were washed with distilled water 2 200 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduce pressure to give crude product as a dark orange oil. Flash column chromatography silica 30 ethyl acetate in hexane afforded pure product as a pale yellow oil 27.5 g 60 . The chemical structure was characterized by HNMR and CNMR. H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 7.43 d J 8.1 Hz 4H 7.29 d J 8.1 Hz 4H 6.72 dd J 17.8 11.0 Hz 2H 5.81 d J 17.8 2H 5.24 d J 11.0 Hz 2H 4.47 s 4H 3.55 m 12H C NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 138.7 136.9 136.7 128.2 126.5 114.5 72.2 70.4 70.3 69.6.

1 4 Bis 2 hydroxyhexafluoro isopropyl benzene 10 g 24.4 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of KCO 10.1 g 73.2 mmol in DMF 70 mL under Aratmosphere. After reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. 4 Vinylbenzyl chloride 90 7.99 mL 8.66 g 51.2 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added dropwise over 30 minutes and the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and subsequently diluted with diethyl ether 500 mL . The resulting mixture was washed with hydrochloric acid solution 1 M 3 250 mL followed by washing with distilled water 2 250 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduce pressure to give crude product as a yellow solid. The crude product was recrystallized in Hexanes to afford pure product as a white solid 13.5 g 86 . The chemical structure was characterized by HNMR and CNMR. H NMR 270 MHz DMSO d6 7.90 s 4H 7.53 d J 8.2 Hz 4H 7.43 d J 8.2 Hz 4H 6.75 dd J 17.6 10.9 Hz 2H 5.87 d J 17.6 2H 5.28 d J 10.9 Hz 2H 4.64 s 4H C NMR 270 MHz DMSO d6 137.8 136.5 135.7 130.1 129.5 128.7 126.9 115.3 68.2.

 2 3 O Isopropylidene D threitol 5 g 30.8 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of NaH 95 1.95 g 77.1 mmol in DMF 60 mL at 0 4 C. under Aratmosphere over 30 min. After the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature 4 Vinylbenzyl chloride 90 9.60 mL 10.4 g 61.2 mmol in DMF 50 mL was added dropwise over 30 min and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched by slow addition of a saturated NHCl aqueous solution 20 mL at room temperature. The resulting solution was diluted with distilled water 300 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined ethyl acetate layers were washed with distilled water 2 200 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous potassium carbonate and the solvent was removed under reduce pressure to give crude product as a dark orange oil.

 4R 5R 2 2 dimethyl 4 5 bis 4 vinylbenzyl oxy methyl 1 3 dioxolane crude Example 4 was added to a stirred suspension of Dowex 50W2X 10 g in MeOH 200 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then stirred and refluxed at 70 C. for 18 hours. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting mixture was diluted with distilled water and extracted with CHCl 3 150 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with distilled water 3 200 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give a crude product as a yellow solid.

These resins may be employed in composites and the corresponding adhesives with specific functions as described above. In various non limiting embodiments different combinations of the resin monomers may be incorporated into and polymerized to provide resin components of a dental composite restorative system such as that illustrated in . The resins have enzymatically and hydrolytically stable ether connections instead of hydrolyzable ester groups that attach the polymerizable vinylbenzyl groups of monomers of both the composite and its adhesive bonding components.

An example instruction for the herein disclosed dental composite restorative systems calls for an etching washing and removal of a smear layer on tooth surfaces to be treated. The smear layer represents a structurally weak layer that contains not only disrupted and fragmented tooth structures but also extrinsic salivary pellicle components of biofilms and cariogenic microorganisms. It also plugs dentinal tubular openings thereby preventing penetration of the adhesion promoting monomeric components.

The vinylbenzyl ether groups readily homopolymerize and copolymerize with methacrylate groups and other polymerizable groups including vinyl groups. The polymerization of the vinylbenzyl compounds may be initiated using initiators that are currently used in the methacrylate systems for example photo initiators for wavelength 400 540 nm or dual cure initiators for both light and chemical initiation. An example of photo initiator is the mixture of camphorquinone CQ and ethyl 4 N N dimethylaminobenzoate 4E at concentrations of 0.2 wt and 0.8 wt respectively of the polymer matrix. The compounds also are polymerizable using cationic and anionic polymerization mechanisms.

The herein disclosed resin composites may be used with or without fillers. The composite s reinforcing filler particles have shapes sizes and surface treatments that allow for a maximum filler resin ratio by surface treatment with different coupling agents attached by covalent bonds e.g. a combination of three types of silanes including vinylbenzyltrimethoxy silane containing polymerizable vinyl groups to provide covalent bonding and cross linking with the monomeric phase octyltrimethoxy silane for improved rheological properties and vinylbenzyldimethylammoniumpropyltrimethoxy silane chloride to minimize clustering or bridging and also contribute to interphase cross linking.

The herein disclosed resins resin monomers and resin composites were subjected to a number of performance tests and evaluations as enumerated herein.

The degree of vinyl conversion for the resins in sample disks after photopolymerization was determined using FTIR reflectance microspectroscopy FTIR RM . The Nicolet Continu m FT IR microscope Thermo Scientific Madison Wis. operated in reflectance mode and interfaced with a Nicolet 6700 FT IR spectrophotometer was equipped with two liquid nitrogen cooled mercury cadmium telluride detectors MCT A 11 700 650 cmand MCT B 11 700 400 cm a video camera and a computer controlled x y translation stage. Spectra were collected with 64 scans from 650 cmto 4000 cmat 8 cmspectral resolution with a beam spot size of 90 m 90 m. Ten spectra each of three disks 8 mm in diameter and 1 mm in thickness of every combination of resins were obtained from the flat top and bottom of the disks. Each spot was manually focused before data collection. The reflectance spectra were proportioned against a background of a gold coated slide and transformed to absorbance spectra using the Kramers Kronig transform algorithm for dispersion correction which converts the reflectance spectra to absorbance like spectra. The degree of vinyl conversion DC was calculated as the reduction in the vinyl peak 1634 cm height using the phenyl absorbance peak 1610 cm as an internal standard. The peak heights were determined using the ISys software Spectral Dimensions Olney Md. USA . The DC was the average of 30 spectra of three disks of each sample.

Cholesterol ester activity may be tested by the degradation of four nitrophenyl isomers o nitrophenylacetate o NPA p nitrophenylacetate p NPA o nitrophenylbutyrate o NPB and p nitrophenylbutyrate p NPB by measuring changes in OD at a wavelength of 410 nm and defining the CE activity as the change of absorbance of 0.01 OD per minute at 410 nm at pH 7.0 and 25 C.

In block the esterase activity of model enzymes is measured and in block target molecules are determined for HPLC measurement.

Referring to which illustrates degradation products produced by the interaction of current resin monomers specifically Bis GMA and TEG DMA and esterase enzymes methacrylic acid MA and 2 2 Bis 4 2 3 hydroxypropoxy phenyl propane bis HPPP are seen as possible candidates target molecules for the HPLC analysis. Bis HPPP is an organic compound structurally related to bisphenol A.

Returning to the method continues in block with HPLC calibrations. In block the monomers and polymers are prepared and in block the monomers and polymers are incubated with the model enzymes. Finally in block the degradation of current and the herein disclosed resins are compared.

The inventors of the herein disclosed resin monomers TEG DVBE performed the method to compare degradation of TEG DVBE and traditional resin monomers Bis GMA and TEG DMA caused by the presence of esterase enzymes. The degradation compounds were detected and quantified with HPLC. After 24 hours incubation with the enzymes no degradation was found in new resin monomers. Both Bis GMA and TEG DMA were decomposed dramatically by enzymes. Also evaluated was the resistance of new polymers made of TEG DVBE and traditional polymers made of a mixture of Bis GMA and TEG DMA in 1 1 mass ratio to esterase enzymes. After 16 days challenge with the enzymes no degradation was found in new polymers. The traditional polymers showed significant degradation by the enzymes. The test materials and methods are described below. Enzyme preparation began with cholesterol esterase derived from bacteria CE C9281 Sigma Saint Louis Mo. USA and Pseudocholinesterase from horse serum PCE C4290 Sigma Saint Louis Mo. USA which were reconstituted at desired concentrations in phosphate buffered saline D PBS 14190 144 Gibco Grant Island N.Y. USA and sterile filtered using a 0.22 m filter. The prepared enzyme solutions used for replenishing enzyme activity in the biodegradation experiments were stored at 20 C. until needed.

Enzyme activity assay i.e. CE activity was determined by para nitrophenyl acetate p NPA hydrolysis assay. P NPA substrate N8130 Sigma Saint Louis Mo. USA was prepared by dissolving p NPA in methanol 100 mM p NPA and diluting with a 100 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5.0 to give a final p NPA concentration of 1 mM. In a typical CE activity assay 50 L p NPA solution 50 L of CE solution 1 unit mL and 100 L sodium phosphate buffer 50 mM pH 8.8 were added to a 96 well plate to give a final pH of 7.0 and the change of absorbance over time was measured at 410 nm at 25 C. using a SpectraMax Microplate reader Molecular Devices Sunnyvale Calif. USA . One unit of CE activity is defined as a change of absorbance of 0.01 per minute. CE enzyme inhibition was assessed with the addition of 4 L of phenylmethanesulfonyifluoride PMSF 50 mM in anhydrous ethanol . PCE 1 unit mL activity was determined with acetylcholinesterase activity assay kit MAK119 Sigma Saint Louis Mo. USA by measuring a change in absorbance at 412 nm using butylthiocholine BTC as a substrate. One unit of PCE activity was defined as the formation of 1.0 mol of butyrate released per 1 mL of enzyme per minute at pH 7.5 and 25 C.

For polymer preparation the composition of conventional resin was 50 50 wt Bis GMA TEG DMA Esstech Essington Pa. USA with 0.2 wt Camphorquinone CQ 124893 Aldrich Saint Louis Mo. USA and 0.8 wt ethyl 4 diamethylamino benzoate DMAEMA E24905 Aldrich Saint Louis Mo. USA as the photoinitiator system. TEG DVBE was mixed with 1 wt IIRGACURE 819 1 819 and 1 wt bis 4 tert butylphenyl iodonium hexafluorophosphate DPI as a photoinitiation system. Photoinitiation systems for each composition were selected to achieve resins with high degree of conversion. Monomer samples were filled into a 3 mm radius 1 mm height cylindrical Teflon mold and between two Mylar films at the top and the bottom to prevent oxygen inhibition of the surface layer. Additionally glass slides were used in order to flatten the surface. The samples were photocured with a Triad 2000 visible light curing unit Dentsply Trubyte York Pa. USA for 1 minute on each side. The hardened pellets with a 75 mm2 surface area were post cured overnight in a vacuum oven at 60 C. then incubated in D PBS at 37 C. with stirring for 24 hours to remove any unreacted monomers. Pellets were then rinsed with distilled water and vacuum dried until they reach a constant mass.

For monomer degradation Bis GMA TEG DMA and TEG DVBE monomers were each dissolved in DMSO 20 mM monomer and diluted in D PBS to give a monomer concentration of 0.4 mM. Monomer solutions 750 L were incubated with CE or PCE 750 L 2 units mL for 24 hours at 37 C. n 3 . PMSF at 1.0 mM and 0.5 mM were used as negative controls for CE and PCE respectively. At 1 8 and 24 hours of incubation 400 L of media was removed from each sample and the enzyme activity was inhibited with the addition of 266 L methanol. Samples were centrifuged at 16000 rcf for 30 minutes to eliminate large particles and stored at 4 C. until analysis with HPLC.

For polymer degradation cured polymer pellets were incubated with 500 L 1 unit mL CE or PCE with media volume to polymer resin surface area ratio of 6.6 ul per mm for up to 16 days at 37 C. n 3 . PMSF at 1.0 mM and 0.5 mM were used as negative controls for CE and PCE respectively. The incubation media was replaced every 48 hrs to maintain nominal enzyme activity. Each pooled media was quenched with the addition of 400 L methanol. The media from 2 8 and 16 days of incubation periods were pooled for HPLC analysis. Pooled were centrifuged at 16000 rcf for 30 minutes and stored at 4 C. until analysis with HPLC. Samples were also centrifuged for 30 minutes to eliminate large particles and stored at 4 C. until analysis with HPLC.

For HPLC analysis an Agilent 1290 Infinity Binary HPLC System was used for the chromatographic separation and quantification of the degradation products. Specifically the disappearance of TEG DMA Bis GMA and TEG DVBE monomers as well as the appearance of methacrylic acid MA 155721 Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA derived from TEG DMA and Bis GMA and bishydroxy propoxy phenyl propane bis HPPP 15137 Fluka Saint Louis Mo. USA from Bis GMA as degradation products where of interest. A Zorbex Extend 5 m C18 4.6 250 mm column 770450 902 Agilent Technology Santa Clara Calif. USA was used for the separation of products. The mobile phase consisted of 2 mM buffer solution of HPLC grade ammonium acetate AX1222 EMD Chemicals Inc. Billerica Mass. USA with pH adjusted to 3.0 with 6.0 N hydrochloric acid A144 500 Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. USA and HPL grade methanol MX0475 EMD Chemicals Inc. Billerica Mass. USA . The separation was achieved with 50 to 100 methanol in ammonium acetate buffer gradient for 30 minutes in order to provide comparison with reported tests results for current monomers. Degradation products were detected by absorbance at 215 nm using a 1290 Infinity variable wavelength UV detector. Calibration curves were created by linear correlation of peak area to known concentrations of the analytes in methanol and the amount of products formed from both monomer and polymer degradation were analyzed.

The above description refers to resins resin composites and adhesives for use in a dental composite restorative system. However these materials in various combinations may be used in other systems where ester based degradation and BPA free conditions are a concern. For example the materials may be used in certain food packing applications and in prosthetic devices.

