---

title: Methods for dry etching semiconductor devices
abstract: The present invention provides methods for etching semiconductor devices, such aluminum nitride resonators. The methods herein allow for devices having improved etch profiles, such that nearly vertical sidewalls can be obtained. In some examples, the method employs a dry etch step with a primary etchant gas that omits BCl, a common additive.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09484216&OS=09484216&RS=09484216
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09484216
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150602
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention provides methods for etching semiconductor materials and devices composed of such materials. In particular the methods rely on dry etching techniques e.g. plasma etching that employs one or more etchant gases.

Devices formed from semiconductor materials can possess unique electromechanical properties imparted by the material. However device performance can be negatively affected by techniques employed to etch the semiconductor material. For instance some wet chemistry techniques provide isotropic etching in which a high aspect ratio structure is difficult to attain. Dry chemistry techniques such as those employing plasma generally provide anisotropic etching in which etching occurs more favorably in one dimension. Thus high aspect ratio structures can be more readily achieved using dry chemistry techniques. Yet additional processes are required as some dry chemistry techniques can be optimized to provide smooth etched surfaces but at a trade off for etch rates sidewall angles etc.

III V semiconductor materials have numerous device applications. When etching III V materials containing aluminum it is generally believed that BClis required in order to remove and etch any aluminum oxides present in the material see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 624 529 . Thus most processes require BClthroughout the entire etching process at particularly favorable percentages see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 196 017 . While such BCl containing processes can provide smooth sidewalls vertical sidewalls i.e. approaching an angle of 90 are still difficult to attain. In some III V devices such as resonators vertical sidewalls improve quality factors and reduce detrimental spurious modes. Thus there is a need for additional processes to provide vertical sidewalls in semiconductor devices.

The present invention relates to dry etching processes to provide a vertical sidewall. For instance the methods herein can be employed to achieve vertical sidewalls in a III V film e.g. an aluminum nitride AlN film which in turn can be used to fabricate radiofrequency RF MEMS microresonators. In particular AlN based microresonators can be designed to possess a resonant frequency ranging from 1 MHz to 3 GHz which have utility in various tools such as communication devices. Forming AlN resonators with vertical sidewalls can reduce spurious modes and improve the quality factor of the resonator both of which are key figures of merit for resonators.

In some embodiments the integrated process includes an optimized microfabrication process and an optimized etching process. In some embodiments the integrated process includes employing a hard mask e.g. a silicon dioxide hard mask to pattern the semiconductor material etching the hard mask by employing a plasma etch process that eliminates transfer of sidewall slope from the hard mask to the semiconductor etching the semiconductor by avoiding passivating agents such as by minimizing use of nitrogen and boron trichloride during the main etch step and removing the hard mask by using an anisotropic plasma etch process that etches the mask but does not etch the semiconductor material thereby minimizing use of isotropic wet chemical etch conditions.

Accordingly in one aspect the invention features a method for etching a semiconductor the method including placing a patterned semiconductor into a plasma reactor where the patterned semiconductor includes a semiconductor material and a hard mask where the hard mask defines at least one trench pattern and etching an exposed semiconductor material located in proximity to the trench pattern by introducing a primary etchant gas into the plasma reactor for a primary etching period e.g. thereby providing an etched semiconductor .

In some embodiments the hard mask is disposed directly or indirectly on a planar surface of the semiconductor material. In other embodiments at least one trench pattern of the hard mask was etched by employing a plasma etch process e.g. a fluorine based chemistry including one or more fluorocarbon gases as described herein .

In some embodiments the primary etchant gas includes Cland or does not include BCl. In some embodiments the primary etchant gas consists essentially of Cl. In other embodiments the primary etchant gas does not include Ar and or N. In yet other embodiments the primary etchant gas consists essentially of Cland one or more non chlorine containing gases.

In further embodiments the method includes e.g. before the etching step introducing a first supplementary gas into the plasma reactor for a first supplemental period. In particular embodiments the first supplementary gas includes BCl. In other embodiments a duration of the first supplemental period is less than a duration of the primary etching period. In some embodiments the duration of the first supplemental period is of from about 5 seconds to about 60 seconds and where the duration of the primary etching period is of from about 90 seconds to about 420 seconds.

In further embodiments the method includes e.g. after an introducing step introducing a second supplementary gas into the plasma reactor for a second supplemental period. In particular embodiments the second supplementary gas includes BCl. In other embodiments a duration of the second supplemental period is less than a duration of the primary etching period. In some embodiments the duration of the second supplemental period is of from about 5 seconds to about 60 seconds and where the duration of the primary etching period is of from about 90 seconds to about 420 seconds.

In further embodiments the method includes e.g. after the etching step removing the hard mask by employing a highly selective anisotropic oxide etch e.g. optionally including a fluorine based chemistry . In some embodiments the method includes e.g. after the removing step releasing a portion of the etched semiconductor e.g. thereby providing a released resonator portion . In yet other embodiments the releasing step includes etching a release layer of a semiconductor stack or a patterned semiconductor.

In another aspect the invention features a method for etching a semiconductor the method including placing a patterned semiconductor into a plasma reactor where the patterned semiconductor includes a semiconductor material and a hard mask where the hard mask defines at least one trench pattern introducing a first supplementary gas into the plasma reactor for a first supplemental period e.g. where the first supplementary gas includes BCl etching an exposed semiconductor material located in proximity to the trench pattern by introducing a primary etchant gas into the plasma reactor for a primary etching period e.g. where the primary etchant gas includes Cland or does not include BCl and introducing a second supplementary gas into the plasma reactor for a second supplemental period e.g. where the second supplementary gas includes BCl . In some embodiments the hard mask is disposed directly or indirectly on a planar surface of the semiconductor material.

In some embodiments the method further includes removing the hard mask by employing a highly selective anisotropic oxide etch e.g. thereby providing an etched semiconductor . In other embodiments a duration of each of the first and the second supplemental periods is independently less than a duration of the primary etching period.

In yet another aspect the invention features a method for fabricating a semiconductor resonator the method including placing a patterned semiconductor into a plasma reactor where the patterned semiconductor includes a piezoelectric material and a hard mask where the hard mask defines at least one trench pattern that provides a first dimension of a resonator portion introducing a first supplementary gas into the plasma reactor for a first supplemental period e.g. where the first supplementary gas includes BCl and etching an exposed semiconductor material located in proximity to the trench pattern by introducing a primary etchant gas into the plasma reactor for a primary etching period e.g. where the primary etchant gas includes Cland or does not include BCl thereby defining at least one dimension of the resonator portion. In some embodiments the hard mask is disposed directly or indirectly on a planar surface of the semiconductor material.

In some embodiments the method further includes introducing a second supplementary gas into the plasma reactor for a second supplemental period e.g. where the second supplementary gas includes BCl removing the hard mask by employing a highly selective anisotropic oxide etch and releasing a portion of the etched semiconductor e.g. thereby defining a second dimension of the resonator portion and providing the semiconductor resonator . In some embodiments a duration of each of the first and the second supplemental periods is independently less than a duration of the primary etching period.

In any embodiment herein the semiconductor material includes a piezoelectric material an aluminum nitride a III V material lithium niobate lithium tantalate as well as doped forms thereof multilayered forms thereof or stacked forms of any of these.

In any embodiment herein the patterned semiconductor includes a semiconductor stack. In some embodiments the semiconductor stack includes a piezoelectric layer e.g. including a piezoelectric material an aluminum nitride a III V material lithium niobate lithium tantalate as well as doped forms or multilayered forms thereof and or a bottom electrode layer disposed beneath the piezoelectric layer and or an insulator layer disposed between the bottom electrode layer and a substrate. In particular embodiments the stack or the substrate further includes a release layer e.g. an amorphous layer or an ion damaged region .

In any embodiment herein the plasma reactor is an inductively coupled plasma reactor ICP an electron cyclotron resonance ECR plasma a helicon plasma or a surface wave plasma. In particular embodiments the inductively coupled plasma reactor is operated at a source power of from about 500 W to about 2000 W and at a bias of from about 40 W to about 200 W. In some embodiments the plasma reactor is maintained at a low operating pressure less than about 25 mTorr. In other embodiments the plasma reactor is maintained at a low operating pressure of from about 1 mTorr to about 50 mTorr e.g. 1 mTorr to 10 mTorr 1 mTorr to 25 mTorr 1 mTorr to 40 mTorr 5 mTorr to 10 mTorr 5 mTorr to 25 mTorr 5 mTorr to 40 mTorr 5 mTorr to 50 mTorr 10 mTorr to 25 mTorr 10 mTorr to 40 mTorr 10 mTorr to 50 mTorr 15 mTorr to 25 mTorr 15 mTorr to 40 mTorr 15 mTorr to 50 mTorr 20 mTorr to 25 mTorr 20 mTorr to 40 mTorr or 20 mTorr to 50 mTorr .

In any embodiment herein a vertical sidewall of the etched semiconductor has a sidewall angle greater than about 80 e.g. of from about 80 to about 100 such as from 80 to about 90 80 to about 95 85 to about 90 85 to about 95 85 to about 100 88 to about 90 88 to about 95 88 to about 100 90 to about 95 90 to about 100 92 to about 95 92 to about 100 or 95 to about 100 .

In any embodiment herein the duration of the primary etching period is of from about 30 seconds to about 600 seconds e.g. 30 seconds to 60 seconds 30 seconds to 90 seconds 30 seconds to 100 seconds 30 seconds to 120 seconds 30 seconds to 180 seconds 30 seconds to 210 seconds 30 seconds to 240 seconds 30 seconds to 270 seconds 30 seconds to 300 seconds 30 seconds to 360 seconds 30 seconds to 420 seconds 30 seconds to 480 seconds 30 seconds to 540 seconds 60 seconds to 90 seconds 60 seconds to 100 seconds 60 seconds to 120 seconds 60 seconds to 180 seconds 60 seconds to 210 seconds 60 seconds to 240 seconds 60 seconds to 270 seconds 60 seconds to 300 seconds 60 seconds to 360 seconds 60 seconds to 420 seconds 60 seconds to 480 seconds 60 seconds to 540 seconds 60 seconds to 600 seconds 90 seconds to 100 seconds 90 seconds to 120 seconds 90 seconds to 180 seconds 90 seconds to 210 seconds 90 seconds to 240 seconds 90 seconds to 270 seconds 90 seconds to 300 seconds 90 seconds to 360 seconds 90 seconds to 420 seconds 90 seconds to 480 seconds 90 seconds to 540 seconds or 90 seconds to 600 seconds .

In any embodiment herein the duration of the first and or second supplemental period is of from about 5 seconds to about 60 seconds e.g. 5 seconds to 10 seconds 5 seconds to 15 seconds 5 seconds to 30 seconds 5 seconds to 45 seconds 10 seconds to 15 seconds 10 seconds to 30 seconds 10 seconds to 45 seconds 10 seconds to 60 seconds 20 seconds to 30 seconds 20 seconds to 45 seconds 20 seconds to 60 seconds 30 seconds to 45 seconds 30 seconds to 60 seconds 40 seconds to 45 seconds 40 seconds to 60 seconds or 45 seconds to 60 seconds and or the duration of the primary etching period is of from about 90 seconds to about 420 seconds e.g. 90 seconds to 100 seconds 90 seconds to 120 seconds 90 seconds to 180 seconds 90 seconds to 210 seconds 90 seconds to 240 seconds 90 seconds to 270 seconds 90 seconds to 300 seconds 90 seconds to 360 seconds 100 seconds to 120 seconds 100 seconds to 180 seconds 100 seconds to 210 seconds 100 seconds to 240 seconds 100 seconds to 270 seconds 100 seconds to 300 seconds 100 seconds to 360 seconds 100 seconds to 420 seconds 120 seconds to 180 seconds 120 seconds to 210 seconds 120 seconds to 240 seconds 120 seconds to 270 seconds 120 seconds to 300 seconds 120 seconds to 360 seconds 120 seconds to 420 seconds 180 seconds to 210 seconds 180 seconds to 240 seconds 180 seconds to 270 seconds 180 seconds to 300 seconds 180 seconds to 360 seconds 180 seconds to 420 seconds 210 seconds to 240 seconds 210 seconds to 270 seconds 210 seconds to 300 seconds 210 seconds to 360 seconds 210 seconds to 420 seconds 240 seconds to 270 seconds 240 seconds to 300 seconds 240 seconds to 360 seconds 240 seconds to 420 seconds 270 seconds to 300 seconds 270 seconds to 360 seconds 270 seconds to 420 seconds 300 seconds to 360 seconds 300 seconds to 420 seconds or 360 seconds to 420 seconds 

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

By micro is meant having at least one dimension that is less than 1 mm. For instance a microstructure e.g. any structure described herein can have a length width height cross sectional dimension circumference radius e.g. external or internal radius or diameter that is less than 1 mm.

By nano is meant having at least one dimension that is less than 1 m. For instance a nanostructure e.g. any structure described herein can have a length width height cross sectional dimension circumference radius e.g. external or internal radius or diameter that is less than 1 m.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention provides an improved method for etching a semiconductor e.g. including a semiconductor material a III V material a piezoelectric material or any other described herein . In particular the methods herein combine microfabrication processes and etching processes that result in vertical sidewalls that are perpendicular to a major plane of the semiconductor film or layer.

The semiconductor material can be any useful material such as any described herein. In certain embodiments the material is any that can be etched by chlorine e.g. a III V material an aluminum containing material a silicon containing material a niobate material or a tantalate material . In other embodiments the semiconductor material is provided as a semiconductor stack including a layer of the semiconductor material as well as any other useful materials e.g. a substrate an insulator layer one or more electrode layers etc. .

As seen in the exemplary method for etching a semiconductor includes any useful step including patterning a hard mask on a planar surface of a semiconductor material etching the semiconductor material as well as optionally etching the electrodes the insulator layer and or the substrate or portions thereof removing the hard mask and releasing a portion of the semiconductor. These steps are detailed below.

The patterning step includes depositing a material to form a hard mask on a planar surface of the semiconductor material thereby providing a patterned semiconductor. The material can be deposited either directly or indirectly on a portion of the planar surface. For instance if an electrode layer is disposed on a portion of the top surface of the semiconductor material then a hard mask is indirectly deposited on the semiconductor surface due to the interleaving electrode layer. The hard mask can include any useful pattern such as a trench pattern that defines at least one dimension e.g. along the x and or y axis of the desired trench to be formed in the semiconductor.

In some embodiments the patterning step includes use of a silicon dioxide hard mask instead of the industry standard photoresist mask. The challenging characteristic of the photoresist mask is that photoresist erodes during the etch process thereby contributing carbon to the plasma chemistry. This carbon can contribute to a sidewall polymer that passivates the sidewall of the semiconductor as it is etched. In contrast a silicon dioxide hard mask does not contain carbon so it does not contribute to the undesirable sidewall polymer.

In yet other embodiments the hard mask is formed from a plasma etch process that provides vertical sidewalls for the patterns etched into the hard mask. At times sloping sidewalls of the mask if present can contribute to sloping non vertical sidewalls for the etched semiconductor. To reduce this detrimental contribution by the hard mask we developed a plasma etch process to pattern the hard mask with trench patterns having vertical sidewalls thereby eliminating the possibility of transferring sidewall slope from the hard mask to the semiconductor material to be etched. In one non limiting embodiment the hard mask is etched by using a halogen based chemistry e.g. employing a halogen gas such as a gas including fluorine chlorine or bromine such as CX where each X is independently fluorine chlorine or bromine .

In another non limiting embodiment the hard mask is etched e.g. to form a pattern by using a fluorine based chemistry. Fluorocarbon gas as the source of fluorine is one exemplary approach but many sources of fluorine can be employed. Exemplary fluorocarbon gases include a perfluorocarbon gas e.g. CFgases where x is an integer of 1 or more and y is an integer of 4 or more such as CF CF CF CF CF etc. including all isomers thereof a fluorohydrocarbon gas e.g. e.g. CHFgases where x is an integer of 1 or more y is an integer of 1 or more and z is an integer of 1 or more such as CHF CHF etc. including all isomers thereof a nitrogen fluoride gas e.g. NF a sulfur fluoride gas e.g. SF or any other mixtures including such gases e.g. such as a mixture including Ar H O N etc. or mixtures of one or more fluorocarbon and or fluorohydrocarbon gases . In particular embodiments fluorine is present e.g. to promote volatilization of the silicon in a SiOhard mask . In other embodiments carbon is present e.g. to promote volatilization of the oxygen in a SiOhard mask .

Etching e.g. patterning of the hard mask can be optimized in any useful manner. In one instance the ratio of carbon to fluorine is minimized by selecting a gas having a greater proportion of fluorine thereby limiting deposition of carbon on the sidewall of the hard mask during the etch process. In particular carbon can deposit on the sidewall and reduce the sidewall slope. In another instance the process pressure can be minimized to reduce ion neutral collisions in the plasma sheath. The differential across the sheath tends to maintain incident ions normal to the planar surface and higher pressure can increase gas density and increase the mean free path of an ion. Thus higher pressure can lead to more ion neutral collisions in the sheath which can scatter the ions into off normal trajectories promote striking of the sidewall by the ions and ultimately reduce sidewall slope. In yet another instance a high radiofrequency power can be employed to provide a dense plasma which shrinks the sheath and reduces ion neutral collisions. Furthermore a higher voltage differential can increase ion energy thereby increasing momentum and decreasing the chance of ions being forced off of a normal trajectory.

If a photoresist is employed to pattern the hard mask then the photoresist can be removed in any useful manner prior to the step of etching the semiconductor portion e.g. a III V portion . The photoresist can be removed e.g. by an ash process a dry process that uses heat and oxygen radicals to volatilize carbon in the photoresist and or by a solvent process a wet process in which the removal process can include both dry and wet processes.

The etching step includes exposing the patterned semiconductor to plasma formed from a primary etchant gas. The exposed regions of the patterned semiconductor e.g. the regions of the semiconductor material in underlying the trench pattern are treated with plasma containing reactive ions of the etchant gas. In this way exposed semiconductor material located in proximity to the trench pattern is etched primarily in an anisotropic manner e.g. along the z axis in in order to provide a trench within the semiconductor material.

In particular we have observed that vertical sidewalls are achieved when the primary etchant gas includes only Cl. Without wishing to be limited by mechanism we believe that other non Clagents such as BCl act as passivating agents when these agents are employed for the bulk of the etching process. For instance industry standard plasma etches for films e.g. aluminum films typically use gas mixtures that include Cl BCl and N. However we have observed that both Nand BClprovide a passivating effect when used in the etch chemistry. When BClis employed during the bulk of the etching process this molecule forms a passivating coating on the sidewalls where this coating contributes to non vertical sidewalls. Thus for the AlN plasma etches described herein we determined empirically that to achieve vertical sidewalls it was necessary to remove BCland Nfrom the etch chemistry leaving chlorine as the sole process gas. Accordingly in some embodiments of the methods herein the primary etchant gas contains primarily Cl. Particular favorable results were observed when this etch process was used with a patterned semiconductor having a hard mask.

Having determined the negative effects of BClduring the primary or main etching step we have also observed that controlled supplemental exposure of BCl i.e. use of a supplementary gas including BCl either before or after the primary etching step can be helpful. For instance without wishing to be limited by mechanism initial exposure of BClgas prior to the primary etching step can help initiate the etching process. In addition subsequent exposure of BClgas after the primary etching step can help fully complete or land the etching process on the underlying insulator layer or substrate. As BClis a heavier molecule than Cl it is generally understood that plasma containing BClprovide more energetic ions and thus increase the etch rate as compared to plasma containing solely Cl. However to ensure that the primary etch is conducted by Clalone the duration of the primary etch period should be greater than the duration of supplemental periods that employ BCl. In one instance the duration of the primary etch period is independently 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 or more times greater than the duration of each supplemental period. In other embodiments the duration of the primary etching period is of from about 100 seconds to about 400 seconds and the duration of a supplemental period is of from about 5 second to about 50 seconds.

The removing step includes removing the hard mask thus providing an etched semiconductor having one or more trenches . In particular embodiments the removing step includes using an anisotropic plasma etch process that etches oxide but does not etch the underlying semiconductor material. This is an important distinction from an isotropic wet chemical etch because when an etchable insulator layer e.g. an SiOlayer underlies the semiconductor material a wet chemical etch will remove the underlying insulator layer thus eliminating the benefits of that layer. Some benefits of the underlying insulator layer include providing a layer that isolates the resonator active layers from the substrate and compensates the resonator frequency for thermal effects.

The hard mask can be removed in any useful manner. In one instance after etching the semiconductor portion the hard mask is removed with an anisotropic plasma etch process that employs fluorine based chemistry e.g. one or more fluorocarbon gases . High etch rate selectivity is important in which the hard mask is etched at a higher rate while minimizing the etch rate of the semiconductor material. Further as the hard mask is etched sputtering of the etched material e.g. the etched SiOmaterial should be minimized as sputtered material can re deposit on the sidewall of the semiconductor material.

High etch rate selectivity can be optimized in any useful manner. In one instance the hard mask etching time can be optimized to stop as soon as all of the hard mask material has been etched. In another instance a high carbon content fluorocarbon gas mixture can be employed to preferentially deposit carbon on the semiconductor material. For example when the semiconductor material includes AlN and the hard mask includes SiO carbon deposits preferentially on AlN relative to SiO. Without wishing to be limited by mechanism on a SiOsurface carbon atoms react with surface oxygen atoms to form CO and CO which are volatile molecules. In contrast AlN is not reactive in such a similar manner so carbon accumulates on the AlN surface and protects this AlN surface from sputtering by incident ions from the plasma. If this process is employed then accumulated carbon can be removed from the semiconductor surface by any useful removal process e.g. an ash process which is a dry process that uses heat and oxygen radicals to volatilize carbon .

The releasing step includes releasing a portion of the etched semiconductor thereby providing a released resonator portion . In particular embodiments releasing includes forming a trench along an x and or y axis which defines a dimension of the resonator portion e.g. a height dimension along the z axis and that allows the resonator portion to vibrate within a cavity surrounded by trenches that are etched into the semiconductor.

The methods herein can be modified to facilitate etching of any useful semiconductor material or to provide any useful semiconductor device. For instance the semiconductor can include a release layer e.g. an amorphous silicon release layer that underlies the resonator portion. In this way the release layer can be removed using CMOS compatible processes in order to release the resonator portion. In another instance the release layer can be an ion damaged region e.g. in a single crystal semiconductor material that can be removed by use of an etchant. Such ion damaged regions can be helpful in predetermining the height along the z axis of the resonator portion. Methods of forming ion damaged region in semiconductor materials are described in Olsson R H et al. A high electromechanical coupling coefficient SH0 Lamb wave lithium niobate micromechanical resonator and a method for fabrication 2014 209 183 90 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The methods herein employ a dry etching process for etching the semiconductor material as well as other materials or layers present in a stack e.g. insulator layer s one or more electrode layers release layer s diffusion barrier layer s substrate etc. .

In one instance the dry etching process employs plasma e.g. include inductively coupled plasma ICP an electron cyclotron resonance ECR plasma a helicon plasma or a surface wave plasma formed in a plasma reactor. shows an exemplary plasma reactor for performing the method of the invention. The reactor includes a chamber to contain the plasma as well as a source generator connected to an ICP coil surrounding the chamber . In addition the reactor includes a holder for supporting the semiconductor within the chamber a bias generator connected to the holder and an inlet for introducing one or more etchant gases into the chamber thereby controlling the composition of the etchant gas and the reactive species generated within the plasma.

The etching parameters can be optimized for anisotropic etching in order to provide a vertical sidewall. For instance as shown in the patterned semiconductor can include a material to be etched e.g. a semiconductor material a hard mask and any other optional layer s e.g. a substrate an insulator layer and one or more electrodes . The patterned semiconductor includes both exposed surfaces and masked surfaces as defined by the hard mask. When placed in a plasma reactor the exposed surfaces are bombarded with reaction ions during the etch step . When etching occurs preferentially in one direction e.g. along the z direction then etching occurs anisotropically along gray arrow in . In particular to obtain vertical sidewalls along the z direction anisotropic etching is recommended.

The patterned semiconductor can have any useful mask and the process can include one or more steps to remove the mask. In particular we have observed that use of a hard mask results in more vertical sidewalls. Exemplary hard masks include those formed from silicon dioxide or silicon nitride which can then be removed by any useful process e.g. plasma dry etching with fluorine containing plasma such as CF Oor CHF Oplasma .

The extent of verticality of the sidewall can be determined in any useful manner. In one instance the wall can be characterized by a sidewall angle which is measured as shown in e.g. having a vertex at the intersection between a planar surface along the bottom of an etched trench an edge of the etched semiconductor material and an edge of the trench as viewed from a cross section of the semiconductor stack . As seen in sidewall angle is measured along the semiconductor material and an angle measurement of 90 provides the ideal vertical sidewall.

Various parameters of the etching process can be optimized to provide a vertical sidewall as well as any other useful structural feature e.g. a smooth sidewall a reduction in microtrenching etc. . Exemplary parameters include source power e.g. of from about 500 W to about 2000 W bias e.g. a high bias such as of from about 40 W to about 200 W pressure e.g. a low pressure such as less than about 25 mTorr including of from about 5 mTorr to about 50 mTorr and flow rate of the etchant gas e.g. more than about 20 sccm standard cubic centimeters per minute such as of from about 40 sccm to 200 sccm .

In particular embodiments the methods herein employ an etchant gas that is optimized for providing vertical sidewalls. For instance we have determined that use of Clas an etchant gas promotes vertical sidewalls. In addition Clneed not be used for the entire etching process though this is a viable option because vertical sidewalls are obtained even when Clis employed during a majority and not all of the etching period. For instance an exemplary etching protocol can include a first supplementary etch period include BCland Cl e.g. from about 5 to 50 seconds a primary etch period including only Cl e.g. from about 100 to 400 seconds and a second supplementary etch period include BCland Cl e.g. from about 5 to 50 seconds . In some instances only one supplementary etch period is employed e.g. either before or after the primary etch period.

Without wishing to be limited by mechanism we believe that the BClprovides two different effects. First BClis a large molecule that can provide highly energetic reactive ions for more effective etching. However secondly BClcan also passivate the etched surface thereby reducing uniform etching of the sidewall. We believe that these two effects can be controlled by controlling the amount of BClthat is introduced with the primary etchant gas as well as by controlling when BClis added during the etching process.

In other instance the effects of etching can accommodated by proper design of the semiconductor stack. For example at times the semiconductor material overlies an insulator layer such that portions of the insulator layer are exposed after etching the semiconductor material. Based on etching conditions the insulator layer can become pitted or roughened during the etching process. In some instances the semiconductor stack can be designed to include the insulator layer as a sacrificial layer that is later etched completely such that surface roughening of the insulator layer does not affect the performance of the final device obtained from the etched semiconductor.

The methods herein can include any other useful modification or step such as the use of a parallel plate reactor implanting an ion damaged region such as that described in Olsson R H et al. 2014 209 183 90 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as well as one or more post etching steps such as annealing polishing and or ovenizing a resonator portion such as any described in Kim B et al. Ovenized and thermally tunable aluminum nitride microresonator . held on 11 14 Oct. 2010 in San Diego Calif. pp. 974 8 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 669 823 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additional modifications and steps are described in Danner D A et al. Plasma etching of aluminum a comparison of chlorinated etchants 1987 134 3 669 73 Donnelly V M et al. Plasma etching yesterday today and tomorrow 2013 31 050825 48 pp. Hahn Y B et al. Effect of additive noble gases in chlorine based inductively coupled plasma etching of GaN InN and AlN 1999 17 3 768 73 Khan F A et al. High rate etching of AlN using BCl Cl Ar inductively coupled plasma 2002 95 51 4 Shah A P et al. ICP RIE etching of polar semi polar and non polar AlN comparison of Cl Ar and Cl BCl Ar plasma chemistry and surface pretreatment 2015 30 015021 6 pp. Shah A P et al. Inductively coupled plasma reactive ion etching of III nitride semiconductors 2013 1512 494 5 Shul R J et al. Selectively inductively coupled plasma etching of group III nitrides in Cl and BCl based plasmas 1998 16 3 1621 6 Yang J et al. Researching the aluminum nitride etching process for application in MEMS resonators 2015 6 281 90 as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 256 534 5 624 529 7 081 415 and 7 196 017 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to methods to etch any useful semiconductor material provided in any useful structure e.g. a layer a stack etc. . In some instance the material can be any that can be etched by chlorine. In some instances the method is employed to etch a semiconductor including a semiconductor material. The semiconductor can include any other layers or materials as described herein.

Exemplary semiconductor materials include a piezoelectric material e.g. aluminum nitride AlN lithium niobate LiNbO or lithium tantalate LiTaO as well as single crystal forms of any useful piezoelectric material a III V material e.g. AlN AlGaN AlInP AlGaAs GaAs GaN InP InN InAs InSb InAlN InAlAs InAlP InGaN InGaAs AlGaInP InGaAlAs InGaAsP etc. including III nitride materials e.g. including Al In Ga As and or P such as AlN AlGaN GaN InN InAlN InGaN etc. a Si containing material an Al containing material e.g. Al as well as alloys thereof such as Al Cu and Al Si alloys as well as doped forms and composite forms of any of these. The semiconductor material can be of any useful thickness e.g. a thin film having a thickness of from about 100 nm to about 800 nm . These materials can be deposited in any useful manner such as chemical vapor deposition CVD metal organic CVD MOCVD reactive sputtering etc.

The hard mask can be formed from any useful material e.g. SiO silicon nitride e.g. SiN Mo TiN nickel Ni nickel boron alloy nickel phosphorous alloy chromium gold alloy titanium gold alloy etc. .

The semiconductor can include one or more insulator layers. Such insulators can be useful to electrically isolate an active layer from the underlying carrier substrate e.g. a silicon substrate . Exemplary insulator materials include silicon dioxide silicon nitride etc.

The electrodes can be formed of any useful material as well layers of a plurality of different materials as described herein. In particular embodiments the electrode has a stack structure that includes a conductive material and a diffusion barrier e.g. a layer that limits diffusion of atoms between the conductive material and the substrate . In some particular embodiments the conductive material of the electrode provides a dual function of conducting an electrical signal to the semiconductor material as well as templating of the semiconductor material during deposition. The top electrode and the bottom electrode can be the same or different.

The semiconductor can include one or more electrodes having a conductive material e.g. a conductive metal such as aluminum Al titanium Ti gold Au copper Cu tungsten W molybdenum Mo platinum Pt ruthenium Ru tantalum Ta chromium Cr osmium Os rhenium Re iridium Ir germanium Ge as well as stacks alloys multilayers e.g. TiW AlCu or TiW Cu layers or doped forms of any of these . In some instances the electrode can include a diffusion barrier that minimizes diffusion of atoms from the conductive material to other coextensive layers e.g. a TiN diffusion barrier and or an adhesion layer e.g. a Ti adhesion layer . The electrode can be electrically connected e.g. by wiring to one or more bond pads e.g. contact pads and or ground pads to provide electrical input and output connections for the active region e.g the resonator portion .

Exemplary electrodes include an interdigitated transducer a grating electrode a thin film electrode and or a floating electrode having any useful thickness period material or geometric arrangement and formed by any useful process such as sputtering vacuum deposition or ion plating. Exemplary electrodes are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 497 747 and 8 522 411 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Arrays of n electrodes or n pairs of electrodes e.g. n is 2 4 5 10 15 20 24 etc. can also be incorporated with the microresonator of the invention. In particular embodiments the electrode includes a lower resistive material to improve the quality factor and or to operate at higher frequencies e.g. any lower resistive material described herein such as gold silver copper aluminum as well as doped forms thereof .

The semiconductor can have any other useful layers such as a carrier substrate a temperature compensation layer e.g. formed of an insulator material such as silicon dioxide a tuning layer e.g. formed from an annealable material such as a Ti film a TiN film an Au Cu film as well as stacks thereof and or a release layer e.g. amorphous silicon or damaged LiNbO . Additional materials and layers are described in Henry M D et al. Frequency trimming of aluminum nitride microresonators using rapid thermal annealing 2014 23 3 620 7 Henry M D et al. Hermetic wafer level packaging for RF MEMs effects on resonator performance held on 29 May 1 Jun. 2012 in San Diego Calif. pp. 362 9 Kim B et al. Capacitive frequency tuning of AlN micromechanical resonators held on 5 9 Jun. 2011 in Beijing China pp. 502 5 Kim B et al. Ovenized and thermally tunable aluminum nitride microresonator . held on 11 14 Oct. 2010 in San Diego Calif. pp. 974 8 Marauska S et al. Sputtered thin film piezoelectric aluminum nitride as a functional MEMS material 2012 18 787 95 Olsson R H et al. A high electromechanical coupling coefficient SH0 Lamb wave lithium niobate micromechanical resonator and a method for fabrication 2014 209 183 90 Wojciechowski K E et al. Single chip precision oscillators based on multi frequency high Q aluminum nitride MEMS resonators held on 21 25 Jun. 2009 in Denver Colo. pp. 2126 30 and Wojciechowski K E et al. Super high frequency width extensional aluminum nitride AlN MEMS resonators . held on 20 23 Sep. 2009 in Rome Italy pp. 1179 82 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The methods herein can be employed to during any useful process and to fabricate any useful device. Exemplary uses include resonators filters e.g. band select filters filter banks oscillators photonic devices light emitting diodes photonic crystals vertical cavity surface emitting lasers reflectance modulators photonic circuits photonic waveguides accelerometers switches sensors ultrasonic transducers microphones field effect transistors heterojunction bipolar transistors etc.

Additional uses are described herein as well as in Aigner R MEMS in RF filter applications thin film bulk acoustic wave technology 2003 February 12 1 175 210 Bliznetsov V et al. Improving aluminum nitride plasma etch process for MEMS applications 2013 23 117001 6 pp. Chanchani R et al. A new wafer level packaging technology for MEMS with hermetic micro environment held on 31 May 3 Jun. 2011 in Lake Buena Vista Fla. pp. 1604 9 Cleland A N et al. Single crystal aluminum nitride nanomechanical sensors 2001 79 13 2070 2 Fan L et al. Aluminum nitride piezo acoustic photonic crystal nanocavity with high quality factors 2013 102 153507 4 pp. Kim B et al. AlN microresonator based filters with multiple bandwidths at low intermediate frequencies 2013 22 4 949 61 Liang J et al. Design and fabrication of aluminum nitride Lamb wave resonators toward high figure of merit for intermediate frequency filter applications 2015 25 035016 10 pp. Malocha D C SAW BAW acoustoelectronic technology for filters and communication systems 201011 held on 12 13 Apr. 2010 in Melbourne Fla. pp. 1 7 N el D et al. Aluminum nitride photonic crystals and microdiscs for ultra violet nanophotonics 2014 5 023001 7 pp. Nordquist C D et al. On off micro electromechanical switching of AlN piezoelectric resonators held on 2 7 Jun. 2013 in Seattle Wash. pp. 1 4 Olsson R H et al. Post CMOS compatible aluminum nitride resonant MEMS accelerometers 2009 18 3 671 8 Olsson R H et al. Post CMOS compatible aluminum nitride MEMS filters and resonant sensors held on 29 May 1 Jun. 2007 in Geneva Switzerland pp. 412 9 Pernice W H P et al. High Q aluminum nitride photonic crystal nanobeam cavities 2012 100 091105 4 pp. Piazza G et al. Piezoelectric aluminum nitride thin films for microelectromechanical systems 2012 37 1051 61 Xiong C et al. Aluminum nitride as a new material for chip scale optomechanics and nonlinear optics 2012 14 095014 21 pp. Xiong C et al. Low loss silicon integrated aluminum nitride photonic circuits and their use for electro optic signal processing 2012 12 3562 8 and Yantchev V et al. Thin film Lamb wave resonators in frequency control and sensing applications a review 2013 23 043001 14 pp. as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 385 334 and 8 497 747 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In particular embodiments the methods herein are employed to form a resonator. Exemplary resonators includes a Lamb wave resonator having a plate resonating portion a thickness mode acoustic wave resonator having longitudinal elastic waves traveling though the solid material a contour mode resonator having a suspended resonating portion as well as thickness field excitation and lateral field excitation resonators thereof. In addition the resonator can be optimized to promote symmetric modes asymmetric modes and or shear modes of the acoustic wave propagating in the piezoelectric crystal. Spurious modes can be reduced by any useful method such as by rotating bond contact pads.

Additional microresonators e.g. length extensional resonators contour mode resonators thickness mode resonators ring resonators and bar resonators and anchoring region designs are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 652 547 8 367 305 and 8 669 823 Wang R et al. Thin film lithium niobate contour mode resonators 2012 . held on 7 10 Oct. 2012 in Dresden Germany pp. 303 6 and Kadota M et al. High frequency Lamb wave device composed of MEMS structure using LiNbOthin film and air gap 2010 November 57 11 2564 71 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Etching studies were conducted employing aluminum nitride AlN as the semiconductor material although other materials etchable can be employed e.g. as described herein . Semiconductor stacks were fabricated as follows.

First we deposited an insulator layer SiO on bare silicon Si wafers. Then we deposited a bottom electrode film on the SiOlayer. In our instantiation we employed Al a conductor which also served as a grain orienting template for AlN deposition on TiN a diffusion barrier between Al and the Si substrate though other conductive film stacks can be employed. Optical lithography and plasma etch processes were used to define the electrode.

Then we deposited AlN over the bottom electrode and the SiOlayer. Optical lithography and subtractive etch processes were used to define tapered vias through the AlN layer and to expose the bottom electrode.

Next we deposited a top electrode layer which included aluminum on a top surface of the AlN layer. Lithographically patterning and subtractively etching were used to define the top electrode with a pattern that enables independent control of the top and bottom electrodes.

Finally we deposited a SiOlayer on the top surface of the stack. This SiOlayer served as a hard mask that defines the dimensions of the AlN resonating structure. To define the resonator we lithographically patterned and subtractively etched the oxide hard mask with the etch stopping on AlN. For this subtractive etch we used a plasma etch process that resulted in perfectly vertical sidewalls. Any slope in the sidewalls of the hard mask can transfer into the AlN layer thereby degrading subsequent resonator performance. After etching the SiOlayer to define trench patterns within the hard mask we removed the photoresist that was applied and patterned during the previous lithography step. The photoresist contained carbon which could contribute to non vertical sidewalls during the AlN etch process. After the photoresist was removed we subtractively etched the AlN thereby providing a patterned semiconductor to be processed by any of the AlN etching conditions described herein.

After the AlN etch the hard mask was removed and the resonator was released. In particular the oxide hard mask was removed by using a highly selective anisotropic oxide etch which etched the oxide mask but not AlN nor the electrodes. This is an important distinction from an isotropic wet chemical etch because the semiconductor stacks herein uses a silicon dioxide film under the AlN film in order to isolate the resonator from the substrate and to compensate the resonator frequency for thermal effects. A wet chemical etch will remove the underlying oxide film thus eliminating the benefits of that film. The resonator was released from the underlying silicon substrate by an isotropic dry etch including fluorine.

Etching studies were conducted employing AlN which is a material beneficial for fabricating Radio Frequency RF MEMS micro resonators. The piezoelectric transduction mechanism of these resonators allows the realization of low insertion loss filters. In addition the resonant frequency of these resonators is determined lithographically such that resonators having different resonant frequencies can be fabricated on the same wafer. Of course to fully realize the benefits that could be provided by AlN based resonators fabrication processes should be optimized. In particular with respect to lithographic processes any such processes should provide vertical sidewalls in order to provide useful quality factors. Thus one of the goals is to provide post etch profile of the AlN material that is vertical.

The etching processes were optimized by employing the same equipment and materials that are used in the manufacture of integrated circuits thereby ensuring that any developed methods can be incorporated with existing MEMS processes. Experiments were conducted using the semiconductor stack as described in Example 1. Several parameters were tested employing low pressure etching conditions. The effects of a few of these parameters are described as follows.

We evaluated two different mask materials photoresist or hard mask with SiO at different thicknesses. The mask material had a significant effect on sidewall verticality whereas mask thickness did not have a significant effect. The use of oxide hard marks provided a more vertical sidewall. Generally photoresist masks are employed in etching processes. We have decided to omit use of such photoresist masks that can re deposit on the sidewall as a passivating polymer.

Other etching parameters were varied. First we altered source power and bias power as shown in Table 1 below and exemplary SEM images are provided in . Under our tested conditions altering source power and bias power impacted etching rate but did not affect the sidewall angle. In fact a range of source and bias powers provided good results. This observation provides a useful method in which source power and or bias power can be altered by the user to obtain the desired etching rate without negatively impacting the sidewall angle.

Second we altered the composition of the etchant gas. Varied parameters are provided in Table 2 below and exemplary SEM images are provided in .

The etchant gas was altered in various ways. For instance we removed BClas component of the primary etchant gas Condition E in Table 2 upper right image in . The sidewall angle was improved though the field was rough. In our design the field is a sacrificial layer that will be later removed in order to release the resonator. In addition other parameters e.g. etching period can be optimized to minimize surface roughness.

Also we eliminated Oas a component of the primary etchant gas Condition G in Table 2 lower right image in . Ois frequently added to the etchant gas to remove etch polymer from sidewalls thereby improving sidewall verticality. Under our tested conditions we observed that Oaddition had a detriment effect of sidewall verticality. Without wishing to be limited by mechanism the addition of Oinhibited etching overall possibly by forming an alumina film.

Additional steps were included during etching. We included overetches or supplemental etches in which a primary etch was combined with a supplemental etch step conducted either before and or after the primary etch. In one example we conducted a two step etch in which the first step only included Cland the second step included Cland BCl Condition H in Table 2 images in . Without wishing to be limited by mechanism such supplemental steps can be employed to add a heavy molecule e.g. BCl that may mitigate micromasking. Overetches provided some improvement of the vertical sidewall angle.

Plasma etches for aluminum containing films typically use gas mixtures that include Cl BCl and N. However in the conditions tested herein both BCland Nprovided a passivating effect which resulted in a non vertical AlN sidewall. For this reason we removed or minimized BCland Nfrom the primary etch chemistry leaving chlorine as the sole process gas. However BClcan be introduced at discrete moments e.g. at the start of the primary etch step to encourage initiation of etching and or at the end of the primary etch step e.g. after most of the film is etched to help fully land the etch on the underlying insulator layer. An exemplary process includes use of BClfor the first 10 seconds and last 20 seconds of an etch that has a duration of about 180 seconds.

Based on the favorable results with Clas primary etchant gas further studies were conducted employing a low pressure high bias power plasma process with Clas the primary reactive gas. Test parameters are provided in Table 3 below and SEM images are provided in .

Further parameters were varied while maintaining Clas the main process gas. These parameters included source power bias power and etch time. Under the tested conditions e.g. low pressure high bias conditions all of these variations provided vertical sidewalls e.g. a vertical sidewall angle greater than about 80 .

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

