---

title: Myonectin (CTRP15), compositions comprising same, and methods of use
abstract: Disclosed is the novel myokine known as myonectin (CTRP15), an isolated nucleic acid encoding the myonectin (CTRP15) gene, and the amino acid sequence encoding the myonectin (CTRP15) protein. Methods of isolation of the nucleic acid, protein, polypeptides and methods of making anybodies to myonectin (CTRP15) protein are provided. The use of myonectin (CTRP15) in the modulation of lipid and/or glucose metabolism, suppressing the expression of autophagy genes, inhibiting LC3 lipidation and autophagosome-dependent p62 degradation, and activating the Akt/mTOR pathway is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09545433&OS=09545433&RS=09545433
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 09545433
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151125
---
This application is a Divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 373 685 filed Jul. 22 2014 which is a 35 U.S.C. 371 U.S. national entry of International Application PCT US2013 022855 having an international filing date of Jan. 24 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 590 940 filed Jan. 26 2013 the content of each of the aforementioned applications is herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant nos. DK008417 DK084607 and DK007751 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application contains a sequence listing. It has been submitted electronically via EFS Web as an ASCII text file entitled P11853 02 ST25 . The sequence listing is 12 511 bytes in size and was created on Jan. 23 2013. It is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A large proportion of diet derived glucose is taken up by skeletal muscle in response to insulin and excess glucose is stored in muscle as glycogen until mobilized. In addition muscle burns large amounts of fat via mitochondrial oxidation in response to energy demands. Insulin resistance in skeletal muscle has long been recognized to be an important underlying mechanism of type 2 diabetes. While the importance of skeletal muscle in controlling whole body glucose and lipid metabolism is well established its role as an endocrine tissue that secretes biologically active polypeptide hormones and cytokines collectively termed myokines involved in modulating metabolic inflammatory and other physiological processes in non muscle tissues has only recently been investigated.

Recent proteomics studies focusing on the secretome the entire complement of secreted proteins of cultured mouse or human myotubes have revealed a large number 250 in human and 600 in mouse of muscle cell derived secretory proteins with potential autocrine paracrine and or endocrine functions. For example IL 6 FGF 21 Insulin like 6 Ins16 follistatin like 1 Fstl 1 also known as TSC 36 LIF IL 7 IL 15 and musclin are currently characterized as myokines. These myokines act locally in an autocrine paracrine manner and or as endocrine factors linking skeletal muscle to regulation of physiological processes in other tissues.

However the expression of all myokines described to date is not restricted to skeletal muscle they are generally expressed by a variety of cell types and most are in fact expressed at much higher levels by non muscle tissues. Prior to the present invention no myokine has been discovered to be preferentially expressed by skeletal muscle.

Therefore there still exists a need for compositions suitable for use in modulation of metabolic inflammatory and whole body fatty acid metabolism.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides the first molecular biochemical and functional characterization of a protein identified as myonectin CTRP15 along with evidence that it is a novel nutrient responsive myokine secreted by skeletal muscle to regulate whole body fatty acid metabolism.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the myonectin CTRP15 protein was identified as a novel myokine e.g. a peptide having autocrine paracrine and endocrine activity in skeletal muscle.

In accordance with another embodiment the present invention provides an isolated polynucleotide encoding the myonectin CTRP15 gene.

In accordance with a further embodiment the present invention provides an isolated polynucleotide encoding the myonectin CTRP15 gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 1.

In accordance with still a further embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant expression vector comprising the isolated nucleotide sequence encoding the myonectin CTRP15 gene.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides an isolated or purified myonectin CTRP15 protein.

In accordance with another embodiment the present invention provides an isolated or purified polypeptide of myonectin CTRP15 comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 or a functional portion thereof.

In accordance with yet another embodiment the present invention provides an isolated or purified nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 1.

In accordance with yet another embodiment the present invention provides an isolated host cell comprising a recombinant expression vector comprising the isolated nucleotide sequence encoding the myonectin CTRP15 gene.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a population of cells prepared using the methods described above.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides an antibody or antigen binding portion thereof which specifically binds to a portion of the myonectin CTRP 15 protein.

In accordance with yet another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In accordance with another embodiment the present invention provides a method of modulating lipid and or glucose metabolism in a subject comprising administering to the host a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a method of suppressing the expression of autophagy genes in a subject comprising administering to the host a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting LC3 lipidation and autophagosome dependent p62 degradation in a subject comprising administering to the host a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a method of activating the Akt mTOR pathway in a subject comprising administering to the host a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Herein is provided the first characterization of myonectin CTRP15 protein with in vitro and in vivo evidence that it is a novel myokine with important metabolic function. Unlike the other CTRPs characterized to date myonectin CTRP15 is expressed and secreted predominantly by skeletal muscle. Myonectin CTRP15 functions as a myokine that mediates crosstalk between skeletal muscle and other metabolic compartments e.g. adipose tissue and liver to coordinate the integration of whole body metabolism. Consistent with this notion the expression and secretion of myonectin by skeletal muscle is highly responsive to acute nutritional and metabolic changes e.g. fast re fed cycle and exercise as well as chronic alteration in energy state of the animals e.g. diet induced obesity .

The term nucleic acid as used herein includes polynucleotide oligonucleotide and nucleic acid molecule and generally means an isolated or purified polymer of DNA or RNA which can be single stranded or double stranded synthesized or obtained e.g. isolated and or purified from natural sources which can contain natural non natural or altered nucleotides and which can contain a natural non natural or altered phosphodiester linkage such as a phosphoroamidate linkage or a phosphorothioate linkage instead of the phosphodiester found between the nucleotides of an unmodified oligonucleotide. In some embodiments the nucleic acid does not comprise any insertions deletions inversions and or substitutions. However it may be suitable in some instances as discussed herein for the nucleic acid to comprise one or more insertions deletions inversions and or substitutions.

Preferably the nucleic acids of the invention are recombinant. As used herein the term recombinant refers to i molecules that are constructed outside living cells by joining natural or synthetic nucleic acid segments to nucleic acid molecules that can replicate in a living cell or ii molecules that result from the replication of those described in i above. For purposes herein the replication can be in vitro replication or in vivo replication.

The nucleic acids can be constructed based on chemical synthesis and or enzymatic ligation reactions using procedures known in the art. See for example Sambrook et al 3rd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 2001 and Ausubel et al. . Greene Publishing Associates and John Wiley Sons NY 1994. For example a nucleic acid can be chemically synthesized using naturally occurring nucleotides or variously modified nucleotides designed to increase the biological stability of the molecules or to increase the physical stability of the duplex formed upon hybridization e.g. phosphorothioate derivatives and acridine substituted nucleotides . Examples of modified nucleotides that can be used to generate the nucleic acids include but are not limited to 5 fluorouracil 5 bromouracil 5 chlorouracil 5 iodouracil hypoxanthine xanthine 4 acetylcytosine 5 carboxyhydroxymethyl uracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thiouridine 5 carboxymethylaminomethyluracil dihydrouracil beta D galactosylqueosine inosine N isopentenyladenine 1 methylguanine 1 methylinosine 2 2 dimethylguanine 2 methyladenine 2 methylguanine 3 methylcytosine 5 methylcytosine N substituted adenine 7 methylguanine 5 methylaminomethyluracil 5 methoxyaminomethyl 2 thiouracil beta D mannosylqueosine 5 methoxycarboxymethyluracil 5 methoxyuracil 2 methylthio N isopenlenyladenine uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v wybutoxosine pseudouracil queosine 2 thiocytosine 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 2 thiouracil 4 thiouracil 5 methyluracil uracil 5 oxyacetic acid methylester 3 3 amino 3 N 2 carboxypropyl uracil and 2 6 diaminopurine. Alternatively one or more of the nucleic acids of the invention can be purchased from companies such as Macromolecular Resources Fort Collins Colo. and Synthegen Houston Tex. .

The invention also provides an isolated or purified nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to the nucleotide sequence of any of the nucleic acids described herein or a nucleotide sequence which hybridizes under stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence of any of the nucleic acids described herein.

The term isolated as used herein means having been removed from its natural environment. The term purified as used herein means having been increased in purity wherein purity is a relative term and not to be necessarily construed as absolute purity. For example the purity can be at least about 50 can be greater than 60 70 or 80 or can be 100 .

The term primer refers to an oligonucleotide whether natural or synthetic capable of acting as a point of initiation of DNA synthesis under conditions in which synthesis of a primer extension product complementary to a nucleic acid strand is induced i.e. in the presence of four different nucleoside triphosphates and an agent for polymerization i.e. DNA polymerase or reverse transcriptase in an appropriate buffer and at a suitable temperature. A primer is preferably a single stranded oligodeoxyribonucleotide. The appropriate length of a primer depends on the intended use of the primer but typically ranges from about 10 to about 30 nucleotides. Short primer molecules generally require cooler temperatures to form sufficiently stable hybrid complexes with the template. A primer need not reflect the exact sequence of the template but must be sufficiently complementary to specifically hybridize with a template. When primer pairs are referred to herein the pair is meant to include one forward primer which is capable of hybridizing to the sense strand of a double stranded target nucleic acid the sense primer and one reverse primer which is capable of hybridizing to the antisense strand of a double stranded target nucleic acid the antisense primer .

 Probe refers to an oligonucleotide which binds through complementary base pairing to a sub sequence of a target nucleic acid. A primer may be a probe. It will be understood by one of skill in the art that probes will typically substantially bind target sequences lacking complete complementarity with the probe sequence depending upon the stringency of the hybridization conditions. The probes are typically directly labeled e.g. with isotopes or fluorescent moieties or indirectly labeled such as with biotin to which a streptavidin complex may later bind. By assaying for the presence or absence of the probe one can detect the presence or absence of the target by Southern blot for example.

The recombinant expression vectors of the invention can be prepared using standard recombinant DNA techniques described in for example Sambrook et al. supra and Ausubel et al. supra. Constructs of expression vectors which are circular or linear can be prepared to contain a replication system functional in aprokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell. Replication systems can be derived e.g. from ColE1 2 plasmid SV40 bovine papilloma virus and the like.

Desirably the recombinant expression vector comprises regulatory sequences such as transcription and translation initiation and termination codons which are specific to the type of host e.g. bacterium fungus plant or animal into which the vector is to be introduced as appropriate and taking into consideration whether the vector is DNA or RNA based.

The recombinant expression vector can include one or more marker genes which allow for selection of transformed or transfected hosts. Marker genes include biocide resistance e.g. resistance to antibiotics heavy metals etc. complementation in an auxotrophic host to provide prototrophy and the like. Suitable marker genes for the inventive expression vectors include for instance neomycin G418 resistance genes hygromycin resistance genes histidinol resistance genes tetracycline resistance genes puromycin resistance genes and ampicillin resistance genes. In accordance with an embodiment the expression vector can be pCR2.1 TOPO vector Invitrogen for example.

The selection of promoters e.g. strong weak inducible tissue specific and developmental specific is within the ordinary skill of the artisan. Similarly the combining of a nucleotide sequence with a promoter is also within the skill of the artisan. The promoter can be a non viral promoter or a viral promoter e.g. a cytomegalovirus CMV promoter the tet on promoter or the ubiquitin C promoter for example.

In accordance with an embodiment the isolated or purified polypeptides and proteins of the invention including functional portions and functional variants can be glycosylated amidated carboxylated phosphorylated esterified N acylated cyclized via e.g. a disulfide bridge or converted into an acid addition salt and or optionally dimerized or polymerized or conjugated.

When the isolated or purified polypeptides and proteins of the invention including functional portions and functional variants are in the form of a salt preferably the polypeptides are in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those derived from mineral acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric and sulphuric acids and organic acids such as tartaric acetic citric malic lactic fumaric benzoic glycolic gluconic succinic and arylsulphonic acids for example p toluenesulphonic acid.

The isolated or purified polypeptides and or proteins of the invention including functional portions and functional variants thereof can be obtained by methods known in the art. Suitable methods of de novo synthesizing polypeptides and proteins are described in references such as Chan et al. Oxford University Press Oxford United Kingdom 2005 ed. Reid R. Marcel Dekker Inc. 2000 ed. Westwoood et al. Oxford University Press Oxford United Kingdom 2001 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 449 752. Also polypeptides and proteins can be recombinantly produced using the nucleic acids described herein using standard recombinant methods. See for instance Sambrook et al. 3rd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 2001 and Ausubel et al. . Greene Publishing Associates and John Wiley Sons NY 2007. Further some of the polypeptides and proteins of the invention including functional portions and functional variants thereof can be isolated and or purified from a source such as a plant a bacterium an insect a mammal e.g. a rat a mouse a human etc. Methods of isolation and purification are well known in the art. Alternatively the polypeptides and or proteins described herein including functional portions and functional variants thereof can be commercially synthesized by companies such as Synpep Dublin Calif. Peptide Technologies Corp. Gaitheisburg Md. and Multiple Peptide Systems San Diego Calif. . In this respect the inventive polypeptides and proteins can be synthetic recombinant isolated and or purified.

Included in the scope of the invention are conjugates e.g. bioconjugates comprising any of the inventive polypeptides or proteins including any of the functional portions or variants thereof nucleic acids recombinant expression vectors host cells populations of host cells or antibodies or antigen binding portions thereof. Conjugates as well as methods of synthesizing conjugates in general are known in the art See for instance Hudecz F. 298 209 223 2005 and Kirin et al. 44 15 5405 5415 2005 .

Another embodiment of the invention further provides a host cell comprising any of the recombinant expression vectors described herein. As used herein the term host cell refers to any type of cell that can contain the inventive recombinant expression vector. The host cell can be a eukaryotic cell e.g. plant animal fungi or algae or can be a prokaryotic cell e.g. bacteria or protozoa. The host cell can be a cultured cell or a primary cell i.e. isolated directly from an organism e.g. a human. The host cell can be an adherent cell or a suspended cell i.e. a cell that grows in suspension. Suitable host cells are known in the art and include for instance DH5 cells Chinese hamster ovarian cells monkey VERO cells COS cells HEK293 cells and the like. For purposes of amplifying or replicating the recombinant expression vector the host cell is preferably a eukaryotic cell. More preferably the host cell is a myocyte and or pre adipocyte for example a mouse C2C12 myocyte and 3T3 L1 cell. Most preferably the host cell is a human cell.

Also provided by an embodiment of the invention is a population of cells comprising at least one host cell described herein. The population of cells can be a heterogeneous population comprising the host cell comprising any of the recombinant expression vectors described in addition to at least one other cell e.g. a host cell e.g. a myocyte cell which does not comprise any of the recombinant expression vectors or a cell other than a myocyte e.g. a B cell a macrophage a neutrophil an erythrocyte a hepatocyte an endothelial cell an epithelial cells a pre adipocyte cell a brain cell etc. Alternatively the population of cells can be a substantially homogeneous population in which the population comprises mainly of host cells e.g. consisting essentially of comprising the recombinant expression vector. The population also can be a clonal population of cells in which all cells of the population are clones of a single host cell comprising a recombinant expression vector such that all cells of the population comprise the recombinant expression vector. In one embodiment of the invention the population of cells is a clonal population comprising host cells comprising a recombinant expression vector as described herein.

The host referred to in the inventive methods can be any host. Preferably the host is a mammal. As used herein the term mammal refers to any mammal including but not limited to mammals of the order Rodentia such as mice and hamsters and mammals of the order Lagomorpha such as rabbits. It is preferred that the mammals are from the order Carnivore including Felines cats and Canines dogs . It is more preferred that the mammals are from the order Artiodactyla including Bovine cows and Swine pigs or of the order Perssodactyla including Equine horses . It is most preferred that the mammals are of the order Primates Ceboids or Simoids monkeys or of the order Anthropoids humans and apes . An especially preferred mammal is the human.

Another embodiment of the invention further provides an antibody or antigen binding portion thereof which specifically binds to the myonectin CTRP15 protein or isolated or purified peptide fragments thereof described herein. In one embodiment the antibody or antigen binding portion thereof binds to an epitope or peptide fragment which contains any of the mutant amino acids which differ from the wild type proteins. The antibody can be any type of immunoglobulin that is known in the art. For instance the antibody can be of any isotype e.g. IgA IgD IgE IgG IgM etc. The antibody can be monoclonal or polyclonal. The antibody can be a naturally occurring antibody e.g. an antibody isolated and or purified from a mammal e.g. mouse rabbit goat horse chicken hamster human etc. Alternatively the antibody can be a genetically engineered antibody e.g. a humanized antibody or a chimeric antibody. The antibody can be in monomeric or polymeric form. Also the antibody can have any level of affinity or avidity for the mutated portion of the myonectin CTRP15 protein or peptide fragments thereof of the present invention such that there is minimal cross reaction with other peptides or proteins.

Methods of testing antibodies for the ability to bind to any functional portion of any of the myonectin CTRP15 protein or isolated or purified peptide fragments thereof are known in the art and include any antibody antigen binding assay such as for example radioimmunoassay RIA ELISA Western blot immunoprecipitation and competitive inhibition assays see e.g. Janeway et al. infra and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0197266 A1 .

Suitable methods of making antibodies are known in the art. For instance standard hybridoma methods are described in e.g. K hler and Milstein 5 511 519 1976 Harlow and Lane eds. CSH Press 1988 and C. A. Janeway et al. eds. 5Ed. Garland Publishing New York N.Y. 2001 . Alternatively other methods such as EBV hybridoma methods Haskard and Archer 74 2 361 67 1984 and Roder et al. 121 140 67 1986 and bacteriophage vector expression systems see e.g. Huse et al. 246 1275 81 1989 are known in the art. Further methods of producing antibodies in non human animals are described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 545 806 5 569 825 and 5 714 352 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0197266 A1 .

Phage display furthermore can be used to generate the antibody of the invention. In this regard phage libraries encoding antigen binding variable V domains of antibodies can be generated using standard molecular biology and recombinant DNA techniques see e.g. Sambrook et al. eds. 3Edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press New York 2001 . Phages encoding a variable region with the desired specificity are selected for specific binding to the desired antigen and a complete or partial antibody is reconstituted comprising the selected variable domain. Nucleic acid sequences encoding the reconstituted antibody are introduced into a suitable cell line such as a myeloma cell used for hybridoma production such that antibodies having the characteristics of monoclonal antibodies are secreted by the cell see e.g. Janeway et al. supra Huse et al. supra and U.S. Pat. No. 6 265 150 .

Antibodies can be produced by transgenic mice that are transgenic for specific heavy and light chain immunoglobulin genes. Such methods are known in the art and described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 545 806 and 5 569 825 and Janeway et al. supra.

Methods for generating humanized antibodies are well known in the art and are described in detail in for example Janeway et al. supra U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 225 539 5 585 089 and 5 693 761 European Patent No. 0239400 B1 and United Kingdom Patent No. 2188638. Humanized antibodies can also be generated using the antibody resurfacing technology described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 639 641 and Pedersen et al. 235 959 973 1994 .

Also the antibody or antigen binding portion thereof can be modified to comprise a detectable label such as for instance a radioisotope a fluorophore e.g. fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC phycoerythrin PE an enzyme e.g. alkaline phosphatase horseradish peroxidase and element particles e.g. gold particles .

The polypeptides proteins including functional portions and functional variants thereof nucleic acids recombinant expression vectors host cells including populations thereof and antibodies including antigen binding portions thereof can be isolated and or purified. The term isolated as used herein means having been removed from its natural environment. The term purified as used herein means having been increased in purity wherein purity is a relative term and not to be necessarily construed as absolute purity. For example the purity can be at least about 50 can be greater than 60 70 or 80 or can be 100 .

The choice of carrier will be determined in part by the particular myonectin CTRP15 protein as well as by the particular method used to administer the myonectin CTRP15 protein. Accordingly there are a variety of suitable formulations of the pharmaceutical composition of the invention. The following formulations for parenteral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraarterial intrathecal and interperitoneal administration are exemplary and are in no way limiting. More than one route can be used to administer the myonectin CTRP15 protein and in certain instances a particular route can provide a more immediate and more effective response than another route.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions which can contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending agents solubilizers thickening agents stabilizers and preservatives.

Oils which can be used in parenteral formulations include petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic oils. Specific examples of oils include peanut soybean sesame cottonseed corn olive petrolatum and mineral. Suitable fatty acids for use in parenteral formulations include oleic acid stearic acid and isostearic acid. Ethyl oleate and isopropyl myristate are examples of suitable fatty acid esters.

Suitable soaps for use in parenteral formulations include fatty alkali metal ammonium and triethanolamine salts and suitable detergents include a cationic detergents such as for example dimethyl dialkyl ammonium halides and alkyl pyridinium halides b anionic detergents such as for example alkyl aryl and olefin sulfonates alkyl olefin ether and monoglyceride sulfates and sulfosuccinates c nonionic detergents such as for example fatty amine oxides fatty acid alkanolamides and polyoxyethylenepolypropylene copolymers d amphoteric detergents such as for example alkyl aminopropionates and 2 alkyl imidazoline quaternary ammonium salts and e mixtures thereof.

The parenteral formulations will typically contain from about 0.5 to about 25 by weight of the myonectin CTRP15 protein in solution. Preservatives and buffers may be used. In order to minimize or eliminate irritation at the site of injection such compositions may contain one or more nonionic surfactants having a hydrophile lipophile balance HLB of from about 12 to about 17. The quantity of surfactant in such formulations will typically range from about 5 to about 15 by weight. Suitable surfactants include polyethylene glycol sorbitan fatty acid esters such as sorbitan monooleate and the high molecular weight adducts of ethylene oxide with a hydrophobic base formed by the condensation of propylene oxide with propylene glycol. The parenteral formulations can be presented in unit dose or multi dose sealed containers such as ampoules and vials and can be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid excipient for example water for injections immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions can be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets.

Injectable formulations are in accordance with the invention. The requirements for effective pharmaceutical carriers for injectable compositions are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art see e.g. J. B. Lippincott Company Philadelphia Pa. Banker and Chalmers eds. pages 238 250 1982 and Trissel 15th ed. pages 622 630 2009 .

For purposes of the invention the amount or dose of the myonectin CTRP15 protein administered should be sufficient to effect e.g. a therapeutic or prophylactic response in the subject over a reasonable time frame. The dose will be determined by the efficacy of the particular myonectin CTRP15 protein and the condition of a human as well as the body weight of a human to be treated.

The dose of the myonectin CTRP15 protein also will be determined by the existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects that might accompany the administration of a particular myonectin CTRP15 protein. Typically the attending physician will decide the dosage of the myonectin CTRP15 protein with which to treat each individual patient taking into consideration a variety of factors such as age body weight general health diet sex vaccine protein to be administered route of administration and the severity of the condition being treated. By way of example and not intending to limit the invention the dose of the myonectin CTRP15 protein can be about 0.001 to about 1000 mg kg body weight of the subject being treated day from about 0.01 to about 10 mg kg body weight day about 0.01 mg to about 1 mg kg body weight day. In a preferred embodiment the dose of the myonectin CTRP15 protein administered is about 5 10 mg kg day.

Alternatively the myonectin CTRP15 protein can be modified into a depot form such that the manner in which the vaccine protein is released into the body to which it is administered is controlled with respect to time and location within the body see for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 450 150 . Depot forms of myonectin CTRP15 proteins can be for example an implantable composition comprising the vaccine proteins and a porous or non porous material such as a polymer wherein the myonectin CTRP15 protein is encapsulated by or diffused throughout the material and or degradation of the non porous material. The depot is then implanted into the desired location within the body and the myonectin CTRP15 proteins are released from the implant at a predetermined rate.

With respect to the inventive method of detecting any of the myonectin CTRP15 protein or nucleic acid molecules in a host the sample of cells of the host can be a sample comprising whole cells lysates thereof or a fraction of the whole cell lysates e.g. a nuclear or cytoplasmic fraction a whole protein fraction or a nucleic acid fraction.

For purposes of the inventive detecting method the contacting can take place in vitro or in vivo with respect to the host. Preferably the contacting is in vitro.

As used herein the term treatment or modulation is an approach for obtaining beneficial or desired clinical results. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. The term treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. The term treatment is an intervention performed with the intention of preventing the development of a disorder or altering the pathology of a disorder. Accordingly the term treatment refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures.

The terms metabolic disease and metabolic disorder are used in the broadest sense and include any condition that is associated with abnormal fatty acid and or insulin metabolism and would benefit from treatment of the present invention. This includes chronic and acute disorders or diseases including those pathological conditions which predispose the mammal to the disorder in question. The terms include without limitation disorders associated with hyperlipidemia as well as diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. In one or more preferred embodiments the disorder to be treated in accordance with the present invention is obesity type 2 diabetes and cardiac hypertrophy.

In one embodiment a tissue sample is obtained from the musculature or adipose tissue of a mammal. The sample may be obtained by any method known in the art such as by biopsy or by a surgical procedure. Such methods for obtaining tissue samples are well known in the art. The sample is preferably obtained from a part of the anatomy that is known to comprise stem cells.

In a preferred embodiment a small tissue sample is obtained from a donor during a surgical procedure. The sample may be for example a sample of myocytes. Preferably the donor is the patient that Will receive an autologous transplant of differentiated cells.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a method of of modulating lipid and or glucose metabolism in a subject suffering from a metabolic disease comprising a obtaining mammalian pluripotent multipotent stem cells b initiating differentiation of the mammalian pluripotent multipotent stem cells into a population of differentiated cells comprising the methods described above c transfecting the differentiated cells using a recombinant vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 gene d analyzing the development of differentiated cells in culture and c transplanting the differentiated cells into the subject.

For example following proliferation and differentiation stem cells are transplanted into a patient. Preferably the patient will receive from about 0.5 million to about 80 million cells more preferably about 0.5 million to about 10 million cells and still more preferably 4 million to about 8 million cells.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a method of suppressing the expression of autophagy genes in a subject comprising administering to the host a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting LC3 lipidation and autophagosome dependent p62 degradation in a subject comprising administering to the host a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a method of activating the Akt mTOR pathway in a subject comprising administering to the host a pharmaceutical composition comprising a myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a recombinant expression vector comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or a myonectin CTRP15 protein or functional portion thereof or a myonectin CTRP15 polypeptide or a host cell or population of cells comprising the myonectin CTRP15 isolated nucleic acid or an antibody to myonectin CTRP15 protein or antigen binding portion thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The following examples further illustrate the invention but of course should not be construed as in any way limiting its scope.

Antibodies and chemicals. Mouse monoclonal anti FLAG M2 antibody was obtained from Sigma and rat monoclonal anti HA clone 3F10 antibody was obtained from Roche Applied Science. AICAR an AMPK activator was obtained from Calbiochem city state insulin isoproterenol ionomycin and epinephrine from Sigma St. Louis Mo. forskolin from Cell Signaling Technology. Rabbit monoclonal antibodies recognizing p62 ULK1 phosphor ULK1 Ser 757 Akt phosphor Akt Thr 308 p70 S6 Kinase phosphor p70 S6 kinase Thr 389 and Tubulin were obtained from Cell Signaling Technology. Rabbit polyclonal antibody recognizing LC3B was obtained from Sigma Aldrich. FRAP mTOR inhibitor was obtained from Cell Signaling Technology.

Animals. Eight week old male or female wild type C57BL 6 mice were purchased from the Jackson Laboratory and were housed in polycarbonate cages on a 12 hour light dark photocycle with free access to water and standard laboratory chow diet no. 5001 Lab Diet PMI Nutrition International St. Louis Mo. throughout the study period. Separate cohorts of mice were fed a high fat diet 60 kcal derived from fat D12492 or an isocaloric matched low fat diet 10 kcal derived from fat D 12450B purchased from Research Diets Inc. New Brunswick N.J. . HF diet was provided for a period of 12 14 weeks starting at 4 5 weeks of age to make mice diet induced obese DIO . Blood samples were collected for serum analysis. Tissues were collected snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and kept at 80 C.

Animals were fasted for 24 h and injected via tail vein with either 10 L g body weight of 20 glucose solution Hepes buffer vehicle control or 1 g g body weight recombinant myonectin protein. Serum and tissues were harvested 4 h post injection. All animal protocols were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.

Cloning of mouse myonectin. A search for CTRP like proteins in the NCBI GenBank databases identified a novel cDNA encoding a previously undescribed member of the CTRP family which we designated as CTRP15 myonectin. Based on genomic DNA and EST sequences a PCR approach was used to clone the entire coding region of mouse myonectin from a skeletal muscle cDNA library Clontech . For mouse myonectin the primer pair used was 5 CAGCATGGCCTCGACCCGCCGCCCCGTCGGA G 3 SEQ ID NO 3 and 5 CAGCTGCTGCAGGCTCTTACCCTT A 3 SEQ ID NO 4 . The PCR product was agarose gel purified and cloned into the pCR2.1 TOPO vector Invitrogen . The entire cDNA insert was sequenced.

cDNA constructs. C terminal FLAG epitope DYKDDDDK SEQ ID NO 5 tagged mouse myonectin cDNA was generated by PCR cloned into the mammalian expression vector pCDNA3.1 Invitrogen and verified by DNA sequencing. C terminal HA epitope YPYDVPDYA SEQ ID NO 6 tagged mouse adiponectin and all CTRPs used in this study were generated as previously described 2004 101 10302 10307 . 2009 23 241 258 . 2008 416 161 177 and . 2011 286 15652 15665 .

Generation of myonectin specific antibody. Rabbit polyclonal anti peptide antibody that can specifically recognize mouse myonectin epitope 77 KQSDKGI NSKRRSKARR 93 SEQ ID NO 7 was generated YenZym Antibodies LLC and tested against conditioned medium harvested from myonectin transfected HEK 293T cells.

Protein purification. Recombinant full length mouse myonectin containing a C terminal FLAG tagged epitope was produced in mammalian cells as described previously . 2008 supra . The presence of carbohydrate moiety and the formation of higher order oligomers necessitate that recombinant myonectin be produced in mammalian cells to ensure biologically active protein. Briefly HEK 293 cells Grip Tite cells Invitrogen were cultured in DMEM containing 10 v v bovine calf serum supplemented with antibiotics. Transfections were performed in HEK 293 cells using the calcium phosphate method 1977 11 223 232 . At 48 hours post transfection medium was replaced with serum free Opti MEM Invitrogen supplemented with vitamin C 0.1 mg ml . Supernatants were collected three times every 48 hours pooled and purified using an anti FLAG affinity gel according to the manufacturer s protocol Sigma then eluted with 150 g ml FLAG peptide Sigma . Purified proteins were dialyzed against 20 mM Hepes buffer pH 8.0 containing 135 mM NaCl in a 10 kDa cut off Slide A Lyzer dialysis cassette Pierce Rockford Ill. . Protein concentration was determined using a Coomassie Plus protein assay reagent Thermo Scientific and samples were stored at 80 C.

Cloning of human myonectin CTRP15 . A schematic of the cloning protocol is provided in . Commercially purchased human total skeletal muscle RNA Applied Biosystems Ambion product AM7982 is incubated in Calf Intestinal Phosphatase 10 U l and CIP buffer 0.5 mM Tris HCl pH 8.5 and 1 mM EDTA for 1 hour at 50 C. followed by a standard phenol chloroform RNA extraction. This reaction will yield isolated decapped total skeletal muscle mRNA.

The decapped total skeletal muscle mRNA is added to Tobacco Acid Pyrophosphatase 0.5 U l in TAP buffer 0.5M sodium acetate pH 6.0 10 mM EDTA 1 mercapthoethanol and 0.1 Triton X 100 and incubated for 37 C. for 1 hour. This step is followed by a standard phenol chloroform RNA extraction yielding decapped dephosphorylated total skeletal muscle mRNA.

The decapped dephosphorylated total skeletal muscle mRNA is added to GeneRacer RNA Oligo 25 g and incubated for 65 C. for 5 minutes to relax the mRNA structure. The reaction is then briefly chilled on ice then added to a ligation mixture 10 mM ATP T4 RNA Ligase 5 U l 330 mM Tris acetate pH 7.8 660 mM potassium acetate 100 mM magnesium acetate and 5 mM DTT. This step is followed by a standard phenol chloroform RNA extraction yielding GeneRacer Oligo ligated total skeletal muscle mRNA.

Reverse transcription of ligated mRNA using myonectin specific primers. This step utilizes Superscript III Reverse Transcriptase Module Invitrogen product 45 0167 in combination with predesigned myonectin specific primers sequences listed below . Product from step 3 is added to a mixture of dNTP s in 1 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 5 forward GeneRacer and myonectin specific primer 89R8. Given the primers used this reaction should yield a cDNA product which is specific to the 5 end of the human myonectin. The reaction mixture is incubated at 65 C. for 5 minutes to relax the mRNA structure then briefly chilled on ice. Next the following components are added to the reaction 0.1 mM DTT SuperScript III Reverse Transcriptase 200 U l 50 mM mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 75 mM potassium chloride and 3 mM magnesium chloride. The reaction is incubated at 55 C. for 45 minutes to reverse transcribe the mRNA then the enzymatic activity is deactived at 70 C. for 15 minutes. RNase H 2 U reaction is then added and reaction incubated at 37 C. for 20 minutes to remove remaining mRNA. This step yields a cDNA sequence for the myonectin with the GeneRacer Oligo sequence at the beginning and ending at 660 base pairs where the verified 89R8 primer site lies. The next steps are used to amplify and validate the myonectin cDNA.

The cDNA product is added to a mixture containing 5 Forward primers 10 M 89R8 primers 10 M and Platinum PCR Supermix Invitrogen product 11306 016 . This reaction is cycled using the PCR reaction and should yield enough cDNA for further analysis.

Recombinant protein injection. Experiments were earned out as previously described . 2008 supra . 2010 285 39691 39701 . Briefly food was removed in the morning around 8 9 am 2 hours prior to recombinant protein injection drinking water was supplied for the duration of the experiment. Recombinant myonectin 5 g g body weight or the equivalent volume of vehicle buffer 20 mM Hepes pH 8.0 containing 135 mM NaCl was injected intraperitoneally into 10 week old C57BL 6 mice n 6 . Serum samples were harvested by tail bleeding at baseline time 0 and every hour for 5 hours post injection and separated using Microvette CB 300 Sarstedt . Glucose concentrations were also measured using a glucometer BD Pharmingen when tail blood was collected at the indicated time points.

Isolation of skeletal muscle and liver. Mice were sacrificed and soleus and plantaris muscles and livers were immediately isolated and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen. Homogenized muscle cell lysates were prepared in lysis buffer TPER Thermo Scientific containing protease and phosphatase inhibitor cocktails Sigma . Protein content was quantified using Coomasie Plus protein reagent Thermo Scientific .

Mouse C2C12 myocytes and mouse 3T3 L1 pre adipocytes and rat H4IIE hepatocytes were cultured and differentiated into myotubes adipocytes and liver respectively as previously described . 2011 supra . 2010 . supra . Differentiated cells were stimulated with insulin 100 M AICAR 1 mM or forskolin 1 mM for the indicated time and total RNAs were isolated and subjected to quantitative real time PCR analysis for myonectin expression. To induce autophagy cells were placed in autophagy media Dulbccco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM containing 0.1 BSA Sigma but lacking glucose L glutamine and sodium pyruvate for 5 or 24 h. For each experiment autophagy induction was verified by comparing samples to control cells incubated with DMEM containing 10 FBS Invitrogen . In all cell culture treatments 5 g mL of recombinant myonectin protein was used.

Fatty Acid uptake assay. Cells were washed twice in PBS and placed in stimulation media 0.5 BSA for 3T3 L1 adipocytes and 0.1 BSA for H4IIE hepatocytes in high glucose fatty acid free DMEM at 37 C. and 5 COin an incubator for 2 hours. Next media was changed to the same DMEM with 0.5 and 0.1 respectively fatty acid free BSA containing vehicle control recombinant myonectin 5 g ml or insulin 50 M overnight. Cells were transferred to a 37 C. water bath where 1 Ci well in a 24 well format of H labelled palmitate dissolved previously for 1 hour in the fatty acid free BSA DMEM was added for 0 30 or 60 seconds. Media was then aspirated out and cells were washed twice in cold PBS. Cells were lysed in 10 SDS and transferred to a scintillation vial. Radioactive counts were measured and normalized to protein concentration of final cell lysate.

Palmitate and glucose treatment. Differentiated mouse C2C12 myotubes were washed twice with PBS followed by addition of 0.1 fatty acid free BSA Sigma in serum and glucose free DMEM for 2 hours. Next the same solution was added with or without 25 mM glucose or 1 M palmitic acid. The palmitic acid and fatty acid free BSA mixture was made 1 hr prior to addition to cells and kept at 37 C. to completely dissolve into solution. Total RNA was harvested from cells treated for 18 hours.

Running wheel induced exercise. C57BL 6 male mice were placed in a cage with or without a running wheel for a period of 2 weeks. They were given ad libitum food access. At the end of the two week period mice were fasted overnight 12 hours and serum and skeletal muscle were harvested for analysis.

Serum and blood chemistry analysis. Mouse serum samples were harvested by tail bleed and separated using Microvette CB 300 Sarstedt . Glucose concentration was determined at time of collection with a glucometer BD biosciences . Serum triglycerides Thermofisher NEFA Wako and insulin Millipore were determined using commercially available kits.

Quantitative real time PCR analysis. The tissue expression profile of myonectin was determined using mouse tissue cDNA panels Clontech . Otherwise total RNAs were isolated from tissues or cell lines using Trizol and revenue transcribed using Superscript II RNase H reverse Transcriptase Invitrogen . Myonectin specific primers used were 5 TGCTTGGATGCTGTTCGTCAA 3 SEQ ID NO 8 and 5 CAGATGGGATAAAGGGGCCTG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 . Quantitative real time PCR analyses were performed on an Applied Biosystems Prism 7500 Sequence Detection System. Samples were analyzed in 25 L reactions according to the standard protocol provided in the SyBR Green PCR Master Mix Applied Biosystems . Myonectin expression was normalized to 18 S rRNA in each sample. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table SI. Data were normalized to Act in and expressed as relative mRNA levels using the Ct method Nat Protoc 3 1101 1108 2008 .

Immunoblot Analysis. Serum samples were diluted 1 20 in SDS loading buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 2 SDS w v 6 glycerol w v 1 2 mercaptoethanol v v and 0.01 bromophenol blue w v and were separated on 10 Bis Tris NuPAGE gel Invitrogen . Each well was loaded with an equivalent of 1 serum. For skeletal muscle lysates 10 g of protein were loaded and separated on a 10 Bis Tris NuPAGE gel. Fractionated proteins were then transferred to Protran BA8 nitrocellulose membranes Whatman blocked in 2 non fat milk for 1 hour and probed with primary antibodies in the presence of 2 non fat milk overnight. Immunoblots were washed 3 10 minutes each in PBS containing 0.1 Tween 20 and incubated with horseradish perioxidase conjugated secondary antibody Amersham Biosciences 1 5000 for 1 hour. Blots were washed 3 10 minutes each in PBS containing 0.1 Tween 20 developed in ECL reagent Millipore for 2 5 minutes and visualized with MultiImage III FluorChem Q Alpha Innotech . Quantifications of signal intensity were performed using Alphaview Software Alpha Innotech .

Native gel electrophoresis. Non denaturing non reducing gel electrophoresis was carried out as previously described 5 e12765 .

Adipose tissue Iipolysis. Experiments were performed as previously described 28 . Food was removed from mice 2 hours prior to the isolation of epididymal fat pads. Fat pads were cut into 20 mg sections and placed in 500 l per piece of DMEM high glucose containing 0.5 fatty acid free BSA with or without 1 M isoproterenol or purified myonectin 5 g ml . Tissue samples in media were kept in a 24 well cell culture dish at 37 C. and 5 CO. Media were collected at various time points and NEFA content was measured using an absorption based HR series NEFA kit Wako Diagnostics .

Autophagy assay. Protocol was adapted from Ogier Denis et al. 1996 to assess the autophagic degradation of long lived proteins 271 28593 28600 . Briefly H4IIE hepatocytes in 12 well plates 80 confluence were incubated for 18 h in complete media DMEM containing 5 mM glucose Penicillin Streptomycin and 10 FBS supplemented with 0.2 Ci mL of L C Valine Moravek Biochemicals Brea Calif. . Cells were then washed 3 times in PBS and placed in DMEM lacking glucose L glutamine and sodium pyruvate but containing 0.1 BSA and 0.5 mM cold valine supplemented with either 10 FBS vehicle Hepes buffer 5 g mL myonectin or myonectin plus 10 ng mL FRAP mTOR inhibitor. Short lived proteins were degraded within 1 h of incubation at which time medium was removed and replaced with the same type of fresh medium. Cells were then incubated for an additional 4 h after which medium was collected. Cells were washed 3 with PBS scraped and collected in PBS. A matched volume containing 10 trichloroacetic acid and 1 phosphotungstic acid was added to cells which were then centrifuged at 4 C. at 600 g for 10 min. Cell medium and the acid soluble fraction of cell lysate were combined and placed in a scintillation vial containing 2 mL of Soluene 350. The acid insoluble fraction of the cell lysate was re suspended in PBS and placed in a separate scintillation vial containing 2 mL of Soluene 350. Percent protein degradation was calculated by dividing counts in the medium plus the acid soluble fraction of cell lysate with counts in the acid insoluble fraction of the call lysate.

Statistical analysis. Comparisons were performed using two tailed Student s t tests. Values were considered to be significant at p

Identification of myonectin CTRP15 protein. A previously undescribed member of the CTRP family from mouse skeletal muscle was cloned on the basis of sequence homology shared between their C1q domains . This novel cDNA SEQ ID NO 1 and its encoded protein was designated myonectin CTRP15 . The deduced mouse myonectin protein SEQ ID NO 2 consists of five domains a signal peptide for secretion an N terminal domain 1 NTD1 a short collagen domain with 6 Gly X Y repeats an N terminal domain 2 NTD2 and a C terminal C1q TNF like domain. This protein consists of 340 amino acids and contains four Cys residues and four potential N linked glycosylation sites that conform to the consensus sequence N X Ser Thr . 2005 280 3121 3124 . The 7.8 kb mouse myonectin gene is located on chromosome 1 contig NC 000002.11 and contains 8 exons.

Expression of myonectin CTRP15 protein in myotubes and skeletal muscle. In mice myonectin transcript was predominantly expressed by skeletal muscle with significantly lower expression in other tissues . Consistent with preferential skeletal muscle expression myonectin was greatly induced in differentiated mouse C2C12 myotubes compared to undifferentiated myoblasts suggesting that myonectin is produced by skeletal muscle fiber and not satellite cells. These data indicate that myonectin is a novel myokine.

Myonectin CTRP15 protein forms disulfide linked oligomers and heteromeric complexes with other CTRPs. Consistent with the presence of a signal peptide myonectin was robustly secreted into the conditioned medium when expressed in vitro . Secreted myonectin contains N linked glycans treatment with PNGase F an N glycosidase reduced the apparent molecular weight of myonectin on immunoblot confirming that one or more of the conserved Asn residues are glycosylated. In the absence of reducing agent ME myonectin migrated as a dimer on immunoblot indicating the presence of intermolecular disulfide bond. On a non reducing non denaturing native gel immunoblot myonectin existed as a multimeric complex revealing its higher order oligomeric structure . Formation of oligomers is a biochemical feature shared by all CTRPs and proteins of the C1q family. Further heteromeric complex formation between different CTRPs has been previously demonstrated suggesting a potential mechanism to generate an expanded repertoire of functionally distinct complexes. Similarly when co expressed in mammalian cells HEK 293T myonectin formed heteromeric complexes with CTRP2 and CTRP12 and to a lesser extent with CTRP5 and CTRP10 .

Myonectin CTRP15 protein circulates in blood. To examine the endogenous expression of myonectin and to address whether myonectin is a plasma protein and hence may function as an endocrine factor we generated an anti peptide antibody that can specifically recognize mouse myonectin secreted from the conditioned medium of transfected cells . In mouse skeletal muscle lysate endogenous myonectin was detected in multiple isoforms with apparent molecular weights between 40 50 kDa on immunoblot likely reflecting different degrees of glycosylation due to the presence of multiple conserved Asn residues . Western blot analysis of mouse serum revealed the presence of myonectin confirming that it is a secreted protein that circulates in blood. Using purified recombinant myonectin as a standard serum concentration of myonectin in ad libitum wild type 12 week old male mice was determined to be approximately 0.4 g ml .

Regulation of myonectin CTRP15 protein expression in myotubes. Expression of myonectin under different cellular conditions was examined to address whether factors that are known to regulate skeletal muscle physiology also affect myonectin expression. Raising intracellular levels of cAMP by forskolin and epinephrine or calcium by ionomycin substantially induced expression of myonectin transcript in mouse C2C12 myotubes . In contrast insulin and AICAR an AMPK activator had no effect on myonectin expression in myotubes .

Exercise increases myonectin CTRP15 mRNA expression and circulating levels. The in vitro results of myonectin expression in myotubes suggest that exercise induced rises in intracellular calcium levels may also upregulate myonectin expression in intact skeletal muscle. Indeed myonectin expression was significantly induced in soleus a predominantly slow twitch muscle fiber and plantaris a predominantly fast twitch muscle fiber of mice given access to a running wheel for 2 weeks . Consistent with enhanced mRNA expression in skeletal muscle of mice subjected to voluntary exercise circulating levels of myonectin also increased suggesting a potential role of myonectin in exercise induced physiology.

Metabolic state regulates myonectin CTRP15 protein expression and circulating levels. Given that exercise induces myonectin expression in skeletal muscle the issue of whether short and long term changes in nutritional metabolic state also regulate myonectin expression and circulating levels was investigated. Surprisingly an overnight fast greatly suppressed myonectin expression but a 2 hour refeeding period following an overnight fast dramatically upregulated its mRNA expression in skeletal muscle . Intriguingly refeeding induced myonectin mRNA expression to a much greater extent in soleus than in plantaris muscle fiber of both male and female mice data not shown . Consistent with the mRNA data fasting reduced but refeeding substantially increased circulating levels of myonectin . Interestingly fasted females also tended to have higher circulating levels of myonectin compared to male mice a trend which persisted upon refeeding data not shown .

In a separate cohort of mice it was determined whether the carbohydrate or lipid component within the diet was responsible for the induction of myonectin expression and secretion in the fasted re fed state. Overnight fasted male mice were gavaged with a bolus of glucose or lipid corn oil . Sera were collected from these animals 2 hours post gavage and subjected to Western blot analysis. Both glucose and lipid were equally potent at increasing circulating levels of myonectin in the re fed state . These data raised the possibility that the presence of nutrient carbohydrate or lipid in the gastrointestinal tract induced the secretion of a gut derived hormone e.g. incretins such as GLP 1 and GIP that in turn upregulated myonectin expression and secretion from the skeletal muscle. To rule out this possibility differentiated C2C12 myotubes cultured in serum free media were starved of glucose and lipid and then stimulated with glucose or free fatty acid palmitate . In the absence of any potential gut derived hormones both glucose and free fatty acid were able to acutely upregulate myonectin expression in vitro . These data suggest that nutrient flux through muscle cells may directly regulate myonectin expression.

Myonectin CTRP15 protein expression and circulating levels are reduced in the obese state. To test if myonectin expression and circulating levels are responsive to long term chronic alteration in whole body energy balance the mRNA and serum levels in DIO mice were examined. As compared to mice fed an isocaloric matched low fat diet mice fed a high fat diet had lower myonectin mRNA and serum levels indicating that obesity induced alteration in energy balance may be linked to dysregulation of myonectin mediated processes in the obese state.

Recombinant myonectin CTRP15 protein administration lowers circulating free fatty acids levels. To address the possible metabolic function of myonectin in vivo purified recombinant myonectin was administered to wild type male mice. Due to multiple posttranslational modifications glycosylation and oligomerization recombinant myonectin was produced in mammalian cells to ensure biologically active protein. When injected intraperitoneally into mice at a dose of 5 g g body weight circulating levels of recombinant myonectin reached their maximum at 1 hour and gradually declined over time . At the injected dose we could raise serum levels of myonectin by 60 70 above endogenous steady state levels . Elevating the circulating level of myonectin did not result in lowering of blood glucose over time when compared to mice injected with vehicle control data not shown . In contrast a relatively modest rise in serum myonectin levels was sufficient to lower by 30 NEFA levels over time relative to vehicle injected controls . However no significant difference was observed in serum triacylglyecrol levels between the two groups of mice . These data suggest a potential role of myonectin in regulating systemic fatty acid metabolism.

Recombinant myonectin CTRP15 protein promotes fatty acid uptake but not adipose tissue lipolysis. Myonectin can lower circulating NEFA levels via two possible mechanisms suppressing adipose tissue lipolysis or promoting fatty acid uptake into cells. Treatment of primary adipose tissue epididymal fat pads ex vivo with recombinant myonectin alone did not increase lipolysis data not shown . Isoproterenol a potent activator of lipolysis robustly induced adipose tissue lipolysis but combined administration of recombinant myonectin did not further enhance isoproterenol induced lipolysis data not shown . Thus the suppression of adipose tissue lipolysis is likely not the mechanism by which myonectin lowers serum NEFA levels in mice.

Next it was investigated whether myonectin promotes fatty acid uptake in differentiated mouse 3T3 L1 adipocytes. Treatment of adipocytes with a saturating dose of insulin 50 M led to a maximum 50 increase in fatty acid uptake . Similarly treatment of adipocytes with recombinant myonectin 5 g ml also enhanced fatty acid uptake to the same extent as insulin. While a lower dose of myonectin 2 g ml resulted in a more modest increase 20 in lipid uptake a higher dose of myonectin 10 g ml did not further enhance lipid uptake in adipocytes beyond 50 suggesting that 5 g ml likely represents a saturating dose that results in maximum lipid uptake data not shown . Several proteins such as CD36 FATP1 Cav1 and Fabp4 are known to play important roles in fatty acid uptake into cells. Quantitative real time PCR analysis showed that expression of these genes was upregulated in adipocytes by recombinant myonectin . To determine whether myonectin mediated enhancement of lipid uptake is specific to adipocytes the effect of myonectin on lipid uptake was also tested in rat H4IIB hepatocytes. A modest 25 but consistent increase in fatty acid uptake into hepatocytes stimulated with myonectin 5 g mL was observed an effect similar to cells treated with a saturating dose of insulin 50 M . Enhanced lipid uptake is coupled to increased expression of Cav1 and Fabp1 in H4IIE hepatocytes . Together these results indicate that myonectin promotes lipid uptake into adipocytes and hepatocytes via transcriptional up regulation of genes involved in fatty acid uptake.

Myonectin expression is repressed by starvation and induced by nutrient supplementation. It was previously shown that myonectin expression and circulating levels are highly upregulated in mice by re feeding after a 12 h fast. However a prolonged 24 h food deprivation considered starvation in mice is necessary to observe pronounced effects on liver autophagy 15 1101 1111 2004 . To evaluate changes in myonectin expression during starvation mice were fasted for 24 h and injected with a bolus of glucose or saline. A striking increase in myonectin mRNA 8 fold and circulating protein levels 5 fold was observed when starved mice were given a bolus of glucose compared to a bolus of saline A B . Correspondingly myonectin mRNA expression was markedly reduced in differentiated C2C12 myotubes when cells were subjected to serum deprivation C mimicking starvation induced autophagy J Biol Chem 275 29900 29906 200 . These results indicate that myonectin expression is repressed by starvation and induced by nutrient availability in cultured skeletal muscle cells and in mice.

Myonectin suppresses the expression of autophagy genes in H4IIE hepatocytes and mouse liver. Expression of key autophagy genes in mouse liver is known to be altered in response to nutrient deprivation. Autophagy related protein ATG7 is required for starvation induced protein degradation in the liver whereas ATG5 and ATG12 are critical components needed for the formation of autophagasome precursor. A strong induction of Atg5 Atg7 and Atg12 genes was observed when H4IIE hepatocytes were serum starved for 5 h . Treatment with recombinant myonectin protein was sufficient to repress the induction of Atg genes in response to serum deprivation . To confirm our results in vivo mice were fasted for 24 h and injected with a bolus of glucose vehicle or myonectin 1 g g body weight . Recombinant protein administration resulted in a 4 fold increase in the circulating levels of myonectin 10 min following protein injection compared to saline injection. As expected starved mice injected with control vehicle showed a significant up regulation of Atg5 and Atg12 expression in mouse liver and this induction was suppressed when starved mice were given a bolus of glucose . Recombinant myonectin protein administration to starved mice also suppressed Atg5 and Atg12 induction in mouse liver to the same extent as glucose injection . These results suggest that myonectin regulates the expression of key autophagy genes in cultured hepatocytes and liver in response to nutrient availability.

Myonectin inhibits LC3 lipidation and autophagasome dependent p62 degradation. Lipidation of microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 LC3 is a critical initial step in autophagy leading to subsequent aggregation and autophagasome formation. These autophagasomes contain p62 SQSTM1 protein complexes which are eventually degraded by cellular autophagy. Thus the ratio of non lipidated to lipidated LC3 and p62 degradation serve as markers for early and late stages of autophagy respectively. H4IIE hepatocytes deprived of serum for 5 h activated autophagy as indicated by a marked decrease 50 in the proportion of non lipidated indicated by LC3 I to lipidated indicated by LC3 II forms of LC3 when compared to cells cultured in the presence of serum . Cells administered recombinant myonectin protein potently suppressed the initiation of autophagy to the same extent as cells cultured in the presence of serum as indicated by the complete abolishment of starvation induced increase in LC3 lipidation ratio of LC3 I LC3 II .

To assess late stage autophagasome dependent protein degradation H4IIE hepatocytes were cultured for 24 h in the presence of serum serum starved or serum starved in the presence of recombinant myonectin protein and probed for p62 protein levels. As expected serum starvation significantly reduced the total protein levels of p62 relative to cells cultured in the presence of serum . Recombinant myonectin protein treatment essentially reversed this process in starved cells as indicated by the complete inhibition of starvation induced p62 degradation . To ensure that effects of myonectin on cellular autophagy are physiologically relevant in vivo we subjected mice to a 24 h fast then administered a bolus of glucose vehicle or recombinant myonectin protein. Consistent with our in vitro results starved mice injected with vehicle control activated autophagy as indicated by significantly greater LC3 lipidation and p62 degradation in the liver compared to starved mice injected with a bolus of glucose D . Importantly myonectin administration largely suppressed starvation induced LC3 lipidation and p62 degradation in the liver to an extent similar to glucose administration D . These results indicate that myonectin inhibits early stage autophagasome formation as well as late stage autophagy dependent p62 degradation in vitro and in vivo.

Myonectin activates the Akt mTOR pathway to suppress autophagy. We next investigated what signaling pathways are activated by myonectin in cells to block autophagy. H4IIE hepatocytes were serum starved for 1 h to reduce background signaling then treated with vehicle control or recombinant myonectin protein for 5 15 30 or 60 min. Relative to vehicle treated cells myonectin dramatically induced the phosphorylation of three key autophagy regulatory enzymes . Phosphorylation of UNC 51 like kinase 1 ULK1 at Ser 757 disrupts its association with AMP activated protein kinase AMPK and abolishes AMPK mediated autophagasome formation. Myonectin robustly induced phosphorylation of Ser 757 on ULK1. In addition myonectin also induced the phosphorylation and activation of protein kinase B Akt Thr 308 and p70 S6 kinase Thr 389 . Activation of Akt and p70 S6 kinase elicits an mTORC1 dependent suppression of cellular autophagy.

Inhibition of mTOR signaling abrogates myonectin ability to suppress autophagy. To confirm that myonectin acts via the Akt mTOR pathway to inhibit autophagy H4IIE hepatocytes were treated with recombinant myonectin protein in the presence or absence of FRAP a potent rapamycin analog to pharmacologically inhibit mTOR function. Serum starved cells treated with vehicle and FRAP activated autophagy as indicated by greater LC3 lipidation and p62 degradation and these processes were suppressed by myonectin treatment C . FRAP completely abolished the ability of myonectin to inhibit starvation induced LC3 lipidation and greatly reduced its ability to prevent p62 degradation when simultaneously given to cells C .

LC3 lipidation and p62 degradation represent are useful and informative markers for early and late stage of autophagy. However to functionally verify our results we used a biochemical assay to quantify the degradation of long lived proteins in cells when autophagy is fully engaged. To do so H4IIE hepatocytes were pulsed with C labeled valine to radiolabel intracellular proteins before subjecting the cells to starvation. As expected serum starved cells had a 2 fold higher level of total bulk protein degradation compared to cells cultured in the presence of serum . Recombinant myonectin protein treatment largely abolished starvation induced protein degradation. No significant differences were observed between cells starved in the presence or absence of FRAP indicating that mTOR inhibition does not further enhance autophagy upon serum deprivation. FRAP treatment however substantially inhibited the ability of myonectin to suppress starvation induced cellular protein degradation . These results show that myonectin modulates cellular autophagy via the Akt mTOR signaling pathway.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

