---

title: Frequency hopped frequency modulation spread spectrum (FHFMSS) multiple accessing communication systems and methods
abstract: Various embodiments of the invention are directed to frequency hopped frequency modulation spread spectrum (FHFMSS) multiple accessing systems and methods. For example, various embodiments of the FHFMSS transmitter may utilize an architecture comprised of a baseband modulation subsystem, a code generation subsystem for generating a multiplicity M code vector sequences, a frequency synthesizer for generating a multiplicity M periodic waveforms, a frequency modulator for generation of a frequency hopped frequency modulation (FHFM) waveform , and a spread spectrum modulator. Various embodiments of the FHFMSS receiver may comprise of a subsystem for generation of the FHFM waveform, a spread spectrum demodulator, a symbol detector, and a baseband demodulation subsystem.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432079&OS=09432079&RS=09432079
owner: 
number: 09432079
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150610
---
Broadband wireless systems are in a rapidly evolutionary phase in terms of the development of various technologies development of various applications deployment of various services and generation of many important standards in the field. Although there are many factors to be considered in the design of these systems the key factors have been the bandwidth utilization efficiency due to the limited bandwidth allocation flexibility in operation and robustness of the communication link in the presence of various disturbances while achieving the specified performance. At present the OFDM and spread spectrum techniques have been adapted in many wireless communication standards such as the World wide Interoperability for Microwave ACCESS Wimax digital audio broadcasting DAB digital video broadcasting terrestrial DVB T Long Term Evolution LTE Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS or Code Division Multiple Accessing CDMA 2000 Wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA standard IS95 IEEE 802.11 Wireless Local Area Network WLAN IEEE 802.15 Wireless Private Area Network WPAN etc.

One of the advantages of the OFDM system is the mitigation of a major source of distortion present in high data rate wireless communication links namely the inter symbol interference ISI achieved by increasing the symbol period by the use of multiple carrier transmission. However the use of a large number of carriers based on the orthogonality property in the OFDM system makes the performance of the system very sensitive to any carrier frequency offsets introduced for example by the Doppler shifts encountered in the wireless channels. The proper operation of the OFDM system requires means for precise estimate of the Doppler that may be different for different carriers in the frequency selective fading channel and means to mitigate such a Doppler effect from the received OFDM signal. Another important problem arising with the use of a relatively large number N of carriers used in the OFDM signal is a relatively high peak to average power ratio resulting in a much reduced radio frequency RF power amplifier efficiency. Various methods exist in the prior art to solve these problem.

In multiple accessing mode of the OFDM system wherein relatively narrow band OFDM channels are assigned to various users in a mobile communication network the frequency selective fading of the communication channel may cause severe fading of some of the user signals resulting in frequent hand offs or call drop for such users in a mobile communication network. The solution to such a problem may be the transmission of the user signal over multiple OFDM channels for providing a diversity gain and or transmission at a much reduced data rate. However such a solution results in a reduced capacity of the OFDM system. Another problem with the OFDM system is that the narrow band signals of various users have no protection against any intended or unintended interference. Any significant narrowband interference in any of the OFDM channels may disrupt communication to users assigned such channels.

Spread spectrum systems provide protection against narrow band interference and possess various other desirable properties such as graceful degradation with increased number of active multiple access users etc. There are mainly two types of spread spectrum systems in use in the mobile communication networks viz. the direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS system and the frequency hopped spread spectrum FHSS system. In the DSSS system the baseband modulated signal is modulated in a second stage by a pseudo random binary sequence resulting in a spreading of the signal bandwidth that results in the protection against narrow band interference. However in the wireless networks due to the increased self noise in the system resulting from multipath propagation the DSSS system may be more suited for a relatively short range multiple accessing application or long range point to point communication by using separation of the multipath components using or example a rake receiver. In the FHSS system the carrier frequency of the baseband modulated signal is varied according to some pseudo random PN pattern or sequence that varies at the information symbol rate or a integer multiple thereof in the fast FHSS system and results in the spreading of the signal bandwidth that depends upon the number of frequencies in the pseudo random pattern. The FHSS system may offer more protection against multipath over relatively longer distances compared to the DSSS system.

In the FHSS system different users are assigned different pseudo random frequency sequences. A disadvantage of the FHSS system may be that whenever the frequencies of more than one PN sequence coincide that results in a collision whereby the symbols during such a collision period are erased placing a floor on the probability of symbol error irrespective of the signal to noise ratio or other parameters. Similarly the presence of narrow band interference around any one of the hop frequencies may result in the erasure of the symbol being transmitted during that hop. For example if 2 out of 100 hop frequencies are interfered with the probability of symbol error will be lower bonded by 0.02. This is different compared to the DSSS system wherein the narrow band interference is spread out in a wide band in the despreader at the receiver causing a relatively small degradation in the probability of symbol error. Moreover the FHSS system requires a frequency synthesizer for the generation of pseudo random frequency sequence capable of generating a relatively large number of frequencies with relatively high switching speeds equal to the information symbol rate or a integer multiple thereof with relatively low noise and a relatively high precision frequencies present in the pseudo random frequency sequence.

Kumar teaches an orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing OFCM spread spectrum system in Orthogonal Frequency Chirp Multiple Accessing Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 244 774 2014 wherein the baseband modulated signals are modulated by a time varying frequency waveforms such that an orthogonality is maintained among the various multiple accessing signals. The OFCM system taught by Kumar is a spectrally efficient and provides protection against both the interference and frequency selective fading due to multipath propagation. The OFCM system however may not provide any privacy protection to the multiple accessing users. As the time varying frequency waveforms are delayed versions of a common waveform whose frequency varies linearly with time an unauthorized user can easily receive the baseband information symbols intended for the other multiple accessing users.

There is a strong motivation to come up with systems and methods that achieve the various advantages of the prior art spread spectrum systems while overcoming various possible weaknesses therein. The frequency hopped frequency modulation spread spectrum FHFMSS system of the invention provides protection against deep fades in some segments of the spectrum and against narrowband interference similar to that of the DSSS system in that the impact of any narrow band interference is distributed throughout the spread bandwidth after the despreading at the receiver rather than being concentrated in a few symbols as in the FHSS system of prior art placing a floor on the probability of symbol error. In the FHFMSS system the wideband Frequency Hopped Frequency Modulation FHFM spreading waveform is generated by Frequency Modulation FM modulation of a multiplicity of the periodic waveforms with time varying frequencies determined by pseudo random sequences. The FHFM waveform in turn modulates the baseband modulated signal. A deterministic short sequence of frequency pairs has been previously used in the construction of a command destruct code in the space lift range system.

Unlike the FHSS system of the prior art the spectrum of the FHFMSS signal occupies a wide bandwidth during any symbol period. Deep fading in a few segments of the wide band spectrum may not result in any significant performance degradation to any of the users. In the prior art FHSS system the number of hop frequencies and the period of the pseudo random PN sequences may be both equal to the bandwidth spreading factor that is the ratio of the FHSS signal bandwidth and the baseband modulated signal bandwidth with the switching speed of the frequency synthesizer equal to or an integer multiple of the baseband information symbol rate. In the FHFMSS system of the invention the various parameters such as the number of hop frequencies the period of the PN code the bandwidth spreading factor and the switching speed of the frequency synthesizer may be selected independently so as to minimize the transmitter complexity while achieving the desired spread spectrum signal bandwidth. The FHFMSS has the advantage of not requiring a relatively very large number of hop frequencies and high switching speeds of the frequency synthesizer in the FHSS system of the prior art.

The FHFMSS system of the invention also inherits various advantages of the prior FHSS system in that it provides robustness against multipath propagation interference and even a better privacy protection compared to both the DSSS and FHSS system. In the FHFMSS system of the invention individual user signals with modulations such as MPSK Multi Frequency Shift Keying are constant envelope signals inheriting the property from the frequency modulated FM signals with an advantage in terms of requiring relatively low amplifier back off in the user to base station transmission in a mobile communication network. Unlike the prior art DS spread spectrum systems the power spectral density of the FHFMSS system of the invention does not have any spectral side lobes. These and other advantages of the FHFMSS system will be evident from the following specifications.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to methods and systems for frequency hopped frequency modulation spread spectrum FHFMSS transmitters and receivers for multiple accessing communication over wireless fading channels. For example various embodiments of the transmitter may utilize an architecture comprised of a baseband modulation subsystem for receiving and modulating the input data providing the in general complex valued information baseband symbols a code generation subsystem for generating a multiplicity M code vector sequences a multi frequency synthesizer for the generation of the multiplicity M sequences of periodic waveforms a complex baseband frequency modulator FM for providing a frequency hopped frequency modulation FHFM waveform a spread spectrum modulator for modulating the information baseband symbols sequence by the FHFM waveform providing the baseband FHFMSS frequency hopped frequency modulation spread spectrum signal.

Various embodiments of the FHFMSS transmitter of the invention may be further comprised of a baseband to IF converter modulating the baseband FHFMSS signal by the IF local oscillator in phase and quadrature signals for providing the IF band pass FHFMSS signal and an RF stages unit comprised of an up converter an RF band pass filter and power amplifier for providing the RF band pass FHFMSS signal.

In various embodiments of the invention the code generation subsystem for generating a multiplicity M code vector sequences may be comprised of a multiplicity M feedback shift registers of length Nwith Kof the Nstages outputs of the feedback shift registers comprising the elements of the multiplicity M code vectors. In various embodiments of the invention different feedback connections in the feedback registers may correspond to distinct minimal polynomials of degree Nresulting in a period of the code vector sequences equal to 2 1.

In various embodiments of the invention a multi frequency synthesizer for the generation of the multiplicity M sequences of periodic waveforms may comprise of a multiplexer for time multiplexing the multiplicity M code vector sequences a code conversion unit for generating a sequence of periodic waveforms indices and a time multiplexed direct digital frequency synthesizer TMDDFS for generation of the periodic waveforms corresponding to the indices provided by the code conversion unit. In various alternative embodiments of the invention the multi frequency synthesizer unit may generate an integral version t of the t waveforms. In various embodiments of the invention the t waveforms may be sinusoidal waveforms of some specified frequencies that may be integer multiples of a fundamental frequency f. In various alternative embodiments of the invention the frequency synthesizer may be an indirect frequency synthesizer based on phase lock loops a direct analog frequency synthesizers and the like.

In various digital embodiments of the invention the complex baseband frequency modulator unit may be comprised of a multiplicity M scalar multipliers for scaling the discrete time waveforms n n denotes time index generated by the frequency synthesizer unit by a set of modulation indices an adder for adding the scaled waveforms a rate converter for an up conversion of the sampling rate of the resulting sum and an exponentiation unit for providing a frequency hopped frequency modulation FHFM waveform to the spread spectrum modulator.

In various embodiments of the invention the time multiplexed direct digital frequency synthesizer TMDDFS may be comprised of a multiplicity M frequency registers for storing the waveform indices that may be equal to the normalized frequencies of the of the sinusoidal waveforms a multiplicity M phase accumulators for modulo integer Naccumulating the corresponding normalized frequencies and a ROM memory wherein the sampled waveforms are stored. In various embodiments of the invention wherein the waveforms are sinusoidal waveforms with frequencies that are multiples of a fundamental frequency f the ROM may store the sampled version of only the sinusoidal waveform of frequency fsampled at an appropriate sampling rate. The integer Nmay be equal to the number of samples in the ROM.

In various alternative embodiments of the invention the code generation subsystem may be comprised of a feedback shift registers of length Nwith Kof the Nstages outputs of the feedback shift registers comprising the elements of the first of the multiplicity M code vectors with the other M 1 code vectors obtained by feed forward circuits operating on the Nstages outputs of the feedback shift register.

In various embodiments the baseband modulator may be one out of the group comprised of the Multiple Quadrature Amplitude Modulation MQAM modulator the Multiple Phase Shift Keying MPSK modulator the Multiple Amplitude Shift Keying MASK modulator or any more general modulator architecture. The baseband modulator may also be comprised of error correction encoders and interleavers.

Various embodiments of the FHFMSS receiver of the invention may utilize an architecture comprised of a receive antenna for receiving the radio Frequency RF band pass FHFMSS signal an RF front stage unit comprised of an RF filter amplifier and down converter for providing the Intermediate Frequency IF band pass FHFMSS signal an IF to complex baseband converter providing the baseband FHFMSS signal a code generation subsystem for generation of a multiplicity M code vectors a multi frequency synthesizer for the generation of the multiplicity M sequences of periodic waveforms a complex baseband frequency modulator FM for providing a frequency hopped frequency modulation FHFM waveform a spread spectrum demodulator for despreading the baseband FHFMSS signal by the FHFM waveform providing the despread signal a symbol detector and a baseband demodulator. The symbol detector may be comprised of an integrator and a decision device wherein the integrator may average out an integer Nsamples of the despread signal inputting the result to the decision device.

The decision device in the symbol detector detects the information baseband symbols on the basis of the signal constellation diagram of the baseband modulator at the FHFMSS transmitter providing the detected symbol to the baseband demodulator unit.

The baseband demodulator may map the detected baseband symbols into groups of m digits wherein m log M assumed to be an integer using the inverse of the map from group of m binary digits into 1 out of M possible information baseband symbols used in the baseband modulator at the FHFMSS transmitter. In various embodiments of the invention the baseband demodulator may also be comprised of an error correction decoder and a deinterleaver.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and sets forth the best modes contemplated by the inventor of carrying out his invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the generic principles of the present invention have been defined herein specifically to provide systems and methods for frequency hopped frequency modulation spread spectrum FHFMSS multiple accessing communication systems.

Referring to the baseband modulator segments the user input data d m into groups of m binary valued data bits and maps each of the groups of the m binary data bits into one of the M 2 in general complex valued information baseband symbols s m with m selected equal to an integer greater than or equal to 1. The one to one mapping of the groups of m binary valued data bits into the corresponding baseband symbol may be based on any of the baseband modulation techniques selected for example from the set of the MQAM Multiple Quadrature Amplitude Modulation the MPSK Multiple Phase Shift Keying and the MASK Multiple Amplitude Shift Keying modulation techniques. In various embodiments of the invention the baseband modulator may also be comprised of an error correction code encoder and an interleaver.

Referring to the information baseband symbol s m is inputted to the FHFMSS modulator . Referring to the code generation subsystem generates a multiplicity M code vector waveforms c t c t . . . c t wherein each of the code vector waveforms c t is a vector valued function of time t possibly taking values 0 and 1 with Kdenoting the dimension of the vector c t . In various embodiments of the invention the various code vector waveforms may be generated by feedback shift registers of length Nwith Kof the Nstages outputs of the feedback shift register comprising the Kelements of the vector waveforms c t n M. In various alternative embodiments of the invention the elements of the vector waveforms c t may be periodic functions of time.

Referring to the multiplicity M code vector waveforms c t c t . . . c t are inputted to the multi frequency synthesizer . The multi frequency synthesizer generates a multiplicity M periodic waveforms t t . . . t on the basis of the respective one of the code vector waveforms c t c t . . . c t . In various embodiments of the invention the waveform t may be a sinusoidal waveform with its possibly time varying frequency selected form 1 out of 2possible values based on the 2possible values taken by the corresponding code waveform c t for n equal to 1 through M. For example with K 8 the number of distinct frequencies of the waveforms t may be equal to 64. In various other embodiments of the invention the waveforms t may be different from the sinusoidal waveforms.

Referring to the multiplicity M waveforms t t . . . t are inputted to the complex baseband FM Frequency Modulation modulator . Referring to the complex baseband FM modulator is provided with the modulation coefficients . . . . The product of the modulation coefficient and the peak amplitude of the waveform t is equal to the peak frequency deviation in radians sec due to the waveform t for n in the range of 1 through M. In various alternative embodiments of the invention the FM modulator may be an IF Intermediate Frequency FM Modulator modulating an IF local oscillator signal cos 2 ft provided by the IF local oscillator .

The complex baseband FM modulator frequency modules the multiplicity M waveforms t t . . . t providing the complex valued FHFM Frequency Hop Frequency Modulation waveform t given by 1 .

Referring to the information baseband symbols s m with a symbol rate of R 1 Tsps symbols per second are inputted to the spread spectrum modulator wherein Tis the symbol period. The spread spectrum modulator is provided with the complex valued FHFM waveform t that modulates the information baseband symbol sequence s m providing the baseband FHFMSS Frequency Hop Frequency Modulation Spread Spectrum signal v t at the output given by v t s m t m 1 T t

In various embodiments of the invention the waveforms t n 1 2 . . . M may be sinusoidal waveforms with their respective frequencies . . . rad sec and given by t cos 2 ft f 2 n 1 2 . . . M 3 With the waveforms t n 1 2 . . . M selected as the sinusoidal waveforms the baseband FHFM waveform t may be written as

In various embodiment of the invention the frequencies fmay all be selected equal to some integer multiples of the frequency f 1 Twherein Tis equal to the symbol period T. In various alternative embodiments of the invention the period Tmay be equal to T Nfor some integer N 1. The modulation coefficients may be selected such that the equivalent phase modulation index termed mod index for the nsinusoidal signal is equal to a constant for all indices n between 1 through M. In the various embodiments of the invention the selection of the frequencies fand the frequency modulation coefficients in the aforesaid manner results in the FHFM waveform t given by

In 5 the x coefficients are some integers which may be all distinct and are equal to the normalized frequencies f f .

Referring to the baseband FHFMSS signal v t is inputted to the baseband to IF converter that modulates the signal v t by the IF Intermediate Frequency local oscillator in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft provided by the IF local oscillator IFLO generating the IF FHFMSS band pass signal v t given by v t Rev t exp j2 ft Re v t cos 2 ft Im v t sin 2 ft 6 

In 6 fdenotes the IF frequency and Re and Im denote the real part and imaginary part operators respectively.

Referring to the IF FHFMSS band pass signal v t is inputted to the RF stages block . The RF stages block is inputted by the RF local oscillator signal provided by the RF local oscillator RFLO and may be comprised of an up converter an RF band pass filter and power amplifier providing the RF FHFMSS signal v t to the antenna . The RF signal is given by v t square root over P Rev t exp j2 ft 7 

In the multiple access embodiments of the invention a multiplicity Nof FHFMSS transmitters located at the MS units through Nmay generate Ndistinct FHFM waveforms by selection of Ndifferent sets of coefficients with the FHFM Frequency Hop Frequency Modulation waveform generated by the uFHFMSS transmitter given by

In various embodiments of the invention the number of waveforms M and the modulation coefficient may be different for different FHFMSS transmitters. The correlation coefficient between a pair of waveforms t and t may be evaluated as

In various embodiments of the invention wherein M is equal to 1 each of the bracketed terms in 9 may be expanded into a complex Fourier series resulting in the correlation coefficient between the waveforms t and t given by

In 10 J is the Bessel function of order n and and are the normalized frequencies f f and f f of the waveforms t and t respectively for the FHFMSS transmitters with corresponding indices u and v. With the substitution of J J the correlation coefficient in 10 may be rewritten as

After combining the terms of the same frequency the expression for the correlation coefficient in 11 may be simplified as

In various embodiments of the invention the coefficients and may be selected to be prime integers. Selection of the prime integer coefficients and results in most of the summation terms in 13 to be zero except those satisfying the condition that n and m are integer multiples of and respectively. For example with 7 and 11 the integers m and n must be multiples of 11 and 7 respectively. For a given modulation index the magnitude of the function J as a function of the index m is bounded by a monotone decreasing function of m with J being relatively small in magnitude for the index m much higher than . Under such condition H in 13 may be approximated by H J 14 

With a selection of equal to a zero of the equation J x 0 H in 13 is nearly equal to 0 with the result that the correlation coefficient between the two FHFM waveforms in 9 is nearly equal to 0 showing that the two FHFM waveforms t and t are nearly orthogonal.

An evaluation of the correlation coefficient from 9 for the case of M equal to 1 shows that 14 provides a very good estimate of the correlation coefficients. For example with N 9 the set of N 9 normalized frequencies f f given by S 5 7 11 13 17 19 23 29 31 and the modulation index selected to be 2.4048 that is nearly equal to the first zero of the Bessel function J the correlation coefficients are all close to 0. With 2.4048 J 1.32 10and all of the 36 but one correlation coefficients are equal to 1.78 10in good agreement with the approximation in 9 . The remaining 36coefficient is equal to 3.78 10. With 2.4 J 0.0025 and the correlation coefficients are equal to 6.29 10compared to the value 6.25 10from the approximation 14 . For the case of equal to one of the zeros of the Bessel function J and M 1 the waveforms t in 8 are orthogonal waveforms over the interval 0 T .

For the case of M 1 the Nwaveforms t in 8 may be nearly orthogonal. In various multiple accessing embodiments of the invention a subset of all possible M tuples may be selected for minimizing the multiple access interference power resulting from non zero correlation coefficients. For example with N 9 normalized frequencies given by the set Sand M 2 the number of all distinct frequency pairs is equal to

By eliminating the frequency pairs for which the normalized interference power P is relatively high the normalized interference power for the users with the remaining frequency pairs may be reduced. The process of elimination maybe performed in a recursive manner wherein a frequency pair corresponding to the highest normalized interference power P is eliminated from the set of N frequency pairs with the computation of the normalized interference power P performed for the remaining N 1 frequency pairs. The procedure may be repeated a specified integer Ntimes resulting in N N N frequency pairs with the minimum normalized interference power.

In an alternative embodiment of the invention the number of tones M may be selected equal to 3. As an example of the M 3 case shows the normalized interference power P for the case of M 3 N 9 N 84 and N 40 with N 44 5.52 and the set of normalized frequencies Sgiven by 5 7 11 13 17 19 23 29 31 . The N 44 frequency triplets are selected from a totality of N 84 possible distinct frequency triplets by minimization of the normalized interference power as for the case of M 2. The mean value of the normalized interference power for the users assigned the Nfrequency triplets is equal to 0.1242. The interference power may be further reduced by increasing Nbeyond 40. Alternatively Nmay be increased at the cost of some increase in the interference power. In various embodiments of the invention the multiple access interference may be reduced to nearly 0 for the case of M 1 by selecting the code vector sequences c t c t . . . c t to be the same for all of the Nmultiple accessing users with the c t sequence different for the various users.

The power spectral density PSD of the FHFM waveform of user u for the case of M 1 not shown is a sparse function of the frequency in that the PSD has discrete spectral lines only at the integer multiples of the frequency fwhere is the normalized frequency of the waveform of the user u. For example with 19 the power spectral density has discrete spectral lines only at the frequencies 19f 38f . . . Increasing the value of M results in making the power spectral density of the FHFM waveform a more dense function of the frequency.

The baseband modulator segments the user input data d m into groups of m binary valued data bits and maps each of the groups of the m binary data bits into one of the M 2 in general complex valued information baseband symbols s n n denotes discrete time index with m selected equal to an integer greater than or equal to 1. The one to one mapping of the groups of m binary valued data bits into the corresponding baseband symbol may be based on any of the baseband modulation techniques selected for example from the set of the MQAM Multiple Quadrature Amplitude Modulation the MPSK Multiple Phase Shift Keying and the MASK Multiple Amplitude Shift Keying modulation techniques. In various embodiments of the invention the baseband modulator may also be comprised of an error correction code encoder and an interleaver.

Referring to the code generation subsystem is comprised of code clock unit for providing a clock signal at the clock rate of f. In various alternative embodiments of the invention the clock rate of the clock signal may be an integer sub multiple of f. Referring to in some embodiments of the invention the clock rate signal inputted to the multiplicity M code generators may be different. Referring to the code clock signal is provided to a multiplicity M of PN code generators a . . . M for generating a multiplicity M binary valued code vector sequences through M c n c n c n . Throughout this application the notations 1 2 . . . N or a b N or a through N are all equivalent and denote the enumeration of integers 1 to N for any integer N. Each of the code vectors a through M is of dimension Kwherein each component of the vectors c n i M may take values 0 and 1 and n denotes discrete time index. The dimension Kis selected such that 2 Nwherein Nis the number of periodic waveforms or the number of frequencies when the waveforms are selected to be the sinusoidal waveforms.

In various embodiments of the invention the code generators may be implemented with feedback shift registers of length Nwith Kof the Nstages outputs of the feedback shift register comprising the Kelements of the code vectors c n termed sub state code vectors. Different code sequences may be generated by using different feedback connections in the feedback shift registers. In various embodiments of the invention the multiplicity M binary valued code vector sequences through M c n c n c n may be generated as appropriate delayed versions of a single sequence binary valued code vector sequences c n .

In various multiple access systems embodiments of the invention the multiple access interference may be reduced to approximately 0 for M 1 by selecting the code vector sequences c n c n . . . c n to be the same for the multiplicity Nmultiple access users with different code sequences c n for different users wherein the different code sequences c n are mapped into the same set Sof the frequency selection indices. The sets of frequency selection indices corresponding to the multiplicity M code sequences may be all disjoint sets. Such an assignment of the code vector and frequency selection indices to the multiplicity Nmultiple access users results in the correlation coefficient among any pair of the FHFM waveforms t and t with a corresponding pair of M tuples of the waveforms for a pair of multiple access users u and v to be equal to the correlation coefficient of a corresponding pair of t waveforms each with only a single waveform that are distinct resulting in an approximately 0 correlation coefficient. Approximately 0 correlation coefficient between the FHFM waveforms may thus be achieved while the FHFM waveforms possess a dense power spectral density function.

Referring to the multiplicity M code vector sequences through M c n c n c n are inputted to the multiplexer that time multiplexes the M inputs in to a single multiplexed code vector sequence c l wherein 1 is the discrete time index. A multiplicity of different symbols to designate the discrete time index may refer to different time scales in various discrete time sequences. Referring to the multiplexed code vector sequence c l is inputted to a code converter unit . The code converter unit may map the 1 out of 2possible set of values taken by the elements of the multiplexed code vector c l into a Kbit frequency selection indices with a one to one correspondence providing the output frequency selection indices sequence c l .

In various embodiments of the invention the frequency selection indices may be selected from the set of normalized frequencies f fin the set Sand the number of bits Kmay be selected such that 2 wherein is the maximum normalized frequency in the set Sfor the case of sinusoidal waveforms t . In various embodiments of the invention the multiplicity M code vector sequences may be mapped into disjoint sets of frequency selection indices by the code converter. The frequency selection indices may be selected from the set of prime integers. The mapping of the code vectors into a frequency selection index may be performed by a table look up.

Referring to the frequency selection indices sequence c l is inputted to the demultiplexer . The demultiplexer time demultiplexes the input frequency selection indices sequence into the multiplicity M frequency selection indices subsequences c n i 1 2 . . . M.

Referring to the multiplicity M frequency selection indices subsequences c n c n . . . c n . . . M are inputted to the time multiplexed direct digital multi frequency synthesizer TMDDFS . The multi frequency synthesizer generates a discrete time waveform that is a time multiplexed version of the multiplicity M waveforms . . . with denoting the time index and is the discrete time version with Knumber of bits per sample of the waveform t given by

In various embodiments of the invention the waveform t and t may be sinusoidal waveform with their possibly time varying frequencies selected from 1 out of 2possible values based on the 2possible values taken by the elements of the corresponding code vector c l for i equal to 1 through M. For example with K 8 the number of distinct frequencies of the waveforms t may be equal to 64. In various other embodiments of the invention waveforms t may be different from the sinusoidal waveforms. In various alternative embodiments of the invention the multiplicity M waveforms . . . may be generated by one of the various frequency synthesizers such as the indirect frequency synthesizer based on phase lock loops direct synthesizers etc.

Referring to the discrete time waveform is inputted to the demultiplexer . The demultiplexer time demultiplexes the waveform into multiplicity M discrete time waveforms . . . M n n . . . n . Referring to the multiplicity M discrete time waveforms M n n . . . n are inputted to the digital baseband FM Frequency modulation modulator . The baseband FM modulator is provided with the mod indices . . . M . . . corresponding to the waveforms t t . . . t .

Referring to the multiplicity M discrete time waveforms . . . M n n . . . n are inputted to the scalar multipliers . . . M that multiply the waveforms . . . M by the respective mod indices M . . . providing the resulting scaled waveforms a through M to the adder . The adder provides the resulting sum waveform n to the rate converter unit . In various alternative embodiments wherein the mod indices . . . are all equal to the same mod index the multiplicity M discrete time waveforms M n n . . . n may be added first by the adder followed by scalar multiplication by by a single scalar multiplier for providing the waveform n to the rate converter unit .

The sampling rate of various waveforms is determined by the bandwidths of the waveforms to avoid aliasing errors. According to Nyquist theorem the sampling rate must be at least two times the bandwidth of the waveform termed the Nyquist rate. For example for the case of sinusoidal waveform t with frequency f f the sampling rate must be greater than or equal to 2 per code chip period T. The sampling rate for the multiplicity M discrete time waveforms M n n . . . n may be selected to be 4 per code chip period Twherein is the maximum normalized frequency. The bandwidth Bof the FHFM waveform t given by 5 may be estimated by Carson s rule as B f f where f is the peak frequency deviation equal to . . . f and f fis the maximum modulation frequency with equal to the maximum of the normalized frequencies . . . . The sampling rate of the FHFM waveform may be determined on the basis of an upper bound on the bandwidth B 1 M fand must be sampled at a rate greater than or equal to 2Bsamples sec. Referring to the rate converter unit increases the sampling rate of the waveform n by a factor of 1 M wherein the scalar a depends upon the rates selected for the waveforms t and t and is equal to 1 if both the waveforms t and t are sampled at their respective Nyquist rates.

In various embodiments of the invention the sampling rate of the waveforms for the multiplicity M discrete time M n n . . . n may be selected to be greater than or equal to the Nyquist rate of the waveform t eliminating the need for the rate converter . However this will require the operation of the TMDDFS unit the scalar multipliers and the adder at the increased sampling rate. Both the waveforms t and n m 1 2 . . . M are here to fore also referred to as the waveforms.

Referring to the rate converted waveform k is inputted to the exponential function unit that provides the discrete time FHFM waveform k with sampling period tgiven by 16 .

Referring to the information baseband symbols s n is inputted to the spread spectrum modulator for modulation by the FHFM waveform k . Referring to the information baseband symbols s n is inputted to the rate converter unit that increases the sampling rate of the information baseband symbols s n from Rto the sampling rate of the FHFM waveform k that is greater than or equal to 2 Bwith Bequal to the bandwidth of the FHFM waveform. The rate converted symbol sequence is inputted to the modulator . Referring to the FHFM waveform k is inputted to the modulator for modulating the rate converted symbol sequence s k providing the discrete time baseband FHFM spread spectrum signal v k given by

The power spectral density PSD of the baseband FHFM spread spectrum signal v k is given by the convolution of the PSD of the FHFM waveform with the PSD of the information baseband signal s m . The one sided bandwidth Bof the spread spectrum signal v k is equal to the sum of the one sided bandwidth Bof the FHFM waveform and the one sided bandwidth Bof the information baseband symbol s m wherein Bmay be orders of magnitude higher than B. For any selected baseband modulation technique the bandwidth Bmay be evaluated in terms of the symbol rate R. For example for MQAM modulation Bis equal to R.

Referring to the discrete time baseband FHFM spread spectrum signal v k is inputted to the digital to analog converter for providing the baseband FHFMSS signal v t at the output.

Referring to the baseband FHFMSS signal v t is inputted to the baseband to IF converter that modulates the signal v t by the IF Intermediate Frequency local oscillator in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft provided by the IF local oscillator IFLO generating the IF FHFMSS band pass signal v t given by v t Rev t exp j2 ft Re v t cos 2 ft Im v t sin 2 ft 18 

In 18 fdenotes the IF frequency and Re and Im denote the real part and imaginary part operators respectively. The baseband to IF converter unit may also be comprised of a band limiting IF filter that may limit the bandwidth of the IF signal to be smaller than two times the 99.9 bandwidth Bof the baseband FHFM spread spectrum signal v k .

Referring to the IF FHFMSS band pass signal v t is inputted to the RF stages block . The RF stages block is inputted by the RF local oscillator signal provided by the RF local oscillator RFLO and may be comprised of an up converter an RF band pass filter and power amplifier providing the RF FHFMSS signal v t to the antenna . The RF signal is given by v t square root over P Rev t exp j2 ft 19 

Referring to the normalized frequency is inputted to the adder . The output of the adder is inputted to the modulo Nunit The modulo Nunit performs the integer division of the input by the integer Nand provides the remainder at the output to the phase register Referring to the output of the phase register is delayed by one sample time by the delay unit with the delayed output provided to the adder With Nselected to be the integer multiple of m 1 2 . . . M during any period Tcomprised of Nsamples of the waveform the phase accumulator output is given by

For example for the case of 1 and 2 n sequence is given by n 0 1 . . . N 1 0 1 . . . 1 22a n 0 2 . . . N 2 0 1 . . . N 2 0 2 . . . 2 22b 

For equal to any sub integer multiple m of N there are m periods each of length N m during the Nsamples at the output of the phase accumulator.

Referring to the outputs n m 1 2 . . . M of the multiplicity M phase accumulators through M are inputted to the multiplexer . The multiplexer time multiplexes the M outputs n providing the multiplexed output at a sampling rate of MNfsps samples per second . Referring to the multiplexed output is inputted to the memory address register MAR . The memory address register stores the multiplexer output and may add a constant offset term for example 1 providing the address of the data stored in the ROM .

Referring to the ROM memory unit stores the data at Nlocations with the content of the location at the address given by sin 2 k N with k equal to the address minus any offset introduced by the MAR that is the Nmemory locations store the Nsamples of one period of a sine wave of period T. Referring to the output of the ROM memory is stored in the data buffer that provides the multiplexed waveform at the output. The number of bits Kfor each data word at any one of the memory addresses may be determined on the basis of the signal to quantization noise power ratio that is approximately given by 6KdB. For example a selection of K 8 results in 48 dB signal to quantization noise ratio. The number of samples Nmay be selected to be an integer v 4 times the maximum normalized frequency . For example with 100 a memory size of words may be sufficient.

In prior art frequency hopped spread spectrum systems the outputs of all of the Nstages of the feedback shift register may be used to select the hop frequency with a one to one mapping of the shift register states into the synthesizer frequencies wherein the number of distinct frequencies equal to the number of states of the feedback register that need to be generated by the frequency synthesizer is equal to the period 2 1. The state of the shift register is the length Nvector comprised of the binary outputs of the Nshift register stages. The number of shift register states and the period of the sequence of frequencies generated by the frequency synthesizer based on the state of the shift register when g D is a primitive polynomial are both equal to 2 1.

In the FHFMSS transmitter of the invention the complexity of the frequency synthesizer may be reduced by reducing the required number of distinct frequencies to be generated by the frequency synthesizer without reducing the period of the sequence. In order to reduce the number of distinct frequencies to be generated by the frequency synthesizer while keeping the period of the sequence of frequencies unchanged only a subset Kof the Nstages of the feedback shift register are used to select the synthesizer frequency in . Referring to the K K N outputs x x . . . xof the stages N K 1 through Nof the shift register constitute the elements of the first code vector c k k is the discrete time index provided at the output of the code generation subsystem . That the sequence of frequencies generated by one to one map of the 2values of the sub state vector x x . . . x into the synthesizer frequencies has a period 2 1 may be seen as follows. If the period were less than 2 1 then necessarily the component xof the sub state vector will have a period less than 2 1. However xis the PN code at the output of the feedback shift register and has period 2 1 thus the period of the sequence of frequencies generated by one to one map of the values of the sub state vector must be 2 1.

Referring to a multiplicity M 1 code vector sequences may be generated as some selected delayed versions of the code vector sequence c n . Delaying of the component xby L chip periods may be implemented by delaying the input to the shift register by L Ncode chips if L Nand 2 L N chips if L

In 23 b b . . . denotes the sequence at the input and modulo g D operation refers to the remainder polynomial obtained after the Euclidean division of Dby g D .

Referring to the sequence b k is delayed sequentially by a multiplicity M 1 integers L L . . . Lproviding the delayed versions of b k with cumulative delays L L L . . . L L . . . L with the corresponding polynomials h D . . . h D . Referring to the sequence b k and its delayed versions through Nare multiplied by the respective binary coefficients of the polynomial h D through Nh h . . . hby the multipliers through Nproviding the result of multiplication through Nto the adder The output of the adder is the Lchips delayed version of b k . The binary coefficients through Nh h . . . hare the coefficients of the polynomial h D that is the remainder polynomial obtained after the Euclidean division of Dby g D . Referring to the first delayed sequence is inputted to the shift register through N. The outputs of the stages 1 through Kx x . . . xof the shift register constitute the elements of the second code vector c k . In the like manner the first delayed sequence may be delayed by a delay of Lchips providing the third code vector c k and so on providing the code vectors c k . . . c k at the output of the code generation subsystem for inputting to the multiplexer unit .

Referring to the sequence b k at the input of the shift register is delayed by L 6 chips by multiplying the polynomial b D corresponding to the sequence b k by the polynomial h D 1 D. Referring to the polynomial division by h D is implemented by adding the sequence b k with the output of the first stage of the shift register via the adder . The output of the adder is inputted to the shift register . Referring to the outputs of the last four stages through of the shift register comprise of the elements of the second code vector c k .

Referring to in various embodiments of the invention the code converter may map the code vector c l into the normalized frequency l with a BCD binary coded decimal code. Referring to with the shift register initial state selected to be 0 . . . 0 1 the sequence of the normalized frequencies corresponding to the first code is given by 1 0 0 8 12 14 15 15 15 7 11 5 10 5 10 13 6 3 9 12 6 11 13 14 7 11 13 6 11 5 2 9 4 2 9 12 14 7 3 1 8 4 10 13 14 15 7 3 9 4 10 5 2 1 8 12 6 3 1 0 8 4 2 

The period of the normalized frequencies sequence is 63 that is equal to the period of the maximal length sequence of the PN code generated by a six stage feedback shift register. The distribution V of the normalized frequencies x is give by Table 2.

Table 2 shows that the distribution of the normalized frequencies is nearly uniform over the interval 0 15 that is a property of random sequences. plots the correlation coefficient versus the delay of the normalized frequency sequence corresponding to the code vector c k of . Referring to the correlation coefficient is periodic in delay with a period of 64 and has a relatively small value of 0.0439 for the delay in the range of 4 to 60. The BCD frequency indices may also be mapped into a set of prime integers wherein the generated frequency sequences may inherit similar properties of the random sequences.

In various multiple access systems embodiments of the invention the generation of different code vectors by feedback shift registers in the multiplicity Nmultiple accessing FHFMSS transmitters may result in a collision among various FHFMSS signals in that with some nonzero probability more than one FHFMSS signals may use the same M tuple of periodic waveforms. Such a collision may result in an erasure of the information baseband symbol transmitted during the period of collision. In prior art FHSS systems error correction codes with a capability of correcting for an expected number of such erasures are required for a successful transmission. In various embodiments of the invention such collisions and erasures may be avoided by the generation of the icode vector sequence for the multiple accessing user j c n by a cyclic permutation of the corresponding icode vectors c n or that of the sub state vectors comprised of the Kstages of the feedback shift register generating the code vectors c n for the multiple accessing user . Different multiple accessing users are assigned the corresponding different cyclic permutation of the code vectors cn . The cyclic permutation may be implemented by the modulo 2B addition of an integer between 1 and 2 1 to the BCD Binary Coded Decimal equivalent of the sub state vector. For example with K 6 2 64 the BCD equivalent of the sub state vector of user at any one time may take one of the values 0 1 2 . . . 63. Modulo addition of integer to the BCD equivalent of the sub state vector for the generation of the code for user the sub state vector for user has the corresponding values 1 2 3 . . . 64 0 respectively and corresponds to a cyclic permutation of the sub state vectors of user . In a like manner modulo addition of integers through results in different cyclic permutations of the sub state vectors of user . Generation of the code vector sequences in this manner ensures that no two users will have the same sub state vector or the same code vector at any time thereby avoiding any possibility of collision among the FHFMSS signals of the various multiple accessing users.

In various multiple access systems embodiments of the invention one or more of the multiplicity M code vector sequences may be common for the multiplicity Nmultiple accessing users. In some of the embodiments the common sequences may have a period equal to 1. The normalized frequency indices corresponding to the common sequences may be relatively prime to the normalized frequencies corresponding to the other sequences. For example with M 3 the first normalized frequencies may take values from the set of prime numbers 5 7 11 13 . . . whereas the second and third sequences may have a period equal to 1 with the normalized frequencies equal to 8 and 9 respectively resulting in correlation coefficient among any pair of multiple accessing user FHFM waveforms equal to the correlation coefficient obtained for the case of M 1 periodic waveform in the generation of the FHFM waveforms of the two users that is nearly equal to 0. However unlike the M 1 case the FHFM waveforms for the case of M 3 periodic waveforms possess dense power spectral density functions. For example shows the plot of the PSD of the FHFM waveform for the case of the normalized frequency triplet taken from the above example and equal to 19 4 9 with the corresponding mod indices equal to 2.4048 1. As may be inferred from the the power spectral density of the FHFM waveform is a relatively dense function of frequency with a 99.9 power bandwidth equal to fcomparable to the bandwidth equal to .festimated from Carson s rule. In comparison the sparse power spectral density function shown in of the FHFM waveform for the case of a single normalized frequency of 19 only has nonzero spectral lines spaced at multiples of fwith the 99.9 power bandwidth equal to f.

Referring to the RF front stage unit provides the IF signal v t to the IF to complex baseband converter . The IF to complex baseband converter is provided with the IF local oscillator signal in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft generated by the NCO Numerically Controlled Oscillator . The IF to complex baseband converter may be comprised of demodulating the IF signal v t by the in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft and filtering the resulting signals by the low pass filters. The outputs of the low pass filters comprise of the real and imaginary components of the complex baseband signal v t at the output of the IF to complex baseband converter .

In Nis the number of multiple accessing users and n t is comprised of the receiver noise and any external interference and s t is the continuous time version of the information symbol sequence s k of the multiple accessing user u. The signal s t is equal to the information symbol s k during the period kT t

Referring to the code generation subsystem generates a multiplicity M code vector waveforms c t c t . . . c t wherein each of the code waveforms c t is a vector valued function of time t possibly taking values 0 and 1 with Kdenoting the dimension of the vector c t . In various embodiments of the invention the various code waveforms may be generated by feedback shift registers of length Nwith Kof the Nstages outputs of the feedback shift register comprising the Kelements of the vector waveforms c t . In various other elements of the invention the elements of the vector waveforms c t may be periodic functions of time.

Referring to the multiplicity M code vector waveforms c t c t . . . c t are inputted to the multi frequency synthesizer . The multi frequency synthesizer generates a multiplicity M waveforms t t . . . t on the basis of the respective one of the code waveforms c t c t . . . c t . In various embodiments of the invention the waveform t may be a sinusoidal waveform with its possibly time varying frequency selected form 1 out of 2possible values based on the 2possible values taken by the corresponding code waveform c t for n equal to 1 through M. For example with K 8 the number of distinct frequencies of the waveforms t may be equal to 64. In various other embodiments of the invention waveforms t may be different from the sinusoidal waveforms. In multiple accessing system embodiments of the invention various users may have different code waveforms c t c t . . . c t with corresponding different selection of the waveforms t t . . . t .

Referring to the multiplicity M waveforms t t . . . t are inputted to the complex baseband FM Frequency Modulation modulator . Referring to the complex baseband FM modulator is provided with the modulation coefficients . . . . The product of the modulation coefficient and the peak amplitude of the waveform t is equal to the peak frequency deviation in radians sec due to the waveform t for n in the range of 1 through M.

The complex baseband FM modulator frequency modules the multiplicity M waveforms t t . . . t providing the complex valued FHFM Frequency Hop Frequency Modulation waveform t for the multiple accessing user u given by 25 .

In 25 t t . . . t denote the specific selection of the multiplicity M waveforms t t . . . t for the multiple accessing user u. With the waveforms t n 1 2 . . . M selected as the sinusoidal waveforms with frequencies f the baseband FHFM waveform t in 25 may be written as

In various embodiments of the invention for n between 1 and M may be equal to a constant the frequency fmay be an integer multiple of a frequency ffor 1 n M and the output t of the complex baseband FM modulator provided to the complex conjugate operation unit is given by

Referring to the output t of the complex conjugate operation unit is inputted to the spread spectrum demodulator block . The spread spectrum demodulator block correlates the complex baseband signal v t with the FHFM waveform t providing the despread signal v l given by

Referring to the spread spectrum demodulator output v l is inputted to the symbol detector . The symbol detector is comprised of an integrator and a decision device not shown. The integrator averages out the N samples of v l during any symbol interval T NTand inputs the resulting estimate m to the decision device. For the case of N 1 the spread spectrum demodulator output v l is inputted to the decision device of the symbol detector.

Referring to the decision device in the symbol detector detects the information baseband symbols s m on the basis of the signal constellation diagram of the baseband modulator at the FHFMSS transmitter of by mapping the estimate m into one of the points of the signal constellation diagram of the baseband modulator in the two dimensional signal space and provides the detected symbol s m m 0 1 . . . to the baseband demodulation subsystem .

For example the baseband modulator may be an M 64 QAM modulator with 64 points in the signal constellation diagram. The detection of the information baseband symbols may be based on for example the maximum likelihood criteria or the minimum distance criteria in the two dimensional signal space.

Referring to the detected baseband symbol s m is inputted to the baseband demodulator . The baseband demodulator maps the detected baseband symbols s m into groups of m binary digits wherein m log M assumed to be an integer using the inverse of the map from group of m binary digits into 1 out of M possible information baseband symbols used in the baseband modulator at the FHFMSS transmitter. The baseband demodulator block may finally concatenate the groups of M binary digits into the serial stream d m that constitutes the detected version of the user n input data at the FHFMSS transmitter. In various embodiments of the invention the baseband demodulator may also be comprised of an error correction decoder and a deinterleaver.

Various modifications and other embodiments of the invention applicable to various problems in Communication and other fields will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in the field of invention. For example the waveform may be selected to be different than the sinusoidal waveform in various embodiments of the invention.

The number of orthogonal FHFM waveforms in a given bandwidth Bmay be increased by a factor of two by augmenting the set of FHFM waveforms

For the case of M 1 the set of FHFM waveforms a prime integer forms an orthogonal set in that the correlation coefficient of any pair of waveforms foromm the set is near zero except for a non zero coefficient between the waveforms with the same value of . The non zero correlation coefficient is a function of but does not depend upon . For example for 2.4048 0.3645. The extended set of the FHFM waveforms may be made orthogonal by replacing the FHFM waveforms by a pair of their weighted combinations given by 29 . P P 29a P P 29b 

In 29 P i j 1 2 are the elements of a 2 2 orthogonalization matrix P that is inverse of the square root factor of a matrix R given by 30 .

In 30 denotes complex conjugate and the superscript H denotes complex conjugate transpose of a matrix. For the case of 2.4048 the matrix P is given by

Referring to in various embodiments of the invention the TMDDFS unit may generate discrete time version of both the waveforms sin 2 ft and sin 2 ft wherein the integers are determined by the frequency selection indices c n for 1 m M. Referring to in various embodiments of the invention the ROM word size for the ROM unit may be selected to be 2Kbits wherein the first Kbits store the samples of the function sin 2 ft with the last Kbits storing the samples of the cos 2 ft function. Referring to the data buffer unit may be comprised of a data splitter that may split the ROM word read from the memory into two outputs and may time multiplex the two outputs corresponding to the samples of the waveforms sin 2 ft and sin 2 ft .

Referring to in the FM modulator unit the mod. coefficients corresponding to the sin waveforms may be set to a constant with the mod. coefficients corresponding to the cos waveforms set to 0 wherein the exponentiation unit may include a gain equal to Pproviding the FHFM waveform P k at the output. A second baseband FM modulator unit not shown inputted with the waveforms may set the mod. coefficients corresponding to the sin waveforms to 0 with the mod. coefficients corresponding to the cos waveforms set to wherein the gain in its exponentiation unit is set equal to Pwith the second baseband FM modulator unit providing the FHFM waveform P k at the output. An adder not shown adds the two FHFM waveforms P k and P k providing the sum waveform k to the spread spectrum modulator .

In various multiple access systems embodiments of the invention a second transmitter may replace the gains Pand Pof the exponentiation units of the two FM modulator units by Pand Prespectively for providing the waveform k to the spread spectrum modulator resulting in the orthogonality of the FHFM waveforms generated by the two FHFMSS transmitters.

In various multiple access systems embodiments of the invention wherein the FHFMSS transmitter is located for example at the base station of a cellular communication network the transmitter may generate a multiplicity NFHFM waveforms similar to the generation of the FHFM waveform in the transmitter of that modulate the respective ones of the multiplicity Ninformation baseband signals for the generation of a multiplicity Nbaseband FHFMSS signals similar to in that may be added by an adder not shown to provide a composite baseband FHFMSS signal that is inputted to the cascade of the DAC baseband to IF converter and the RF stages unit for the generation of the RF FHFMSS signal. In case when a number Nof the FHFM waveforms are generated by the periodic waveforms of the same normalized frequency those Nwaveforms are orthogonalized before modulating the corresponding information baseband signals. The orthogonalization may be performed by pre multiplying the vector comprised of the NFHFM waveforms by the orthogonalization matrix P given by 31 for the case of N 2. The elements of the resulting product vector constitute the corresponding multiplicity Northogonalized FHFM waveforms.

The number of orthogonal FHFM waveforms in a given bandwidth Bmay be further increased by a factor of two by augmenting the set of FHFM waveforms with the FHFM waveforms corresponding to a different values of the mod indices. For example for the case of M 1 the augmented set of the FHFM waveforms may include the waveforms 

In 32 is a prime integer and and are two different mod indices and preferably are the zeros of the Bessel function J .

The extended set of multiplicity N 4 FHFM waveforms a prime integer forms an orthogonal set in that the correlation coefficient of any pair of waveforms from the set is near zero except for a non zero coefficients between the waveforms with the same value of . The non zero correlation coefficients are a function of and but do not depend upon . For example for 2.4048 and 5.52 the correlation coefficient matrix R of the FHFM waveforms for any prime integer is given by

As for the case of N 2 the extended set of the FHFM waveforms may be made orthogonal by replacing the FHFM waveforms by their weighted combinations with weighting coefficients given by the rows of the matrix P given by 34 .

In some multiple accessing systems embodiments of the invention the vector may be pre multiplied by the matrix P for the orthogonalization of the Np 4 FHFM waveforms as in the case of N 2. The number of orthogonal waveforms in the set of FHFM waveforms is thereby increased by a factor of N.

In the extended set of the FHFM waveforms relatively low values of may be included for the higher value of so that there is no significant increase in the bandwidth Bover that for the case of single mod index . Increase in the number of orthogonal FHFM waveforms is thus achieved without an increase in the signal bandwidth Bof the spread spectrum signal. The number of different mod indices may be increased to more than 2 at the cost of some additional complexity for a further increase in the set of orthogonal waveforms.

In various multiple accessing systems embodiments of the invention wherein the FHFMSS transmitters generate orthogonalized FHFM waveforms the FHFMSS receiver in may detect any of the multiplicity Ninformation baseband signals by despreading the baseband FHFMSS signal by the spread spectrum demodulator wherein the FHFM waveform may be the corresponding one of the orthogonalized waveforms. The orthogonalized FHFM waveform at the receiver may be generated as at the transmitter and may be comprised of a multiplicity Ncomplex baseband FM modulators generating the FHFM waveforms that are weighted combined with the weights given by the rows of the matrix P.

In various multiple accessing systems embodiments of the invention wherein the FHFMSS receiver is located for example at the base station of a mobile communication network the MS mobile stations transmitters may transmit the FHFMSS signals generated by spreading with the extended set of FHFM waveforms such as without the orthogonalization. The multiple accessing interference due to non zero correlation coefficient among some of the FHFM waveforms may be eliminated at the FHFMSS receiver. The FHFMSS receiver at the base station may generate a multiplicity NFHFM waveforms similar to the generation of the FHFM waveform t shown in the receiver of and may comprise of a multiplicity Nspread spectrum demodulators similar to of that may be inputted with the respective ones of the multiplicity NFHFM waveforms. The multiplicity Nspread spectrum demodulators are inputted with the baseband FHFMSS signal . A vector comprised of the outputs of the multiplicity Nspread spectrum demodulators may be pre multiplied by the matrix P in 34 to mitigate the multiple accessing interference due to the non zero correlation coefficients among the FHFM waveforms. The elements of the product vector comprise of the interference mitigated multiplicity Ndespread signals similar to the signal in . The multiple versions of various subsystems are not shown in for a clear understanding of the invention.

The frequency hopped frequency modulation spread spectrum multiple accessing architectures of the invention can be readily modified and applied to various fields where such an architecture is applicable. Examples of such fields include Radars sonar digital audio systems and so on.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating other elements for purposes of clarity. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these and other elements may be desirable. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

In general it will be apparent that the embodiments described herein may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware for example based on Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA chips or implemented in Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICS . The software and firmware code may be executed by a computer or computing device comprising a processor e.g. a DSP or any other similar processing circuit including for example the computing device described below. The processor may be in communication with memory or another computer readable medium comprising the software code. The software code or specialized control hardware that may be used to implement embodiments is not limiting. For example embodiments described herein may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer software language type using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. According to various embodiments the software may be firmware stored at an EEPROM and or other non volatile memory associated with a DSP or other similar processing circuit. The operation and behavior of the embodiments may be described without specific reference to specific software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments based on the present description with no more than reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

In the example of the computing device comprises one or more processor circuits or processing units one or more memory and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O devices . Additionally the computing device comprises a bus that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus may comprise wired and or wireless buses.

The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs application programs and or program modules blocks to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device is shown in the context of a single processor architecture it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor. The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through the bus . The bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be shown as being separate from the processing unit for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or non volatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The one or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include data ports analog to digital converters ADCs digital to analog converters DACs a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner a touch sensitive screen and the like. Examples of output devices include data ports ADCs DACs a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Android system Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

In various embodiments disclosed herein a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative such substitution is within the intended scope of the embodiments.

While various embodiments have been described herein it should be apparent that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with attainment of at least some of the advantages. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope of the embodiments as set forth herein.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory machine readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The machine readable storage medium may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVDs read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. For example the distribution of software may be an Internet download.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

