---

title: Electronic device and method for manufacturing the same
abstract: An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a support member including at least a portion formed of a conductive material, an enclosure member configured to receive the support member and including at least a portion of which is formed of a conductive material. The conductive material portion of the enclosure member and the conductive material portion of the support member are insulated from each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09625949&OS=09625949&RS=09625949
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09625949
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150710
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Aug. 11 2014 and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0103747 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Various electronic devices such as home appliances communication devices computers laptop computers tablet personal computers PCs mobile communication terminals and so forth may include an enclosure or case manufactured using metallic or synthetic resin materials. The metallic material makes the electronic device look sophisticated and provides protection to external shock. The synthetic resin material is light weight and easy to mold such that it may be used to manufacture any shape of electronic devices. To maximize the advantages of the metallic material and the synthetic resin material both the metallic material and the synthetic resin material may be used in combination to manufacture the enclosure of the electronic device. For example the body of the enclosure may be manufactured using the synthetic resin material and a frame and or a decoration manufactured using the metallic material may be coupled to the body of the enclosure to reinforce the strength of the enclosure or to provide an aesthetically elegant exterior of the enclosure. For this reason when the enclosure of the electronic device is manufactured the amount of metallic material exposed on the exterior gradually increases.

While the use of the metallic material on the exterior of the electronic device may provide an exterior aesthetic improvement and or strength reinforcement the metallic material may exhibit additional undesirable properties.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to electrically insulate an electronic device while providing an aesthetically sophisticated exterior using a metallic material.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a support member having at least a portion formed of a conductive material and an enclosure member configured to receive the support member. The enclosure member has at least a portion formed of a conductive material. The conductive material portion of the enclosure member and the conductive material portion of the support member are insulated from each other.

The enclosure member or housing member may include a conductive material portion for example metal and a non conductive material portion for example synthetic resin and may be manufactured into one piece by insert molding or may be coupled by assembly.

The non conductive material portion of the enclosure member may insulate the conductive material portion of the enclosure member from the support member.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for manufacturing an electronic device is provided. The method includes manufacturing an enclosure member wherein at least a portion of the enclosure member is formed of a conductive material manufacturing a support member wherein at least a portion of the support member is formed of a conductive material and receiving the support member in the enclosure member such that the conductive material portion of the enclosure member and the conductive material portion of the support member are insulated from each other.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

Relative terms referred to as illustrated in the drawings such as a front surface a rear surface a top surface a bottom surface and the like may be replaced with ordinal numbers such as first second and so forth. The order of components such as first second and so forth is the order in which they are mentioned or the arbitrarily set order and thus may be changed arbitrarily. The terms are used for distinguishing one component from another component. For example a first user device and a second user device are both user devices and indicate different user devices. Also a first component may be referred to as a second component and likewise a second component may also be referred to as a first component without departing from the teaching of the present disclosure.

Terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to describe an embodiment rather than to limit the various embodiments of the present disclosure. Terms include or may include used in various embodiments of the present disclosure indicate an existence of disclosed function operation or element but do not limit an existence of one or more other functions operations or elements. Terms include or has used in the present disclosure should be understood that they are intended to indicate an existence of feature number operation element item or any combination thereof disclosed in the specification but should not be understood that they are intended to previously exclude an existence of one or more other features numbers operations elements or any combination thereof or possibility of adding those things.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which various embodiments of the present disclosure belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the specification with the context of the relevant art as understood by the artisan at the time of disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

In the present disclosure an electronic device may be an arbitrary device including a touch panel and may be referred to as a terminal a portable terminal a mobile terminal a communication terminal a portable communication terminal a portable mobile terminal a display device or the like.

For example the electronic device may be a smart phone a cellular phone a navigation system a game console a television TV a vehicle head unit a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal media player PMP a personal digital assistant PDA or the like. The electronic device may be implemented as a pocket size portable communication terminal having a wireless communication function. The electronic device may be a flexible device or a flexible display device.

The electronic device may perform an operation by communicating with an external electronic device such as a server or interworking with the external electronic device. For example the electronic device may transmit an image captured by a camera and or position information detected by a sensor unit to the server over the network. The network may be but not limited to a mobile or cellular communication network a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN Internet or a small area network SAN .

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output I O interface a display and a communication interface . In various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include an application operation module .

The bus may include a circuit for interconnecting the foregoing components and delivering communication for example a control message and or data among the components.

The processor may include one or more of a central processing unit CPU an application processor AP and a communication processor CP . The processor may receive a command from the foregoing other components for example the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface or the application operation module through the bus interprets the received command and executes an operation or data processing according to the interpreted command.

The memory may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may store commands or data received from the processor or other components for example the I O interface the display the communication interface or the application operation module or generated by the processor or other components. The memory may include for example a kernel middleware an application programming interface API and or an application . At least a part of the kernel the middleware and the API may be referred to as an operating system OS . Each of the foregoing programming modules may be configured with software firmware or hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel is configured to control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used to execute an operation or a function implemented in other programs for example the middleware the API or the application . The kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API and or the application accesses separate components of the electronic device to control or manage the system resources.

The middleware may be configured to function as an intermediary between other elements of the memory . For example middleware may allow the API or the application to exchange data in communication with the kernel . In regard to task requests received from the application the middleware is configured to control for example scheduling or load balancing with respect to the task requests. For example the middleware may grant at least one of the applications priority to use a system resource for example the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device .

The API is an interface used for the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for example a command for file control window control image processing and or character control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a healthcare application for example an application for measuring an exercise volume or a blood sugar level or an environment information application for example an application for providing air pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with information exchange between the electronic device and the external electronic device . The application associated with information exchange may include a notification relay application for relaying particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device .

For example the notification relay application may include a function of relaying notification information generated in another application for example the SMS MMS application the e mail application the healthcare management application and or the environment information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may for example receive notification information from the external electronic device and provide the notification information to a user. The device management application may manage for example install delete and or update a function of at least a part of the external electronic device communicating with the electronic device for example turn on turn off of the external electronic device or a part thereof or brightness or resolution adjustment of the display an application operating on the external electronic device or a service for example a call service or a message service provided on the external electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application designated according to an attribute for example a type of the external electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application associated with music playback. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application associated with healthcare. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application designated in the electronic device and an application received from another electronic device for example the server or the external electronic device .

The I O interface serves as an interface for delivering a command or data input from a user or another external device to other component s of the electronic device . The I O interface may also output a command or data received from other component s of the electronic device to a user or another external device.

The display may include for example a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a microelectromechanical system MEMS display or an electronic paper display. The display may display various contents for example a text an image video an icon or a symbol to users. The display may include a touch screen and receives a touch a gesture proximity or a hovering input for example by using an electronic pen or a part of a body of a user.

The communication interface is configured to establish communication for example between the electronic device and an external device for example a first external electronic device or a server . For example the communication interface is connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device .

The wireless communication may use as a cellular communication protocol for example at least one of long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA a universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM . The wired communication may include for example at least one of a universal serial bus USB a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a recommended standard RS 232 and a plain old telephone service POTS . The network may include at least one of a telecommunications network for example at least one of a computer network for example a LAN or a WAN Internet and a telephone network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things e.g. device to device D2D communication or machine to machine M2M communication and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. external electronic device and or server may be supported in at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel and or the communication interface .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application operation module may support driving of the electronic device by performing at least one of operations or functions implemented on the electronic device . For example the server may include a communication control server module configured to support the application operation module implemented on the electronic device . The communication control server module may include at least one component of the application operation module to perform at least one of the operations performed by the application operation module for example in place of the application operation module .

The application operation module processes at least a part of information obtained from other components for example the processor the memory the I O interface or the communication interface and uses the processed part in various ways. For example using or independently of the processor the application operation module controls at least some functions of the electronic device such that the electronic device interworks with another electronic device for example the external electronic device and or the server . The application operation module may be integrated into the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one component of the application operation module may be included in the server for example the communication control server module and at least one operations implemented in the application operation module may be supported by the server .

Referring to the electronic device for example the electronic device may include an enclosure member and a support member . In an exemplary embodiment and at least a portion of the enclosure member and at least a portion of the support member are composed of conductive materials respectively where the conductive material of the enclosure member may be insulated from the conductive material of the support member .

The enclosure member may be formed by coupling a molding enclosure made of a first material such as a non conductive material for example synthetic resin and a frame enclosure made of a second material different from the first material such as a conductive material for example metal . For example the frame enclosure may form a conductive material portion of the enclosure member . The molding enclosure and the frame enclosure may be manufactured into one piece by insert or inject molding or each element may be formed individually and coupled during an assembly process. The frame enclosure may be provided to enclose an entire outer surface of the molding enclosure or to surround at least a portion of the outer surface. On an inner surface of the frame enclosure at least one reinforcement member may be provided. The reinforcement member may protrude from the inner surface of the frame enclosure . In an exemplary embodiment one or more reinforcement members may protrude from the inner surface of the frame enclosure. For example while only one reinforcement member is illustrated in a reinforcement member may protrude from up to the four corners of the frame enclosure . The reinforcement member may prevent the frame enclosure from being bent or twisted by an external force. By forming the reinforcement member at a corner of the frame enclosure rather than in other straight portions a greater reinforcing effect may be obtained.

As best illustrated in a front surface of the enclosure member may be open and a display device may be mounted to close the open front surface of the enclosure member . As illustrated in the display device may include a display module for example the display for outputting a screen and a window member . A touch panel may be integrated into one of the display module and the window member such that the display device may be used not only to output information on a screen but also to function as an input device. The window member is located in the outermost edge of the display device to protect the display module and to pass the screen output from the display module therethrough. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an input key such as a keypad may be disposed on a region of the window member .

Referring to various circuit devices for example a circuit board may be provided within the enclosure member . Moreover a support member for example a bracket may be provided inside the enclosure member to reinforce distortional stiffness of the electronic device . The support member includes a conductive material portion to provide grounding and shielding of various circuit devices including the circuit board thereby improving operation stability of the electronic device . The support member not only reinforces stiffness of the electronic device but also supports the display device .

The electronic device may include a battery included in the enclosure member for example the molding enclosure and a cover member coupled to a back surface of the molding enclosure to conceal and protect the battery . Inside the enclosure member the support member is positioned to face the battery . For example the battery may be surrounded by the molding enclosure the cover member and the support member . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the cover member may be molded into one piece with the molding enclosure and or the frame enclosure such that the battery may be implemented as an embedded battery that a user cannot directly replace with another one.

The support member is electrically connected with the circuit board for example by contacting the circuit board to provide grounding and shielding to the circuit board . For example the support member may ground some of circuit devices of the electronic device formed on the circuit board such that when the support member is electrically connected with the frame enclosure a leakage current may flow from the circuit board to the frame enclosure via the support member . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the frame enclosure may be insulated from the support member to block leakage current.

For example even when the reinforcement member protrudes from the inner surface of the frame enclosure the molding enclosure may be provided to surround the reinforcement member as well as the inner surface of the frame enclosure inside the enclosure member . Thus the frame enclosure may be insulated from internal circuit devices for example the circuit board or the support member . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a portion of the support member may also be formed of a non conductive material for example synthetic resin . For example in light of an assembly structure if a portion of the frame enclosure is adjacent to a portion of the support member the portion of the support member which is adjacent to the portion of the frame enclosure may be formed of a synthetic resin material. By forming the portion of the support member adjacent to the portion of the frame enclosure using synthetic resin a more stable insulating structure may be formed.

Additional embodiments for insulating the conductive material portion for example the frame enclosure of the enclosure member will be described with reference to . In the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure the same components as those in the preceding embodiments or components that may be easily understood from the preceding embodiments will be given the same reference numerals or omitted and a detailed description thereof will also be omitted.

Referring to an enclosure member may include a molding enclosure made of a first material such as a non conductive material for example synthetic resin and a frame enclosure made of a second material different from the first material such as a conductive material for example metal . The frame enclosure may be integrally formed with the molding enclosure by insert or injection molding. Alternatively the frame enclosure may be formed separately formed from the molding enclosure where the frame enclosure is coupled to the molding enclosure. The frame enclosure couples an outer surface of the molding enclosure in such a way as to surround the outer surface of the molding enclosure and thus the frame enclosure may be concealed in an inner surface of the molding enclosure . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a portion of the frame enclosure may be exposed to the inner side of the enclosure member when a structure for installing the circuit board the support member and various sensor modules is formed in the molding enclosure . Even if the portion of the frame enclosure is exposed to the inner side of the enclosure member the conductive material portion hereinafter referred to as a first portion of the support member may be sufficiently spaced apart from the portion of the frame enclosure by properly setting a fixed position of the support member .

The support member may be formed of a similar conductive material such as metal as the enclosure member to reinforce stiffness of the electronic device . When the support member is made of a conductive material the support member may be electrically connected to the circuit board to provide grounding and shielding. Alternatively when the enclosure member has sufficient stiffness the support member may be formed of a second material different from the conductive material such as synthetic resin to reduce the overall weight of the electronic device . Even when the support member is formed of a synthetic resin a conductive layer may be formed on the surface of the support member by coating or deposition to provide grounding and shielding to the circuit board .

A second portion of the support member may be formed of a non conductive material such as synthetic resin. For example in the current embodiment both ends for example a top end and a bottom end of the support member may be formed of a synthetic resin material such that the first portion and the second portion may form one body. Since the first portion is made of a conductive material such as metal the first portion may be coupled to the second portion simultaneously with molding of the second portion by insert or injection molding. Alternatively the first portion may be formed separately from the second portion where the first portion is coupled to the second portion .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the support member may be electrically connected with the circuit board and the frame enclosure may be insulated from the support member to block leakage current. For example in a portion where the frame enclosure and the support member are likely to contact for example an edge of the support member and an inner surface of the frame enclosure adjacent to the edge of the support member the molding enclosure may be interposed between the frame enclosure and the support member .

Referring to it can be seen that a portion of the molding enclosure is interposed between the support member and the frame enclosure . For example a portion of the molding enclosure adjacent to the edge of the support member is formed by the inner surface of the molding enclosure where the frame enclosure may be positioned outside the portion of the molding enclosure

Referring to the reinforcement member may protrude from the inner surface of the frame enclosure . When the molding enclosure is molded the reinforcement member is enclosed by a material of the molding enclosure and thus may be insulated from the support member . However if an external shock such as falling is applied the four corners of the enclosure member may be prone to damage or deformation. A shock may be concentrated on a smaller area at corners than other portions. If the corners of the enclosure member are damaged or deformed by an external shock the reinforcement member is exposed to the inside of the enclosure member thus contacting the support member . In a typical electronic device if a reinforcement member contacts a support member leakage current may flow to a frame enclosure but the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may block such leakage current. For example even if the reinforcement member contacts the support member due to damage or deformation of the enclosure member a portion of the reinforcement member which contacts the support member is introduced to the second portion thereby preventing the leakage current from flowing to the frame enclosure

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device for example the enclosure member may include a segment portion C formed in the frame enclosure and a protruding portion P formed in the molding enclosure . The segment portion C may be in the form of an opening in which a portion of the frame enclosure is removed. The segment portion C is formed such that the frame enclosure may include multiple nodes arranged along an outer circumferential surface of the enclosure member . Some of the multiple nodes of the frame enclosure may be connected to the circuit board of the electronic device to provide an electric function for example a radiating conductor of an antenna .

The protruding portion P is positioned in the segment portion C such that a portion of the surface of the protruding portion P may form the same surface a curved surface or a flat surface as the surface of the frame enclosure . Since the frame enclosure is coupled to the molding enclosure as soon as the molding enclosure is molded the protruding portion P may also be positioned in the segment portion C simultaneously with molding.

Referring to an enclosure member may include a molding enclosure formed of a non conductive material for example synthetic resin and a pair of frame enclosures formed of a conductive material for example metal . The frame enclosures may be assembled to the molding enclosure after being manufactured separately from the molding enclosure . The frame enclosures are coupled to both side ends of the molding enclosure respectively to partially surround the molding enclosure or partially form a sidewall of the enclosure member . The enclosure member may provide a space for receiving or installing the circuit board a support member various sensor modules and so forth.

The support member may be made of metal to reinforce stiffness of the electronic device for example the enclosure member and may have conductivity. A conductive material portion of the support member hereinafter referred to as a first portion may be electrically connected to the circuit board to provide grounding or shielding. Another portion of the support member hereinafter referred to as a second portion may be formed of a non conductive material such as synthetic resin. For example in the current embodiment of the present disclosure both ends for example a top end and a bottom end of the support member may be formed of a synthetic resin material. Since the first portion is formed of a conductive material such as metal the first portion may be coupled to the second portion as soon as the second portion is molded by insert molding.

Referring to the inner surface of the enclosure member is mostly formed by the molding enclosure and is partially formed by the frame enclosure . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the frame enclosure is assembled to the molding enclosure in which to firmly couple the frame enclosure with the molding enclosure . A portion S of the frame enclosure extends in such a way to enclose a top end of a sidewall of the molding enclosure and is positioned in the inner surface of the enclosure member . For example the molding enclosure may be partially interposed between the frame enclosure and the support member and the frame enclosure and the support member may be partially exposed to each other. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a portion where the frame enclosure and the support member are exposed to each other a sufficient interval I may be secured to prevent the frame enclosure and the support member from being electrically connected to each other.

Referring to a portion of the conductive material portion for example the frame enclosure of the enclosure member is positioned adjacent to the support member . For example the frame enclosure may include a reinforcement member formed on an inner surface thereof in which the reinforcement member is positioned in the inner side of the enclosure member adjacent to or overlappingly with the support member .

If an external shock such as falling is applied to the electronic device the four corners of the enclosure member may be prone to damage or deformation. If the four corners of the enclosure member are damaged or deformed the reinforcement member may more closely contact the support member . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a portion of the reinforcement member contacts the support member due to damage or deformation the enclosure member is guided to the second portion thereby preventing leakage current from flowing to the frame enclosure

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an enclosure member of the electronic device may include a molding enclosure and frame members where the frame members may be coupled to a support member received in the enclosure member .

Referring to the enclosure member may include the molding enclosure made of a non conductive material and the frame members made of a conductive material. The molding enclosure has a shape in which both side ends are open such that the frame members may be coupled to the molding enclosure to form both sidewalls of the enclosure member . The enclosure member may receive the circuit board and the support member . The circuit board may be fixed between the support member and the molding enclosure . The frame members may be coupled to both side ends of the support member in a slide manner. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure as best illustrated in a guide rib extending longitudinally may be formed at both side ends of the support member . Moreover a guide groove corresponding to the guide rib may be formed on the inner surfaces of the respective frame members . As the frame members slide at both side ends of the support member along a direction in which the guide groove receives the guide rib the frame members may be coupled to both side ends of the support member respectively. The support member may be fixed to the molding enclosure by using an engagement member such as a screw not shown . As the support member is fixed to the molding enclosure each of the frame members may be coupled to a side end of the molding enclosure to complete the enclosure member .

The support member may be made of a conductive material such as metal to reinforce stiffness of the electronic device . In addition the enclosure member may be electrically connected to the circuit board to provide grounding and shielding. By providing grounding and shielding with the use of the support member made of the conductive material the operation stability of the electronic device may be improved.

The support member may be partially made of a synthetic resin material. For example in the current embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of both ends for example a top end and a bottom end of the support member may be made of a synthetic resin material. If the support member is formed of a combination of the conductive material and the synthetic resin material as soon as a synthetic resin material portion hereinafter referred to as a second portion of the support member is molded by insert molding the conductive material portion hereinafter referred to as a first portion of the support member may be coupled to the synthetic resin material portion. If the frame member is formed of a conductive material such as metal and the first portion of the support member is also formed of the conductive material then the second portion of the support member may be formed of the synthetic resin material such that the second portion may provide the lubricity of a slide operation when the frame member is slidably coupled to the support member .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may stably maintain a state in which the frame member is coupled to the support member . For example as shown in a binding protrusion may be formed in the support member and a biding groove may be formed in the frame member . When the frame member is completely coupled to the support member the binding protrusion may be engaged with the binding groove to completely fix the frame member to the support member . When the binding protrusion is not engaged with the binding groove the frame member may be deformed into a shape in which the guide groove becomes wider. For example if the binding protrusion is not engaged with the binding groove when the guide groove at least partially receives the guide rib then an inner wall of the guide groove may be spaced apart from an outer circumferential surface of the guide rib . Hence when the frame member is slidably coupled to the support member the frame member may smoothly slide.

As mentioned previously the support member may be electrically connected to the circuit board and the frame member may be insulated from the support member to block leakage current. For example an insulator may be disposed between the frame member and the support member in a portion where the frame member and the support member are in direct contact. In the current embodiment the portion where the frame member and the support member directly contact may include an outer circumferential surface of the guide rib and an inner wall of the guide groove . Moreover considering deformation caused by an external shock or the like an insulator may be provided to a region adjacent to the portion in which the frame member and the support member directly contact each other.

Referring to an insulator may be formed on the outer circumferential surface of the guide rib a partial surface of the support member adjacent to the outer circumferential surface an inner wall of the guide groove and a partial surface of the frame member adjacent to the inner wall. The insulator may be implemented as insulation films and including painting coating anodizing or the like. When the frame member slides so as to be coupled to the support member the binding protrusion may come in contact with the frame member as mentioned above. As the binding protrusion contacts the frame member the guide groove may become wider thereby preventing the outer circumferential surface of the guide rib and the inner wall of the guide groove from directly rubbing together. For example when the frame member slides so as to be coupled to the support member the direct friction is suppressed during sliding thus preventing damage of the insulation film and .

The binding protrusion is engaged with the binding groove to fix the frame member to a predetermined position. When the binding member is made of a conductive material the binding member may be a path for electrically connecting the frame member with the support member . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the binding protrusion may be formed in the second portion for example a non conductive material portion of the support member thereby blocking leakage current flowing to the frame member

Referring to an enclosure member may be formed of a conductive material. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the enclosure member formed of a conductive material may include an insulating layer formed on an inner surface . The insulating layer may be formed by painting coating anodizing or the like. If the enclosure member is made of a conductive material for example a metallic material to have sufficient stiffness a support member received in the enclosure member may be formed of synthetic resin. If the support member is formed of a synthetic resin material to have non conductivity a conductive layer may be formed on the surface of the support member to improve the operation stability of the electronic device.

As the enclosure member is made of a conductive material grounding or shielding may be provided to circuit devices for example the circuit board received in the electronic device by using the enclosure member . For example by forming at least one ground structures GND for connecting the enclosure member to a grounding portion G of the circuit board the enclosure member may provide grounding or shielding. When the enclosure member is connected to the grounding portion G a connection member such as a C clip is provided on the circuit board to directly contact the enclosure member . The connection member may be connected to the grounding portion G through a printed circuit pattern formed on the circuit board for example a grounding line .

If the enclosure member is connected to the grounding portion G of the circuit board leakage current from direct current may flow to the enclosure member . For example when a charging plug is connected to a charging terminal for example an interface connector provided on the circuit board the charging terminal and the enclosure member directly contact or direct current may be left in the enclosure member from the circuit board through a path for connecting the enclosure member to the grounding portion G.

As mentioned above the insulating layer may be formed on the inner surface of the enclosure member . When the circuit board is mounted and fixed on the enclosure member the charging terminal may be positioned on the insulating layer . Thus direct current flowing to the enclosure member through the charging terminal may be blocked by the insulating layer . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the grounding line for example a path for connecting the grounding portion G with the connection member may include a capacitive element . The capacitive element repeats charging and discharging by alternate current but blocks direct current thus preventing the direct current from being left in the enclosure member .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device includes an enclosure member at least a portion of which is formed of a conductive material and a support member which is received in the enclosure and at least a portion of which is formed of a conductive material in which the conductive material portion of the enclosure member and the conductive material portion of the support member are insulated from each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the enclosure member may include a molding enclosure which is formed of a non conductive material to receive the support member and a frame enclosure which is formed of a conductive material to enclose at least a portion of an outer surface of the molding enclosure.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the frame enclosure may be coupled to the molding enclosure into one piece by insert molding and the molding enclosure may be interposed between the conductive material portion of the support member and the frame enclosure for insulation.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a segment portion formed in the frame enclosure and a protruding portion formed in the molding enclosure to be disposed in the segment portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the frame enclosure may be provided to enclose at least a side surface of the molding enclosure and the frame enclosure may be assembled to a position spaced apart from the support member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a portion of the molding enclosure may be interposed between the frame enclosure and the support member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the conductive material portion of the enclosure member may be at least partially adjacent to the support member and a portion of the support member which is adjacent to the conductive material portion of the enclosure member may be formed of a non conductive material.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the enclosure member may include four corners and a portion of the conductive material portion of the enclosure member may be adjacent to a portion of the support member in at least one of the four corners.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the enclosure member may include a molding enclosure coupled to face the support member and a frame member formed of a conductive material to be coupled to the support member and to form a sidewall of the molding enclosure in which the frame member is slidably coupled to the support member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a guide rib formed at both side ends of the support member and a guide groove extending longitudinally from an inner surface of the frame member in which the guide groove slides in such a way to enclose the guide rib.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an outer circumferential surface of the guide rib and an insulation film formed on an inner wall of the guide groove may insulate the support member from the frame member in which the outer circumferential surface of the guide rib and the inner wall of the guide groove at least contact each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the insulation film may include painting coating or anodizing.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a binding protrusion formed in the support member and a binding groove formed in the frame member in which when the frame member is completely coupled to the support member the binding protrusion is engaged to the binding groove to fix the frame member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the frame member is slidably coupled to the support member the binding protrusion may come in contact with the frame member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a circuit board received in the enclosure member in which the conductive material part of the support member is connected to the circuit board to provide grounding of the circuit board.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a connection member connected to a grounding portion of the circuit board and a capacitive element provided in a grounding line between the connection member and the grounding portion in which the connection member contacts the conductive material portion of the enclosure member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a display device disposed on a surface of the support member and a circuit device disposed on the other surface of the support member.

When the method S for manufacturing an electronic device is described with reference to a structure of the electronic device will be described using the structure of the electronic device and reference numerals may be omitted.

Referring to the method S may include an operation S of manufacturing an enclosure member an operation S of manufacturing a support member and an operation S of receiving the support member.

The operation S of manufacturing the enclosure member is a process of coupling the molding enclosure and the frame enclosure to each other in which the enclosure member may be completed by insert or injection molding or assembly according to structures of the molding enclosure the frame enclosure. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the enclosure member may be made in such a way that at least a portion of the enclosure member for example the frame enclosure may be formed of a conductive material such as metal. Another portion of the enclosure member for example the molding enclosure may be formed of a non conductive material such as synthetic resin.

If the frame enclosure is formed of a conductive material such as metal the frame enclosure is manufactured first and then is inserted into a mold for molding the molding enclosure to form the molding enclosure and at the same time the molding enclosure and the frame enclosure are coupled to each other thus completing the enclosure member. The molding enclosure and the frame enclosure may be separately manufactured and then may be coupled through assembly to complete the enclosure member. A way to couple the frame enclosure to the molding enclosure may be properly selected considering the specification or structure of each product.

In operation S the support member may be manufactured. Although operation S is performed in succession to operation S of manufacturing the enclosure member in the enclosure member and the support member are manufactured independently such that an order of operations is not necessarily specified. For example in independent processes the enclosure member and the support member may be manufactured at the same time or the support member may be manufactured before the enclosure member. The support member may reinforce the stiffness of the electronic device for example the enclosure member and support the circuit board or the display device received in the enclosure member. To reinforce the stiffness of the enclosure member the support member may be at least partially formed of a metallic material for example a conductive material. The conductive material portion of the support member may be formed of die casting or lathe machining and for a non conductive material portion such as synthetic resin other than the conductive material portion the non conductive material portion may be formed by insert molding in which the conductive material portion is inserted into a mold.

In operation S the support member may be received in the enclosure member. The support member is fixed in the enclosure member in which the conductive material portion of the support member and the conductive material portion of the enclosure member may be insulated from each other. For example a portion of the molding enclosure may be interposed between the conductive material portion of the support member and the frame enclosure.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure operations S and S may be performed at the same time according to the structures of the enclosure member and the support member. For example in an embodiment disclosed in among the above described embodiments the frame enclosure is slidably coupled to the support member and the support member is coupled to the molding enclosure and at the same time the frame enclosure is coupled to the molding enclosure. For example although the method S is described in which operation S of manufacturing the enclosure member operation S of manufacturing the support member and operation S of receiving the support member are sequentially performed an order of operations may be properly changed according to the structures of the enclosure member and the support member.

In the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a portion of the enclosure member forming the exterior is manufactured using a conductive material for example metal thus making the exterior elegant and blocking an electric leakage to the conductive material portion because of being insulated from portions inside the enclosure member.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

