---

title: Traffic causality
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems for providing congestion information for a road segment presently experiencing traffic congestion and/or likely to experience traffic congestion in the future are provided. In some embodiments, traffic models are configured to determine road segments where traffic congestion is likely to occur, to determine a cause of traffic congestion, and/or to determine the effect of such traffic congestion (e.g., the duration of such traffic congestion, the expected time delays due to such traffic congestion, etc.). Congestion information indicative of the cause of congestion and/or the effect(s) of such traffic congestion, for example, may be provided to a user to explain to the user why the congestion is occurring, to describe one or more road segments to avoid, and/or to explain why a particular route was selected as a preferred route to a destination, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09601009&OS=09601009&RS=09601009
owner: INRIX INC.
number: 09601009
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150219
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 839 039 titled TRAFFIC CAUSALITY and filed on Mar. 15 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Numerous factors can contribute to traffic congestion and impact travel times such as time of day local concert events weather road constructions accidents etc. Such congestion frequently leads users e.g. drivers to become frustrated and to seek alternate routes without information regarding the cause of the traffic congestion. In some cases a user may reroute his her vehicle to an alternate route only to discover the alternate route is also congested.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques are described herein for communicating congestion information regarding traffic congestion to a user. The congestion information describes one or more causes of present traffic congestion and or expected future traffic congestion along a road segment and may provide other details that assist the user in evaluating alternatives to reduce the impact of the traffic congestion on a user s commute. For example the congestion information may describe the expected wait time e.g. how long it will be until the congestion has dissipated and or how long it will be until the user passes a cause of the congestion and thus resumes a more normal commute etc. and or alternate routes the user may consider to avoid the congestion.

In some embodiments one or more traffic models are utilized to forecast traffic congestion and or to predict a cause of the traffic congestion. For example a first traffic model may be configured to model traffic along one or more road segments based upon the time of day. A second traffic model may be configured to model traffic along one or more road segments based upon local events that are taking place e.g. professional sporting events concerts etc. . Another traffic model may be configured to model traffic along one or more road segments given various accident scenarios etc. By evaluating the outputs of these models traffic congestion along one or more road segments can be forecasted and or a cause s of the congestion may be predicted. Moreover congestion information explaining the cause s e.g. as determined from the modeling may be provided to a user. In this way the system can provide reasons that a particular route set of roads neighborhoods etc. should be avoided and or can provide reasons why a user is presently stuck in traffic for example.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and or novel features of the disclosure may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Users often rely on navigation software to navigate the user from a starting location to an ending location. The navigation software typically evaluates various alternate routes between the starting location and the ending location to identify one or more preferred routes that more closely satisfy specified route criteria e.g. relative to the remaining alternate routes . Typically the one or more preferred routes are the temporally shortest routes e.g. fastest route although other route criteria may be designated for consideration e.g. spatially shortest routes temporally shortest routes that avoid toll roads etc. .

It may be appreciated that due to among other things the time of day accidents weather construction road closures local events at venues etc. the estimated travel time along one or more road segments may fluctuate. In recent years some navigation software has begun to recognize the dynamic nature of traffic congestion and to plan routes according to present traffic conditions and or expected traffic conditions at the time of a commute. For example the navigation software may be configured to receive real time traffic data indicative of vehicle density vehicle speed or other measures of traffic congestion from one or more traffic sensors and to utilize such traffic data to estimate travel times along corresponding road segments and or to utilize such traffic data when evaluating various alternate routes. As an example the navigation software may forecast traffic congestion along one or more road segments e.g. based upon the time of day and evaluate the various alternate routes when consideration is given to estimated traffic congestion e.g. and associated travel times . Accordingly the navigation software may identify a first route as the preferred route if the user intends to make the commute at 2 pm and may identify a second route as the preferred route if the user intends to make the commute at 6 pm.

While navigation software has recently begun to take present traffic congestion and or expected traffic congestion at the time of a commute into account when evaluating routes to identify a preferred route s the navigation software typically does not explain to the user why a particular route was selected as the preferred route. Moreover if a user experiences congestion along a route little to no information is typically provided to the user to explain the cause s of the traffic congestion and or other details regarding the congestion e.g. such as how long the user is expected to be in the congestion .

Accordingly systems and or techniques for providing a user with congestion information describing the cause s for traffic congestion along a road segment and or other information pertinent to the traffic congestion are provided. By way of example the congestion information can further provide a reason s why a particular route was selected and or provide a reason s why a particular road segment should be avoided.

In some embodiments in addition to providing a reason s for traffic congestion and or for selecting a particular route s as the preferred route s the congestion information may include other information that assists the driver in making an informed decision regarding the route e.g. to evaluate whether to turn around to cancel plans to take an alternate route etc. . For example the congestion information may include information regarding how long the traffic congestion is expected to last and or may provide updates regarding the cause of the traffic congestion. As an example the congestion information may include alternate routes that the user may consider and or estimated travel times for such alternate routes. In this way the user is informed about a situation along one or more road segments which may reduce or alleviate frustration caused by the traffic congestion for example.

Turning to an exemplary scenario where congestion information for a road segment may be provided to a user is described. In this exemplary scenario some users that are operating vehicles on a road may encounter traffic congestion. For example users traveling along a first road segment of the road may encounter little to no traffic congestion e.g. and be in free flow while users traveling along one or more other road segments of the road may encounter high levels traffic congestion. Such traffic congestion may occur due to high vehicle volumes along the one or more road segments e.g. such as experienced during rush hour and or experienced due a local event such as concert football game etc. accidents road construction road hazards e.g. a pothole animal debris etc. inclement weather etc. In this exemplary scenario an accident in the high speed lane of the road proximate a second road segment has created congestion that extends from the second road segment through to a fourth road segment .

To monitor real time e.g. present traffic congestion the exemplary scenario comprises reporting devices positioned along the road segments . Such reporting devices may include among other things radar sensors laser sensors in road electromagnetic sensors and or other sensors configured to measure a speed of vehicles monitor vehicle headway e.g. distance and or time between vehicles passing a fixed point and or count a number of vehicles per unit time for example. As an example the reporting devices may include video cameras or other multimedia sensors e.g. configured to produce still images audio files etc. . Traffic data collected by such reporting devices may be provided to a traffic service configured to estimate traffic congestion for respective road segments of the road .

Alternatively or in addition similar information may be collected via crowd sourcing techniques. For example mobiles devices such as cellular telephones tablets laptops and or in vehicle units may comprise location sensing equipment e.g. global positioning satellite GPS chips accelerometers cellular triangulation equipment etc. configured to detect a present state of the vehicle e.g. location speed of travel etc. and or may comprise reporting equipment e.g. data transceivers voice transceivers etc. configured to report such information to the traffic service . Utilizing e.g. with user permission a network of such mobiles devices and or in vehicle units the traffic service may estimate traffic congestion on road segments where such mobile devices and or vehicles are traveling. In this way dedicated equipment positioned along the side of and or within a road segment may not be required to collect such traffic data and or traffic data provided by such equipment may be supplemented with traffic data yielded from mobile devices and or in vehicle units for example.

In the exemplary scenario the traffic service is configured to determine a cause of congestion when the information provided by one or more of the reporting devices indicates that the degree of traffic congestion exceeds a specified threshold e.g. where vehicle speed vehicle volume vehicle density and or other measures of congestion may be utilized to estimate a degree of traffic congestion . By way of example the accident along the second road segment may cause reporting devices to indicate a 20 decrease in traffic speed along the second route segment the third route segment and the fourth route segment e.g. which may be indicative of moderate congestion .

In response to receiving an indication that traffic congestion has risen above a specified threshold the traffic service may seek to identify a possible cause s of the congestion and or to determine other information about the cause s using various techniques. For example in some embodiments a crowd sourcing technique may be utilized in which the traffic service is in operable communication with one or more users via the users mobile devices vehicle units etc. Such devices and or units may intermittently provide location information indicative of the user s location to the traffic service via a communication device for example. When traffic above the specified threshold is identified along one or more road segment the traffic service may identify users within a desired geometric proximity of the congested road segment s and may issue a request to users for information regarding the congestion. For example the traffic service may determine that the traffic congestion starts proximate the second road segment and thus may issue a request to users within the second road segment and or neighboring road segments asking users if they are aware of what might be causing the congestion. In response one or more users who are visually able to identify the accident may communicate back to the traffic service information regarding the accident such as via the communication device . Such information may include a location of the accident number of vehicles involved in the accident whether any lanes are blocked due to the accident whether emergency personnel are at the accident the severity of the accident and or other information from which the traffic service may assess the likely length of the delay and or expected magnitude of traffic congestion e.g. for how many miles traffic is expected to be backed up due to the accident . In other embodiments users may provide such information to the traffic service without being prompted to do so e.g. by the traffic service . In some such embodiments the traffic service may further receive the indication of congestion from the user e.g. the user notifies the traffic service of an accident which may also include an indication that congestion is moderate due to the accident .

The traffic service may alternatively or additionally utilize other methods to determine the cause of the traffic congestion. By way of example the traffic service may be configured to receive information from one or more data sources such as associated with emergency services e.g. local emergency dispatch centers police agencies etc. towing companies media outlets social networking websites etc. and to evaluate such information to determine a likely cause of the traffic congestion. By way of example the traffic service may be in operable communication with an entity that maintains a social networking website. When the traffic service seeks to determine a cause of traffic congestion along the road the traffic service may communicate with the social networking website to determine whether any users in the vicinity of the second road segment recently posted a message about the traffic congestion and or about a potential cause of traffic congestion. The traffic service may discover that a user recently posted a message e.g. status update describing a recent accident the user observed and the message is geo tagged with a location proximate the second road segment . Based upon such information the traffic service may predict that an accident is the cause of such congestion.

The traffic service may alternatively or additionally utilize one or more models to predict a cause of the congestion and or to supplement the information received via crowd sourcing and or via the data sources. By way of example a first model may be configured to forecast whether the time of day is causing traffic congestion along one or more of the road segments e.g. is it rush hour and if so is rush hour contributing to congestion . A second model may be configured to forecast whether present weather conditions are causing traffic congestion along one or more road segments . A third model may be configured to forecast whether a nearby event at a local venue is causing traffic congestion along one or more road segments . A fourth model may be configured to forecast how various traffic accident scenarios might affect traffic congestion e.g. to determine whether a traffic accident is the likely cause . The traffic service may be configured to evaluate the output of respective models to determine a likely cause of the traffic. By way of example the probability that weather is the cause of traffic congestion along a road segment may be low e.g. because it is presently sunny and warm and the probability that an accident is the cause of traffic congestion along the road segment may be high. Accordingly the traffic service may predict that an accident is the most likely cause of the congestion.

Based upon the identification or prediction regarding a cause of the traffic congestion the traffic service may publish congestion information descriptive of the cause such as via the communication device . Such congestion information may include a cause of the congestion e.g. accident near mile marker expected time delays due to the congestion alternate routes to avoid the congestion and or other information that may be useful to users and or route planners. By way of example the congestion information may include a present status of the cause e.g. the accident is presently blocking the high speed lane emergency personnel have arrived at the scene the accident has been moved to a shoulder of the road etc. . Moreover in some embodiments the congestion information may be customized to a specific user. For example the congestion information may include information about a spatial relationship e.g. distance between the user and the accident may include information about how long the user is expected to be in the congestion and or may suggest alternate routes specific to the user e.g. in order for the user to arrive at a desired destination .

The example method begins at and information indicative of traffic congestion is received at . The information may be provided from one or more of a plurality of sources such as for example dedicated traffic sensors e.g. configured to measure vehicle speed vehicle headway vehicle counts etc. along one or more road segments mobile devices associated with one or more users sensors within vehicles news media databases e.g. detailing daily traffic congestion social networking databases e.g. where a user may post a message expressing frustration regarding congestion along one or more routes etc. . Such information may include traffic data e.g. indicative of vehicle speed vehicle volume vehicle density etc. and or a notice regarding specific areas where traffic congestion is occurring. By way of example the traffic service may receive a notice from a client device associated with a user. Such a notice may be indicative of the presence of traffic congestion along a road segment and request that the traffic service investigate a cause of the congestion for example.

While reporting devices such as dedicated traffic sensors may provide information indicative of present traffic patterns and or indicative of present traffic congestion in some embodiment the information received at may be indicative of traffic congestion that is forecasted for some time in the future. By way of example a concert may be expected to draw large crowds to a venue which is expected to impact road segments spatially proximate to the venue. In some embodiments one or more traffic models may be configured to receive information relating to a future event such as the concert and to forecast traffic patterns in view of the event. For example a traffic model may forecast that in the hour leading up to the concert road segments spatially proximate to the concert are expected to experience a degree of traffic congestion that exceeds a specified threshold e.g. the concert is expected to impact travel times the one or more road segments . In such embodiments information corresponding to such forecast may be provided at . In some embodiments human operators may be responsible for estimating whether one or more road segments are likely to experience traffic congestion due to a future event and may be responsible for inputting such estimates into a map database. Accordingly in such embodiments the estimates and or other information related to the estimates may be received at .

At in the example method a cause of the traffic congestion is predicted or determined. Such a cause s may include road hazards accidents construction weather related road conditions events at local venues e.g. sporting events concerts conferences parades etc. etc. at times collectively referred to generically as events .

Various techniques may be devised to predict or determine a cause of traffic. By way of example where the traffic congestion was forecasted by a model the model may further provide an explanation for the forecasted traffic congestion. By way of example the model may indicate that the forecasted congestion is due to a local sporting event due to rush hour due to a road closure etc. and or due to the combination of two or more events e.g. the traffic congestion is due to increased traffic volume caused by rush hour occurring at the same time as attendees are arriving to a concert . Likewise where a human operator forecasted that traffic congestion was likely to occur along one or more road segments the human operator may further provide an indication as to why the traffic congestion is likely to occur. Accordingly the prediction may be the result of information provided by the model and or the human operation.

In some embodiments where the prediction is reactionary e.g. the traffic congestion has already occurred and the traffic service is attempting to understand why other and or supplemental techniques may be utilized to predict a cause of traffic. By way of example the traffic service may be configured to receive input from one or more users offering explanations for the congestion and or explaining events that the user has experienced. By way of example respective users of the traffic service may load an application corresponding to the traffic service onto a mobile device. Such an application may include a report feature that facilitates users reporting congestion and or reporting potential causes of congestion. By way of example users may be able to use the report feature to report accidents road hazards construction or other events along one or more road segments. As an example users may be able to upload multimedia files e.g. photos of an accident or other event to the traffic service. The traffic service may then correlate such reports and or files to locations where traffic congestion has been experienced to predict the cause of the traffic congestion.

In some embodiments the cause of traffic may be predicted manually or programmatically based upon information provided from one or more data sources. By way of example human operators may be responsible for reviewing data provided by emergency services news outlets government agencies local venues social media outlets etc. and responsible for predicting determining a cause of present traffic congestion based upon such a review. As an example a human operator may monitor audio transmission of emergency services transportation officials and or vehicle assistance providers e.g. good Samaritan vehicles tow companies etc. to identify potential causes of traffic congestion along one or more road segments. As another example the human operator may review social media websites and or websites of media outlets to determine whether information is being posted to such websites that may indicate the cause of the traffic. As another example websites of one or more venues may be reviewed by a human operator to determine whether a major concert sporting event performance etc. is likely the cause of the traffic congestion.

Predictions made by a human operator may be entered into a map database which describes the location of the event e.g. accident road hazard sporting event etc. and or other information pertaining to the event e.g. such as when the congestion is expected to dissipate a present state of the event e.g. an accident is blocking a lane of traffic emergency officials have shut down a road segment the accident has been moved to the shoulder etc. that may be useful to users presently stuck in the traffic congestion and or users who are being provided alternate routes due to traffic congestion for example.

In some embodiments the cause of traffic may be predicted programmatically. For example programs may be developed that are configured to perform the foregoing tasks of human operators. A web crawler for example may be designed to crawl webpages associated with an emergency service a media outlet a government traffic agency event venues social media services etc. to identify keywords that may be useful for predicting the cause of the traffic congestion. As an example event schedules posted to a webpage associated with an event venue and or a ticketing service may be crawled to determine if any local concert event or sporting event are occurring that may be impacting traffic volumes and or traffic congestion. As another example social media webpages may be crawled to determine if one or more users are posting messages geo tagged at a location proximate the congestion and or describing an event e.g. accident road hazard etc. that may contribute to traffic congestion.

In some embodiments one or more models may be used to predict the cause of the traffic congestion. By way of example as will be further described with respect to various traffic models may be devised for predicting traffic congestion or for predicting expected traffic patterns when provided a set of input conditions where the set of input conditions to a first model may be different than a set of input conditions to a second model for example. By way of example a first traffic model may be configured to receive historical traffic data and may be configured to develop an algorithm that correlates traffic patterns indicated in the historical traffic data with time of day day of week day of year etc. In this way the first traffic model can develop an algorithm that forecasts whether the time of day has an impact on traffic congestion for one or more road segments e.g. and determine whether traffic congestion is routine on the stretch of the road segment at a particular time of day . A second traffic model may be configured to receive historical traffic data and event schedules to develop an algorithm that forecasts whether local events at a venue may be impacting traffic congestion. A third traffic model may be configured to receive historical traffic data and historical accident data to develop an algorithm that forecasts whether one or more accident scenarios would likely impact traffic congestion. A fourth traffic model may be configured to receive historical traffic data and historical weather data to develop an algorithm that forecasts whether present weather conditions or future weather conditions are likely to have an impact on traffic congestion etc.

Using such forecasts and present traffic data a prediction may be made regarding the cause of the traffic congestion. By way of example the traffic model that takes into consideration weather may indicate that there is a high probability that present weather conditions are increasing traffic congestion. Accordingly present weather conditions along the road segment may be predicted as the cause of the traffic congestion. As another example the traffic model that takes into consideration local events may indicate that there is a high probability that a profession baseball game at a nearby stadium is increasing traffic congestion. As such the traffic congestion may be attributed to the baseball game. In some embodiments the traffic congestion may be predicted to be the cause of multiple events occurring concurrently. By way of example no one event or model may explain the traffic congestion that is being experienced along the road segment e.g. as determined based upon the traffic data . However the combination of multiple events e.g. such as a rush hour event in combination with an accident and or the combination of the output of models pertaining to such events may explain such traffic congestion. Thus the rush hour event and the accident in combination may be predicted as the cause of the event for example.

At in the example method congestion information indicative of the cause of the traffic congestion is provided to the user such as via one or more client devices associated with a user s . Such client devices may include among other things cellular telephones tablets laptops in head vehicle units e.g. display systems mounted inside a vehicle vehicle dashboard or windshield displays eyewear other wearable intelligent computing display etc. devices e.g. watches jewelry etc. etc. configured to provide such congestion information visually tactually and or aurally for example.

In some embodiments such congestion information may be provided in conjunction with an update to an estimated time of arrival an update to a preferred route and or as part of the selection of the preferred route e.g. where the present or forecasted traffic congestion affected the selection of the preferred route and or the estimated time of arrival for the preferred route . By way of example a route planner may be configured to consider present and or forecasted traffic congestion when selecting a preferred route. If the preferred route is selected due in part to the present and or forecasted traffic congestion e.g. and a different route would have been selected but for the traffic congestion the route planner may be further configured to provide the congestion information to the user explaining why the preferred route was chosen. For example the route planner may explain to the user that an event scheduled to take place in 2 hours is likely to increase travel times along a road segment and or may explain that the preferred route was selected to avoid the road segment. As another example a route planner may recognize that the user is traveling slower than expected and may update the estimated time of arrival to reflect the slower travel. The route planner may also provide the user with congestion information explaining to the user why the user may be traveling at the slower rate of speed. For example the route planner may explain to the user that an accident two miles ahead is causing the traffic congestion and reducing vehicle speeds along the road segment.

In some embodiments the congestion information may be provided to the user independently of whether the user is presently using a route planner to route the user. By way of example a traffic service may be configured to receive periodic and or intermittent updates from a client device regarding the user s present location. Based upon such updates the traffic service may determine that the user is approaching the traffic congestion and or experiencing the traffic congestion and may provide the congestion information to the user in response to such a determination e.g. which may be provided via an in app messaging service SMS based messaging service voice communication etc. . In some embodiments congestion information may be provided to users that are known to travel the road segment when the congestion is occurring and or users that have registered as being within a particular geographic region. In some embodiments the congestion information may be provided upon request e.g. a user may request information regarding traffic congestion along one or more road segments and or may be published to a webpage for example that users can access to view such congestion information.

The congestion information may also include other information related to the traffic congestions instead of and or in addition to the cause s of the traffic congestion. By way of example a length of time that an event ends the length of time before such traffic congestion is expected to dissipate an expected travel time along the road segment an expected time delay along the road segment and or a present status or condition of the event may be indicated in the congestion information. By way of example the congestion information may include information describing whether an accident is blocking any lanes of a road segment whether emergency responders are on the scene and or the severity of the accident. As an example the congestion information may include multimedia files related to the event. For example a user near the accident may take a photo of the accident and upload it to the traffic service and or to a social networking website and the congestion information may include the photo e.g. so that other users can visualize the accident or other event . As another example the congestion information may include links to news media outlets and or forums e.g. such as social media webpages where users are discussing the traffic congestion and or the event. As another example one or more traffic models may be configured to forecast when the traffic congestion is expected to dissipate e.g. to free flow and or be reduced and such a forecast may be included in the provided congestion information.

In some embodiments the provided congestion information may be user specific e.g. customized to the user . For example the congestion information may describe how long it is expected to be before the user breaks free from the traffic congestion and or may describe a spatial relationship between the user and the event that is causing the traffic congestion e.g. the accident is 2 miles ahead or the user is expected to break free from the congestion in 1 mile . As another example the congestion information may include one or more alternate routes the user may consider taking to break free of the traffic congestion to avoid the traffic congestion and or to reduce estimated travel time to a destination in view of the traffic congestion for example.

The example method begins at and input conditions are provided to one or more traffic models at . At respective traffic models are configured to compute a probability that the input conditions provided to the traffic model are contributing or are likely to contribute to traffic congestion in the future. By way of example a first model may be configured to compute a probability that traffic congestion is likely to occur due to the time of day e.g. where time of day may be the input condition for the first model . A second model may be configured to compute a probability that traffic congestion is likely to occur due to weather conditions e.g. where a weather forecast and or present weather data may be the input condition s for the second model . A third model may be configured to compute a probability that traffic congestion is likely to occur due to local events at one or more venues e.g. where event schedules ticket sales or other information about a local event may be the input condition s for the third model . A fourth model may be configured to compute a probability that traffic congestion is likely to occur due to road construction e.g. where road construction data such as provided by a traffic authority may be the input condition s for the fourth model . A fifth model may be configured to compute a probability that traffic congestion is likely to occur due to possible accidents e.g. where various accident scenarios may be the input condition s for the fifth model . Other models may receive other input conditions such as road hazard scenarios and or a combination of input conditions provided to one or more other models e.g. such as time of day and event schedules for example.

At a cause of the traffic congestion is determined based upon the probability computed by respective models. In some embodiments such a determination is made using an absolute threshold. For example events associated with traffic models that output a probability of 80 of more may be determined to be the likely cause of present or future traffic congestion e.g. where one or more events may be determined to concurrently contribute to traffic congestion . By way of example a traffic model may be configured to compute a probability that a conference at a venue is contributing to traffic congestion e.g. where the conference is the event associated with the traffic model . The traffic model may forecast that there is a 90 probability of traffic congestion along a road segment due to the conference. Accordingly the conference may be identified at as the cause of the example.

In other embodiments such a determination is made using a relative threshold. For example an event associated with a traffic model that outputs the highest probability may be determined to be the likely cause of present or future traffic congestion.

In still other embodiments other approaches may be used to determine the cause of traffic congestion based upon the probability computed by respective models. For example a set of rules may be devised that provides that if no probability exceeds a specified threshold events associated with the two traffic models that output the two highest probabilities are identified as both contributing to the traffic congestion. As another example a set of rules may be devised that provides that events associated with traffic models that output probabilities that are within a specified deviation of the highest probability are grouped with the event associated with the traffic model having the highest probability as all contributing to the traffic congestion.

The example system comprises a notification component a modeling component an event identifier a user monitoring component and a publication component . It is to be appreciated that while the example system comprises the foregoing components other systems may be devised that include other components and or that do not include at least some of the foregoing components. By way of example in some embodiments the system may not comprise a user monitoring component and or a notification component . Also one or more of the components and or other components may be combined.

The notification component is configured to receive traffic data and or other information that indicates the possibility of traffic congestion along a road segment. By way of example traffic data indicative of vehicle speeds vehicle volume and or vehicle density along the road segment may be received from one or more reporting devices and used to estimate a degree of traffic congestion if any . As an example the system may receive a notice or a report from a client device e.g. such as via the communication device indicating that the user is presently experiencing traffic congestion. Using such traffic data notices and or reports the notification component may be configured to identify a road segment where traffic congestion is presently occurring for example.

The modeling component is configured to develop traffic models for forecasting whether one or more events e.g. a sporting event accident weather etc. are likely cause traffic congestion. The purpose of developing such models may depend upon what information is known and what information is sought to be known. By way of example in some embodiments the presence of traffic congestion along a road segment may be known while the cause of traffic congestion is unknown. According the traffic models may forecast an extent to which traffic congestion is likely to occur given various event scenarios e.g. various accident scenarios present weather data information known about local event occurring spatially proximate the road segment various road hazard scenario etc. e.g. such as described in the example method of . One or more event scenarios may be predicted to be the most likely cause of the traffic congestion or contributing to traffic congestion.

In some embodiments a cause of traffic congestion along a road segment may be known and the traffic models may be developed to forecast the future behavior of such traffic congestion. By way of example it may be known e.g. based upon information collected from one or more data sources reports from users an identification of an event scenario etc. that road construction along the northbound side of a highway is creating the traffic congestion. Accordingly such models may utilize the event e.g. the road construction as an input and may forecast a likely time delay due to the road construction an estimated time when the traffic congestion will dissipate and or an expected magnitude of the congestion e.g. how many miles of roadway are likely to be impacted due to the congestion for example.

In some embodiments a future event may be known and traffic models may be developed to forecast the impact of such an event of road segments e.g. to forecast future traffic congestion . For example it may be known that a baseball game is scheduled for tomorrow evening and one or more traffic models may be developed to identify a road segment s spatially proximate the stadium where traffic congestion is likely to occur due to the baseball game e.g. so that users and or route planning software can avoid the road segment s where traffic congestion is likely . Other information that can be derived from such forecast may include an estimated time delay along the road segment due to the sporting event an estimated time when the traffic congestion will dissipate and or an expected magnitude of the congestion for example.

The information output by the modeling component may be used by the event identifier to identify an event s that is likely causing traffic and or may be used by the publication component to provide the user with congestion information that may be useful to the user e.g. such as a likely time delay due to the event an estimated time when the traffic congestion will dissipate etc. .

The event identifier is configured to identify one or more events that are at least one of causing traffic congestion along a road segment or likely to cause traffic congestion along the road segment. In some embodiment the event may be known and thus the identification is relatively straightforward. For example where future congestion is being predicted the event may be known e.g. and used by the traffic models to forecast traffic congestion . In some embodiments the event may be unknown and the event identifier may use the output of the traffic models developed by the modeling component to identify an event s that is likely to be causing the traffic congestion e.g. as further described in the example method of . In some embodiments the event identifier may be configured to receive information from various other sources e.g. apart from the modeling component to identify predict an event s that is causing the traffic congestion. For example the event identifier may be configured to crawl social networking websites and or news media outlet websites to collect data from which to make such an identification prediction.

The user monitoring component is configured to monitor a location of the user or rather a location of a client device associated with the user. By way of example client devices may upload location information and or route information e.g. descriptive of a route a user intends to travel to the system via the communication device . Using this information the user monitoring component can identify users that are located on a road segment experiencing traffic congestion and or that are expected to encounter traffic congestion during the route. In some embodiments such user identifications can be provided to the publication component so that the publication component can target the congestion information to users that are likely to have an interest in such congestion information.

In some embodiments where the location of an event s creating the congestion is known the user monitoring component may be further configured to determine a spatial relationship between the user and the event s e.g. a distance between the user and the event s . In this way the publication component can customize the congestion information to respective users whose location information is known e.g. the accident is 2 miles ahead of the user s location for example.

The publication component is configured to provide congestion information to a user indicative of one or more events presently causing traffic congestion and or expected to cause traffic congestion in the near future. Such information may include a cause of the traffic congestion an expected time delay due to the congestion a location of an event causing the traffic congestion information regarding when the traffic congestion is expected to dissipate average speed of vehicles on the road segment when the traffic congestion is expected multimedia files corresponding to the event e.g. pictures or video of an accident or road hazard etc.

Such congestion information may be communicated to the user through one or more client devices via a data transmission protocol short messaging service protocol voice protocol etc. In some embodiments such congestion information is displayed within a navigation application e.g. configured to display routes to a user . In some embodiments such congestion information may be delivered to the user as an email a test message a voice message etc. In some embodiments such congestion information may be accessible via a web based browser e.g. the user can navigate to a specified webpage to view such congestion information . Moreover the congestion information may be communicated on demand e.g. when the user requests such information may be communicated when a route is being planned or altered e.g. the congestion information may be presented to explain why a particular was selected as the preferred route to explain why an estimated travel time was increased and or to explain why a road segment is being avoided and or may be communicate when other specified criteria is met e.g. the publication component may be configured to push the congestion information to the user upon a determination that the user is in the vicinity of the traffic congestion and or is intended to travel a road segment where traffic congestion is expected .

The congestion information may be presented to the user visually aurally and or tactually and may be unstructured semi structured or structured. By way of example in some embodiments the congestion information is displayed in a message having one or more fields into which various types of congestion information may be entered by the publication component . For example a first field may include information about the cause of congestion a second field may include information about an estimated time delay to the event a third field may include multimedia data corresponding to the event e.g. images or video of the event etc. . As an example the congestion information may be presented within a map which may illustrate a location of an event that is presenting causing traffic congestion and or likely to cause traffic congestion in the future and or illustrate the impact such an event is having on traffic congestion and or expected to have on traffic congestion.

In some embodiments where information about a user s location is known such as in the example system where the user monitoring component is configured to monitor the user s movement the congestion information may be customized to respective users. For example the congestion information may describe the spatial relationship between the user and the event may described an expected time delay to the user and or may describe when the user is expected to break free from such traffic congestion. In some embodiments the congestion information may be user non descriptive e.g. the congestion information may not be customized based upon a user s location and or information known about individual users .

In some embodiments the publication component is further configured to periodically and or intermittently update the congestion information and provided updated congestion information to the user. By way of example the publication component notification component and or other component of the system may be configured to receive information indicative of a change in an event e.g. an accident originally blocking the high speed lane has been moved to the berm . Upon receipt of such information the publication component may be configured to update the congestion information to indicate the change in the event and configured to provide the updated congestion information to the user s e.g. to inform the user s that the vehicles involved in the accident have been moved . In this way the publication component is configured to update the user regarding a situation to keep the user informed of what is taking place e.g. and possibly reduce the user s frustration if the user is involved in the traffic congestion .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of processor executable instructions configured to be executed via a processing unit and or configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the example method of and or at least some of the example method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the example environment of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In an embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In an embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art may realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In an embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering may be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it may be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. e.g. a first channel and a second channel generally corresponds to channel A and channel B where channel A and channel B may be two different channels two identical channels and or the same channel .

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications may occur to others skilled in the art based at least in part upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

