---

title: Random number generation using untrusted quantum devices
abstract: A method of generating a sequence of random bits includes receiving a binary input signal from an input signal source and coupling the binary input signal into a plurality of components of the quantum device to initiate a random bit generation cycle. Each of the plurality of components of the quantum device produces a binary output during the random bit generation cycle, and the quantum device is configured to operate according to a non-local game during the random bit generation cycle. The method further includes maintaining isolation of the plurality of components of the quantum device during the random bit generation cycle, obtaining a plurality of binary outputs from the plurality of components of the quantum device, and producing a random bit based on the plurality of binary outputs and the binary input signal. After the random bit generation cycle, communication among the plurality of components of the quantum device is allowed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471279&OS=09471279&RS=09471279
owner: THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
number: 09471279
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150114
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 927 466 filed on Jan. 14 2014 and titled RANDOM NUMBER GENERATION USING UNTRUSTED QUANTUM DEVICES the entire disclosure of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under CCF1216729 CCF1318070 and CCF1017335 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to generating random numbers and more particularly to methods for generating and expanding random numbers using untrusted quantum devices the method being translatable to quantum key distribution protocols.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventor to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

Randomness is an indispensable resource for modern day information processing. Without randomness randomized algorithms statistical scientific simulations and secure cryptography would not exist. However generating randomness is a fundamental problem that is far from fully solved. In fact many secret keys currently in use can be broken by exploiting the insufficient randomness used in generating the keys.

Quantum mechanics is inherently random therefore offers promising approaches to this problem. Indeed commercial products and randomness generation amplification and expansion protocols to this end have started to emerge see e.g. Robust randomness amplifiers Upper and lower bounds M. Coudron T. Vidick and H. Yuen volume 8096 of pages 468 483 Springer 2013 . However numerous challenges remain. Implementations of quantum operations are at least in the foreseeable future far from ideal e.g. the implementations include unpredictable deviations or errors . These imperfections call for secure protocols that tolerate deviations of quantum devices from ideal specifications. Furthermore users requiring high levels of security often have to purchase devices from a vendor who is not necessarily trusted. Further still while some proposed techniques are suggested to have higher levels of security such techniques require quantum conditions that are not attainable in the real world settings.

In accordance with one example a method of generating a sequence of random bits comprises receiving at a quantum device a binary input signal from an input signal source and coupling the binary input signal into a plurality of components of the quantum device to initiate a random bit generation cycle. Each of the plurality of components of the quantum device produces a binary output during the random bit generation cycle and the quantum device is configured to operate according to a game during the random bit generation cycle. The method further includes maintaining isolation of the plurality of components of the quantum device during the random bit generation cycle so that each of the plurality of components of the quantum device maintains at least one of superposition or entanglement during the random bit generation cycle obtaining a plurality of binary outputs from the plurality of components of the quantum device and producing at a classical controller coupled to the quantum device a random bit based on the plurality of binary outputs and the binary input signal. Still further the method includes causing communication among the plurality of components of the quantum device after the random bit generation cycle.

In accordance with another example a method of generating a large number of random bits from a small number of input random bits comprises determining parameters including an output length and retrieving from a source of random values a plurality of binary input values. The method further includes for each of the plurality of binary input values one of i coupling a plurality of random input values from the source of random values into a plurality of components of a quantum device if the binary input value includes a first value or ii coupling a string of null values into the plurality of components of the quantum device if the binary input value includes a second value different from the first value. The coupling of the plurality of random input values and the coupling of the string of null values is independent of values previously coupled into the plurality of components of the quantum devices. The method further includes for each of the plurality of binary input values obtaining a plurality of binary outputs from the plurality of components of the quantum device and generating a random value based on the plurality of binary outputs and the binary input value.

In accordance with another example a system for generating a sequence of random bits comprises a quantum device including a plurality of components. The quantum device is configured to operate according to a game during a random bit generation cycle produce a binary output during the random bit generation cycle maintain isolation of the plurality of components during the random bit generation cycle so that each of the plurality of components maintains at least one of superposition or entanglement during the random bit generation cycle and cause communication among the plurality of components after the random bit generation cycle. The system also includes a classical controller coupled to the quantum device and configured to receive a binary input signal from an input signal source couple the binary input signal into the plurality of components of the quantum device to initiate the random bit generation cycle obtain a plurality of binary outputs from the plurality of components of the quantum device and produce a random bit based on the plurality of binary outputs and the binary input signal.

The techniques of the present disclosure provide random number generation that is quantum secure i.e. secure against quantum adversaries and randomness that expands at an exponential or unbounded rate. Protocols of the present disclosure tolerate a constant or uniform level of imprecision in implementing each quantum operation. This constant may be close to the gap between an near optimal quantum performance and a highest level of quantum performance when devices cease to output randomness.

Further the protocols do not require large long term quantum memory because quantum communication between different components may be allowed at least in between consecutive games of the protocols i.e. the components may be resettable . Devices implementing the techniques may establish entanglement on the fly and may only need to maintain entanglement e.g. with only a constant level of fidelity for the duration of a single game. The game may be a non local game in some implementations. That is the game may be a cooperative game involving two or more players e.g. quantum systems where the players cannot communicate but may share common random bits or a common quantum state. However generally protocols of the present disclosure need not include a non local game. In particular the game may be a contextuality game in some implementations. A contextuality game is a game played by a single quantum player e.g. quantum system where a compatibility requirement specifies a collection of subsets of the player s quantum measurements as discussed further below.

In some implementations the quantum device may include a plurality of components also labeled as D D . . . D in where each of the plurality of components includes a corresponding input interface output interface and quantum system . Generally the quantum systems may include any suitable systems governed by quantum mechanical principles and capable of performing operations on data or input based on those quantum mechanical principles. The quantum systems may represent data or input via quantum mechanical properties such as spin charge polarization optical properties thermal properties magnetic properties etc. and in some cases each of the quantum systems may include one or more qubits such as two state quantum mechanical systems.

By way of example and without limitation the quantum systems may include i an lsing spin glass in which data is represented by lsing spins ii non Abelian topologically ordered phases of matter in which data is represented by braiding of anyonic quasiparticles iii three dimensional 3D lattice cluster states in which data is represented by topologically protected quantum gates iv superconducting systems in which data is represented by small superconducting circuits e.g. Josephson junctions v trapped atoms ions or molecules e.g. trapped by electromagnetic fields or optical lattices in which data is represented by two or more energy levels such as hyperfine levels vi one or more quantum dots or quantum wells in which data is represented by confined excitations vii linear optical elements in which data in represented by optical modes of photons or viii Bose Einstein condensates in which data is represented by one or more energetically protected two level states. It is understood that any suitable quantum system may represent data or input via quantum mechanical properties and perform operations on that data based on the quantum mechanical properties.

Preparation or manipulation of the quantum systems and extraction of results from the quantum systems may include measurements performed by the corresponding input interfaces and the corresponding output interface in some implementations. For example in a case in which the quantum systems include topologically ordered phases of matter e.g. as in a topological quantum computer the input interfaces and the output interfaces may include one or more interferometers to perform quasiparticle braiding topological charge measurement and or other topologically transformative manipulations. Alternatively in the case in which the quantum systems include superconducting systems the input interfaces and the output interfaces may include various superconducting quantum interference devices SQUIDs to measure magnetic properties with high sensitivity. It is understood however that the input interfaces and the output interfaces may include any appropriate combination of hardware classical computer processing and or software components configured to measure manipulate and or otherwise interact with the quantum systems 

Further some or all of the input interfaces and the output interfaces may be controlled by or communicate with the classical controller in order to measure manipulate and or otherwise interact with the quantum systems in an implementation. For example the input interfaces may receive input data values e.g. input bits from the classical controller that are subsequently encoded in the quantum systems via operations e.g. measurements performed by the input interfaces . Likewise the output interfaces may communicate results obtained via measurements performed on the quantum systems to the classical controller for further processing or utilization. In some cases the classical controller may implement software applications via computer readable instructions that control all or some of the functionality of the input interfaces and the output interfaces . For example the classical controller may control when e.g. periodically or at pre defined times and how e.g. with what parameters such as intensity voltage etc. the input interfaces and the output interfaces perform measurements on the quantum systems 

In some implementations the plurality of components are configured such that information cannot be exchanged among the plurality of components during certain quantum operations such as random number generation randomness expansion or quantum key distribution. For example the plurality of components may be disposed in locations far apart from one another so as to ensure that during the period of generating a bit of a random number the plurality of components cannot exchange information due to a limit imposed by special relativity i.e. information cannot travel faster than the speed of light . Such a separation of the plurality of components may be referred to as isolated or in isolation herein. In general quantum communication or a quantum exchange of information may include any intentional or accidental coupling with an environment e.g. a coupling that includes a decoherence of quantum states .

In other implementations the plurality of components are configured such that information cannot be exchanged among the plurality of components during certain stages or phases of a quantum operation while information can be exchanged during other stages or phases of the quantum operation. For example the plurality of components may be disposed in locations such that during one iteration of a protocol such as the protocols discussed with reference to information cannot be exchanged between the plurality of components while information can be exchanged in between iterations. Such a configuration of the plurality of components may be referred to as resettable or being reset herein. In this manner protocols may be implemented with reduced complexity in some cases. For example the quantum device may establish entanglement on the fly and needs only to maintain the entanglement e.g. with a constant level of fidelity for the duration of a single protocol iteration.

Communications between the classical controller and the input interfaces and the output interfaces may include classical communications in an implementation facilitated by a control and measurement link . The control and measurement link may carry communications from the classical controller to the interfaces and via electromagnetic signals e.g. current signals on a current carrying conductor such as a ribbon coaxial twisted pair universal serial bus USB or other cable. The control and measurement link may in some implementations carry encoded digital signals between the classical controller and the interfaces and such as signals encoded according to the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Virtual Instrument Software Architecture VISA standard Standard Commands for Programmable Instruments SCR High Speed LAN Instrument Protocol HiSLIP LAN eXtensions for Instrumentation LXI PCI eXtensions for Instrumentation PXI File Transfer Protocol FTP Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP etc. In general the control and measurement link may include any suitable wired and or wireless components links modems routers cables buses etc. allowing the classical controller to communicate with and or control the quantum device .

The classical controller may include various interfaces implemented in any suitable combination of hardware and software allowing the classical controller to communicate with the quantum device and various other devices or components. In particular the classical controller may include an instrument control interface configured to send receive control signals voltages currents digitally encoded messages etc. to and from the quantum device respectively. The classical controller may also include a data acquisition DAQ interface such as a DAQ PCI card to receive measurement values from the quantum device e.g. from the output interfaces and a network interface allowing the classical controller to communicate with various other network enabled devices .

Users of the network enabled devices may interact with the classical controller via a network and network interface . The network enabled devices may include by way of example a network enabled cellular wireless terminal a phone a tablet computer a desktop computer a server computer a cluster of server computers a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop computer a wearable wireless communication device such as a wearable computer a portable media player an e reader or other similar devices not shown . Of course any network enabled device appropriately configured may interact with the classical controller to for example generate a random number expand a random number and or generate or retrieve a quantum key. In some examples the network enabled devices represent a network enabled enterprise in communication with the classical controller of another network enabled enterprise. Example enterprises including any two enterprises desiring to establish shared secured communications such as a design enterprise creating intellectual property e.g. an integrated circuit designer and a manufacturing enterprise fabrication enterprise or foundry .

The network may be a proprietary network a secure public Internet a virtual private network or some other type of network such as dedicated access lines plain ordinary telephone lines satellite links combinations of these etc. Where the network comprises the Internet data communication may take place over the network via an Internet communication protocol. The network may communicate with the network enabled devices through wireless or wired connections. Further in some examples the network is a mobile or cellular communication network.

The network enabled devices need not necessarily communicate with the network via a wired connection. In some instances the network enabled devices may communicate with the network via wireless signals and in some instances the network enabled devices may communicate with the network via an intervening wireless or wired device which may be a wireless router a wireless repeater a base transceiver station of a mobile telephony provider etc. or other access point.

The classical controller also includes a program memory and one or more processors e.g. microcontrollers or microprocessors . The program memory may include an assortment of computer readable media implemented as semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example. Computer readable media may be any media that may be accessed by the classical controller . By way of example and not limitation the media may include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. Media may also include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media that stores information such as computer readable instructions program modules data structures or other data. Computer storage media may include RAM ROM EEPROM or other memory technology optical storage disks magnetic storage devices and any other medium which may be used to store computer accessible information. Communication media may be computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal or other transport mechanism. Communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as RF infrared and other wireless media.

The program memory may store a basic input output system BIOS containing algorithms to transfer information between components within the classical controller . Also data or program modules that are immediately accessible or are presently in use by the one or more processors may be stored in the program memory . Data normally stored in the program memory while the classical controller is in operation may include an operating system application programs program modules and program data. In particular the program memory may store a random number generation program a randomness expansion program and a quantum key distribution program as discussed further with reference to . Programs such as the programs and may in some implementations provide input to or process output from the quantum device . That is some functionality related to random number generation randomness expansion and quantum key distribution may be implemented by the classically executed programs and whereas other functionality related to random number generation randomness expansion and quantum key distribution may be implemented according to quantum mechanical principles by the quantum device .

The classical controller may also be communicatively coupled to a database . The database may include storage media such as a hard disk drive that may read from or write to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk. Other storage media that may be used includes magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The database may store results from computations performed by the quantum device such as random numbers quantum keys etc. In addition the database may store instructions rules or other information allowing the classical controller to execute corresponding functionality.

In particular is a block diagram of an example system in which a network enabled device labeled A in and a network enabled device labeled B in may interact with a classical controller where the classical controller is communicatively and or operatively connected to a quantum device . Although illustrated as laptop computers in it is understood that the network enable devices and may include any suitable network enabled devices such as those discussed with reference to . The network enabled devices and may communicate with the classical controller via the network

Each of the network enabled devices and may have access to e.g. be able to interact with via the classical controller one or more quantum components and respectively. In particular the network enable device may interact with through communications with the classical controller the quantum components which are j in number. Likewise the network enabled device may interact with through the communications with the classical controller the quantum components which are n j in number. That is the total number n of components of the quantum device are split between the network enabled devices and in an implementation. In general the number j may be any suitable number such as one two three etc. up to n 1. Further in some cases the quantum components and the quantum components may be isolated from one another and in other cases the quantum components and the quantum components may be resettable allowing quantum communication between protocol iterations. In general the quantum components and the quantum components may be in the same or different physical locations. In fact the quantum components may be disposed in a different physical location that is far removed from the physical location of the quantum components

Access of the multiple network enabled devices and to the corresponding quantum components and may allow multiple network enabled device to carry out quantum computations simultaneously or cooperatively in an implementation. For example the network enabled devices and may initiate a quantum key generation scheme as further discussed with reference to where each of the network enabled devices and are able to initiate respective random number generation protocols via the corresponding quantum components and . In general however the network enabled devices and may perform quantum operations via the corresponding quantum components and independently and for any suitable purpose.

The network enabled devices and may also communicate with each other in some implementations via the network . For example the network enabled devices and may communicate as part of a quantum key distribution protocol and may communicate securely after sharing a generated quantum key.

The networks and may be different types of networks in an implementation. For example the network may include a wired network and the network may include a wireless network. Alternatively the network may include a private network and the network may include a public network. In general the networks and may differ based on any parameters or properties such as privacy network type network carrier or provider etc. Further communication via the networks and may differ based on required types of security. As such the network enabled devices and may communicate with the classical controller such that a common level of security may be established e.g. via the generation of a quantum key on the quantum device and subsequent communications between the network enabled devices and may adhere to security requirements of both of the networks and in an implementation.

In addition to interacting with the classical controller via separate or different networks network enabled devices may interact with a quantum device via separate or different classical controllers in an implementation. As in an example system illustrated in network enable devices and may interact with the quantum device via a classical controller and a classical controller respectively. The network enabled devices and may be communicatively coupled to the classical controllers and via the networks and and the network enabled devices and may only interact with corresponding quantum components and of the quantum device in an implementation. In this manner interactions or communication with the quantum device from the network enabled devices and are shielded from one another. That is the network enabled devices and may perform quantum computations via the quantum device independent of one another e.g. via separate or different classical controllers and networks .

In some implementations the game G is a non local game. Generally non local games may differ in scenarios in which the games are played by or implemented in systems operating according to classical mechanics as compared to scenarios in which the games are played by or implemented in systems operating according to quantum mechanics. An example non local game is a cooperative game involving two or more players e.g. quantum systems . The players cannot communicate but may share common random bits or a common quantum state. A controller or other suitable device may send an input to one of the players who then responds with an answer. Winning in the non local game may include satisfying a condition dependent on the inputs from the controller e.g. inputs from a known probability distribution .

During each iteration of the protocol which iteration produces a random value or bit the quantum device plays the game G. That is the quantum device receives an input g for a single round of the game and operates such that a result is produced. G may include any binary Exclusive Or XOR game e.g. a game where inputs and outputs are binary such as a game with a scoring function depending on the inputs and the XOR of the outputs where the binary XOR game is strongly self testing in an implementation. The game G may be strongly self testing or non local in that any strategy that is close within an value or close to optimal in its winning probability must be O close to a unique optimal strategy in both its state and its measurements in an implementation. In this case the term strongly refers to the O term which is the best possible asymptotic bound for a non local game. By way of example strong self testing games may include the Clauser Horne Shimony Holt CHSH game and the Greenberger Horne Zeilinger GHZ game but it is understood that the protocol may utilize any such binary XOR game. Although strong self testing or non local games are discussed above and below by way of example and for clarity some implementations of protocols for generating random numbers may utilize other contextuality games along with or as an alternative to non local games as further discussed with reference to .

The protocol may include the following parameters in an implementation i N a positive integer representing the output length ii a real 0 1 representing the abort threshold iii q a real 0 representing the test frequency iv G an n player non local game that is a strong self test and v D an untrusted quantum device e.g. a device provided by or operated by an untrusted party that can play G repeatedly and cannot receive any additional information. In a single iteration i.e. use of the protocol the components and may not communicate but in between iterations the components may communicate. For any real 0 1 the protocol with appropriate parameters converts any k uniform bits to exp k extractible bits with exp k error under a constant level of noise in an implementation.

In some implementations quantum proof randomness extractors are applied to the outputs of the protocol to produce near perfect random output from the protocol . The quantum proof randomness extractors may be deterministic functions Ext X S on two arguments i X being the source which in this case may be the output of the protocol and ii S being a perfectly random seed. The extractors Ext X S may in an implementation convert any N bits X that have min entropy N to a near perfect output randomness of length N .

To begin a bit g 0 1 is determined block . In an implementation the bit input bit g may be determined according to a biased 1 q q distribution. It is understood however that the input bit g may be received from a random or quasi random e.g. based at least partially on a deterministic function source or determined according to any suitable distribution as further discussed with reference to .

Next it is determined if g 1 block . If g 1 the iteration of the method is determined to be a game round and an input string is determined at random block . In some cases the input string may be determined from 0 1 according a probability distribution specified by the game G and given to a quantum device executing the method . On the other hand if g 0 an input string 00 . . . 0 is input e.g. form the classical controller to components of the quantum device implementing the method block .

Note a choice of 00 . . . 0 for cases in which g 0 may assume that 00 . . . 0 is among those inputs on which the optimal quantum strategy wins with the largest probability in an implementation. In general 00 . . . 0 may be replaced by any string on which the optimal quantum strategy wins the game G with the largest probability.

After inputting or coupling the binary input g into the components of the quantum device the outputs of the quantum device components are measured block . Depending on i.e. based on the measured output of the quantum device components and the rules of game G a result value is determined and recorded block . For example in the case of a game round a P pass or an F fail may be recorded according to the rules of the game G. In the case of g 0 a H heads may be recorded when the output from the first component is zero otherwise a T tails may be recorded. In general any type of binary numeric alphabetic or symbolic result values may be determined based on the output of the quantum device components.

It is then determined if N result values have been calculated based on the procedure of blocks block . If the number of result values that have been generated is less than N the flow continues to block where the quantum components may be reset e.g. causing quantum communication between quantum device components in an implementation and subsequently reverts back to block where the process of generating another result value is initiated. If the number of result values equals N the resulting sequence of values e.g. N length sequence from the alphabet P F H T is output for subsequent storage or utilization. For example the resulting sequence may be stored by a classical controller such as the classical controller for use as a random number or key. Alternatively a classical controller may communicate the result sequence to a network enabled device such as one or more of the network enabled devices .

In some implementations a quantum device implementing the example method may also determine if the failure rate e.g. out of all the game rounds exceeds 1 w where wis the highest probability with which a quantum strategy can win the game G. If the failure rate exceeds 1 w the example method may abort restart output an error etc. Also if more than a certain number of game rounds such as 2qN or qN game rounds have occurred the example method may abort in an implementation.

Although the above protocol is described with reference to non local games the game G need not be non local game or strong self testing game defined in the manner described above. Generally the game G may be a contextuality game such as the game further described in Simple test for hidden variables in spin 1 systems A. Klyachko M. Can S. Binicioglu and A. Shumovsky 101 020403 2008. A contextuality game may be a game played by a single quantum player e.g. quantum system where a compatibility requirement specifies a collection of subsets of the player s quantum measurements. Those subsets of measurements must be mutually commutative in some cases. A contextuality game G with m measurement setting includes a multilinear polynomial f encoding rules for the game. For example a multilinear function satisfying f 1 may encode rules for a games as follows. Let D be a contextual measurement device whose set of contexts includes Supp f that is includes every element T1 2 . . . m for which f 0 . To play this example game a subset T is chosen at random under the probability distribution f and given as input to the device D. If b . . . b are output bits the score of the game may be given by 

In fact some protocols utilized to generate random numbers may utilize a contextuality game played or implemented by a single quantum system. illustrates such an example protocol including a contextuality game played by a single quantum system. illustrates a flow of such a protocol e.g. referred to as Protocol K .

Generally protocols utilized in systems such as the example system to generate random numbers may be implemented by any suitable number of quantum devices or systems and may utilize non local games contextuality games or suitable combinations of these games. The above described protocols and are examples of such protocols. For further clarity a general or abstract protocol describing both of these example protocols and is illustrated in . When the protocol illustrated in utilizes a non local game e.g. a binary XOR game the protocol may reduce to the example protocol and when the protocol illustrated in utilizes a contextuality game the protocol may reduce to the example protocol . In any event protocols and may have security guarantees for all noise levels that are within a maximum noise level e.g. when the devices implementing the protocols and cease to output randomness .

Further devices e.g. including quantum systems implementing methods such as the method need not be trusted devices. That is components of a system utilizing method or other example methods described herein for random number generation are self authenticating In other words users of such a system e.g. the system may test the quantumness of the hardware. The only way to pass such a test may be to behave quantum mechanically and honestly which behaviors automatically imply that the outputs of the system are truly random. Thus at least in some implementations a system implementing a method substantially similar to method may not be susceptible to malicious attacks from routines such as embedded backdoor hardware Trojan etc.

For clarity certain quantities that may describe properties of the current randomness expansion protocols are discussed briefly below before discusses example methods for randomness expansion.

A Classical Quantum C Q state may be considered ideal with y a positive integer extractible bits if the first bit of the classical part indicates Success or Failure and conditioned on Success the C Q state has conditional min entropy y. A randomness expansion protocol may have a yield y with soundness error if for any device D the output is always within trace distance of an ideal state with y extractable bits. The protocol may tolerate a noise level with completeness error if any device that plays each game independently e.g. with an expected score no less than w will abort with probability at most . If both the soundness and the completeness errors are the error of the protocol may be referred to simply as . Note that in an implementation may be reals in 0 1 .

For any strong self test G and any 0 there may exist positive constants q N b c such that the following holds when a randomness expansion protocol of the current disclosure is executed with parameters q q and N N 

Note input bits g . . . gmay be generated either by another random process or the input bits may be generated deterministically from an initial random input s drawn from a different probability distribution. For example s may be O Nh q uniformly random distributed bits. The bits g . . . gneed only to be independent of the bias q with respect to the quantum device and can be known completely to another other party including an adversary. Similarly any initial random input s however known to other parties need only to ensure a limited knowledge of the quantum devices on the generated input bits. In particular in a case where s is uniform s needs only to be uniform with respect to the quantum device. That is even in a scenario in which an adversary knows the input a protocol utilized in the method or further described with reference to may be as secure as in the case that the input is globally uniform. Operationally these properties of the input seed may increase options for the obtaining the input seed. For example some implementations of the method or example methods further discussed with reference to may utilize broadcast randomness e.g. from a government agency or other organization . If a manufacturer of the devices implementing the methods cannot predict the bits broadcast those random bits may be safe to use in the methods e.g. the output is secure against anyone including the provider of the random bits .

For any real 0 a randomness expansion protocol with appropriate parameters may convert any k uniform bits to exp k near uniform bits with exp error under a constant level of noise. Once a near perfect random output is generated the output may be utilized as the input to another instance of the protocol thus expanding further with an accumulating error parameter. As the error parameters decrease at an exponential rate they may be dominated by the first set of errors.

An input extractor of the protocol may obtain an input bit g from a portion of X. The portion of X from which g is obtained may include a preprocessed portion of X in an implementation. Then the input extractor may obtain m bits x either from the source X when g is one or m bits of 0 otherwise. These m bit may then be passed from the input extractor to m quantum components of a quantum device such as the quantum device to play the game G as illustrated in the box . The protocol may also include an output determination and randomness extraction which outputs result values from the game G based on the output of the quantum components playing the game G and the input x. Note although the box is illustrated as a protocol utilizing a non local game the box may be replaced with a protocol utilizing a contextuality game as described further with reference to .

To begin parameters for the randomness expansion are received and or set block . The parameters for the randomness expansion may include desired output length N output randomness quality failure probability and the noise level tolerated as discussed above. In some implementations these parameters are programmed into or determined by executing computer readable instructions stored in the memory of a classical controller such as the classical controller . Alternatively a user or operator may set the parameters via manual interaction with a user interface keyboard touchscreen mouse etc. operatively connected to a classical controller or network enabled device. By way of example the parameters may be selected chosen or set according to security requirements for the generation of random numbers and or the parameters may be selected to provide an appropriate balance between realistic tolerances or failure rates and desired output properties. In some cases the received or set parameters allow the rate of randomness expansion and or the number of output bits as a function of the number of input bits to range between a linear function and an exponential function.

Next random values are received from a source X block and an input extractor extracts one or more input values g from X. In some cases the input extractor extracts g from a preprocessed portion of X. If the input value g 1 as determined at block m values x x . . . x from X are coupled into the m components of the quantum device executing the method block . However if the input value g 0 m zero values are coupled to the m components of the quantum device block .

After the m values are coupled to the quantum device and the device plays the game G such as the game an output is measured from the m quantum device components block . For example an output may be measured via the output interfaces controlled via the classical controller . The measurements of the output may include measurements of any suitable quantum mechanical properties representing data within the method such as charge spin etc.

One or more result values are then determined based on the measured output from the quantum device components block . For example a raw output bit z may be determined and recorded e.g. by a classical controller as the result of the game. In some implementations the raw output bit may equal one for winning and zero for losing according to the scoring rule of the game G the observed output of the quantum device and the input x.

Subsequent to the determination and recording of the output bit or result value it is determined if the number of result value generated thus far is equal to the desired output length N block . If less than N result values have been generated the flow continues to block where quantum device components may be reset by causing communication among the components and then reverts to block where the generation of further result values is initiated.

Otherwise if N result values have been generated the flow continues to block where it is determined if a number of failures of the method is greater than a threshold. In some implementations this determination includes determining if the number of failed game plays among those with g equal to one e.g. game rounds exceeds the threshold parameter received or set in block . In some cases the quantum device executing the method satisfies an uncertainty principle that ensures that the quantum devices either fails the game G or has high quality output randomness. If the number of failures is greater than the threshold the flow may continue to block where the method aborts. However if the number of failures is less than the threshold the flow continues to block where result values are output.

In some implementations the result values generated via the above procedure are output to a known quantum secure strong randomness extractor and back to the source X to supply the required random seed for the extractor. In such a case the output of the extractor may be the final output y of the example method .

The O log N iterations of the randomness expansion protocol require only two quantum devices in some implementations. This utilization of only two quantum devices may be based on the fact that when the input to a randomness expansion protocol is independent of the device but not necessary the adversary. The output of the randomness expansion protocol may still be as good as it would be had the input been perfectly random to both the device and the adversary.

A fixed number of random values X is received block . The fixed number of random values may be obtained from a trusted source of random values in an implementation as discussed further with respect to . The fixed number of random values X may contain any number of random values such as one two three four etc. In some cases a first of the quantum devices implementing the method may receive the random values X from a classical controller such as the classical controller .

Subsequently the first of the quantum devices implementing the method generates a number of random values Y block where the number of random values corresponding to Y is greater than the number of random values corresponding to X. The number of random values Y may be exponentially greater than the number of random values X depending on parameters of the randomness expansion protocol utilized by the method. However it is understood that the random values Y may be greater in number than the random values X in any suitable manner such as greater in number by a fixed number linearly greater in number etc.

Next the random values Y are input into a second of the quantum devices implementing the method such that the second of the quantum devices generated random values Y where the number of random values corresponding to Y is greater than the number of random values corresponding to Y. As above Y may be greater in number than the random values Y in any suitable manner. Further the first and second of the quantum device may implement the same or different randomness expansion protocols and generate increasing random number values at different expansion rates. In some cases however the first and second of the quantum devices may implement similar protocols and expand randomness at similar rates.

It is then determined if the number of random values Y is greater than or equal to N block the desired output length of desired number of output result values. If the output is of the desired length the result values Y are output for utilization or further manipulation block . For example the output values may be communicated to the classical controller and or the network enabled device .

If the number of random values Y is less than N the flow continues to block where Y is relabeled as X. Then the flow reverts to block where the new input X or Y is utilized as input to the first of the quantum devices. As illustrated in such a protocol may iterate 2N times each Y labeled as Y Y . . . Y and each Y labeled as Y Y . . . Y where the output of a first randomness extraction protocol is input to a second randomness extraction protocol and the output of the second randomness extraction protocol is input to the first randomness extraction protocol .

In some cases a first and second quantum device implementing the method may be isolated from one another even if corresponding components of each of the devices may be internally resettable. For example a quantum device executing the first randomness extraction protocol may be isolated from a quantum device executing the second randomness extraction protocol .

In the illustrated example N is determined for the method . In other examples N may be determined during operation of the method for example to allow for unbounded expansion until an external decisional control such as from a classical controller concludes the expansion process.

The above discussed protocols for random number generation and randomness expansion may be applied to untrusted device quantum key distribution QKD between two example parties Alice and Bob e.g. the network enabled devices and respectively in an implementation. Alice may interact with a first component of a quantum device while Bob may interact with all the other components of the quantum device. Alice and Bob may share randomness for executing a protocol as well as randomness for later stages of information reconciliation and randomness extraction.

In some cases Alice and Bob may initially have access to randomness of a much shorter than the desired output length. A simplistic QKD implementation of the randomness expansion protocols discussed above includes an initial expansion of randomness by Alice then a use of the expanded secure randomness to execute an existing untrusted device QKD protocol. Such an implementation may produce an end result including an exponentially expanding key distribution protocol.

However in other implementations the randomness expansion protocols of the current disclosure may be adapted to achieve simultaneously randomness expansion and key distribution. Implementations may benefit from such an adaptation in a variety of ways. First such an adaptation may reduce the number of untrusted devices e.g. from two to one . When such devices are valuable a reduction in the number of devices may provide a significant cost savings. Additionally such an adaptation may rely on any strong self test. That is the QKD adaptation may not be restricted to any particular game.

In some implementations Alice and Bob use a public channel to compare their device outputs e.g. the network for those game rounds or protocol iterations in which an input bit g is one. Once a QKD protocol succeeds Alice and Bob may apply a standard post processing method to obtain a shared near uniformly random key.

To begin a party A and a party B retrieve or receive random values X block . The party A and the party B may retrieve X from a trusted source of random numbers and in some cases only one of the parties A and B retrieve X. For example a one of the parties A and B initiating communication with the other of the parties A and B may retrieve the random values X or vice versa.

The random values X are then shared between the parties A and B block . In some implementations this sharing may involve a message from party A to party B or vise versa and in other example cases the source of the random values X may simply send the same random values to both of the parties A and B.

After sharing the random values X the parties A and B each generate a random number based on X using the quantum device components corresponding to party A and the party B respectively blocks and . In an implementation the parties A and B may utilize one of the example protocols or to generate the random number. However each of the parties A and B may utilize any suitable combination of protocols similar to the protocols and to generate a random value or sequence of random values.

The output e.g. measure output of the quantum components corresponding to party B is then communicated with party A. In some implementations only the output corresponding to game rounds e.g. g 1 is communicated from party B to party A. The communication may be a classical communication and may include electronic communication via one or more private or public networks.

Next it is determined if the output from the quantum components is to be accepted block . In some implementations only one of the parties A and B such as party A determines if the output from the quantum components is to be accepted. The determination may be based on any type of pre or otherwise determined parameters such as failure rates thresholds etc. as discussed further with respect to . If the output is determined to not be acceptable the flow may revert to block to restart the method or the method may abort not shown .

If the output from the quantum components is accepted the flow continues to block where information is reconciled between the parties A and B. The reconciliation may include a known method for information reconciliation in an implementation. Next a final shared key is output based on the output of the quantum components corresponding to both party A and party B block . The final shared key may be output to the devices corresponding to the parties A and B and or to other computing devices or network components storing security information or granting access or communications permissions.

In some implementations QKD protocols of the current disclosure may i include any strong self testing games or contextuality games as opposed to only one particular game ii achieve exponential expansion with one multi component quantum device simultaneously with QKD and iii achieve simultaneous expansion and QKD with multiple untrusted devices implementing a concatenation strategy.

Further proofs theorems corollaries definitions protocols etc. relevant to the protocols techniques systems and methods described above are presented below. These proofs theorems corollaries and definitions are provided by way of example and clarification. Some or all of the quantum systems protocols etc. discussed above in the example methods and systems may utilize and or adhere to some or all of the proofs theorems corollaries and definitions. However any suitable quantum systems as described above may implement the methods described herein for generating random numbers expanding randomness and or distributing quantum keys.

Some of the proofs and theorems depend on the quantum Renyi entropies. For any 1 and any density matrix and any positive semi definite operator let 

Suppose that Q is a qubit and E is a quantum system that is entangled with Q. Let be a density operator which represents the state of E. Let and represent the states that arise when Q is measured along the 0 1 basis and the basis. We prove the following 

Theorem. There is a continuous function 0 1 2 satisfying 0 0 such that the following holds. For any operators representing states arising from anti commutative measurements if

The above theorem asserts that if the quantity determined by the 0 1 measurement is small then the outcome of the measurement must be uncertain as measured by the 1 e Renyi divergence . This parallels other uncertainty principles that have been used in quantum cryptography. The proof of this result is based on a known matrix inequality for the 2 2 Schatten norm.

Say that a device with trusted measurements D is a single part input output device which receives a single bit as an input and depending on the value of the bit performs one of two perfectly anti commutative binary measurements on a quantum system. The measurements of the device are trusted but the state is unknown.

Also suppose that we make the following modifications to the procedure that defines a protocol similar to the protocol discussed with reference to referred to herein as Protocol R 

Note that Protocols A and R both involve conditioning on a success event. One of the central difficulties found in establishing quantum security is in determining the impact that this conditioning has on the randomness of the device D. In the classical security context one can show that once we condition on the success event most uses of the device D in an appropriate sense generate random outputs. By elementary arguments the outputs therefore accumulate min entropy linearly over multiple iterations and randomness expansion is achieved.

A successful way to interpret the success abort events in the quantum context may involves two adjustments to the classical approach outlined above. First the quantum Renyi entropy is used in place of the smooth min entropy. The quantum Renyi entropies have elegant arithmetic properties which make them more amenable to induction. Secondly rather than directly considering success and abort as discrete events a graded measurement of performance interpolates between the two.

Suppose that E is a quantum system which is initially entangled with D. For the purposes of this discussion assume that E and D are maximally entangled and the state is totally mixed. Then the state of E after one iteration can be expressed as 1 1 .

Suppose that the randomness of a state is measured with respect to a second party who knows the value of the bit g. Then an appropriate measure of randomness may be the Renyi divergence d with respect to the operator 1 q 1 q q q . For the parameter it turns out that simply taking 1 q is useful.

One could hope that this quantity is strictly smaller than d but this is not always so for example for measurements on a maximally entangled Bell state . But consider instead the modified expression 

Theorem 2.1 implies that this quantity is always less than Cd where C 1 is a fixed constant. Essentially this is because if the quantity is large then the introduction of the coefficient lowers the value of the expression significantly and if is small then the desired bound is implied .

One can think of the function d as an error tolerant measure of performance. The presence of the coefficient 2compensates for the loss of randomness when the device failure quantity Tr is large.

Now let B denote the output register of Protocol R and let denote the joint state of E and B at the conclusion of the protocol. Let be an operator on BE defined by 

An inductive argument proves that d C. This inequality is sufficient to deduce that the Renyi entropy of the success state s grows linearly in N. One can therefore deduce that for appropriate parameters the outputs of Protocol A contain a linear number of extractable quantum proof bits.

It may be further proved that if Protocol A is executed with a partially trusted measurement device i.e. a measurement device whose measurements are anticommunicative only with a certain positive probability then it produces a linear amount of randomness. This generalization may be crucial for the carrying over of results into a fully device independent setting.

A second insight enabling at least in some cases properties of the protocols discussed herein is that nonlocal games simulate partially trusted devices. When certain nonlocal games are played even with a device that is completely untrusted their outcomes may match the behavior of a device that is partially trusted.

To illustrate this a class of devices is formalized as follows. Definition Let n be a positive integer. A binary quantum device with n components D D . . . D include the following 

The behavior of the device D is as follows at round i the devices first collectively perform the unitary operation U and then according to their inputs b each performs binary measurements specified by the operators M. This device model allows communication in between rounds in an implementation 

Now a somewhat more specific type of device is defined. Suppose that E is a single part binary quantum device. Say that E is a partially trusted device with parameters u v if the measurement operators Nthat E uses on input 1 decompose as where Pis perfectly anti commutative with the other measurement N and Qsatisfies Q 1 and is otherwise unspecified . Essentially the device behaves as follows. On input 0 it performs a perfect measurement. On input 1 it does one of the following at random it performs a perfectly anti commuting measurement probability v or it performs an unknown measurement probability u v or it ignores its quantum system and merely outputs a perfect coin flip probability 1 u . The second possibility is referred to herein as a dishonest mistake and the third is referred to herein as an honest mistake. 

Proving that untrusted devices can be simulated by partially trusted devices is an example of a task that is fairly easy in the classical security context but difficult in the quantum context. For example if one knows that a quantum device performs at a superclassical level at a particular nonlocal game then one knows that its outcomes are at least partly random and thus can be simulated by a biased coin flip or a partially trusted coin flip . But to prove quantum security one needs a stronger notion of simulationone that allows for the possibility quantum side information.

The basis for a simulation result may be certain known properties of quantum self testing. Games from the class of strong self tests are considered although as discussed further above contextuality games may also be implemented in one or more protocols discussed herein 

Theorem. Let G be a strong self test and let D be an untrusted binary device with n components. Then the behavior of D Protocol R can be simulated by a partially trusted device.

Reducing to the case where dim Q 2 each measurement operator being projective and after an appropriate choice of basis 

Proving the existence of the sequence . . . is matter of manipulations of complex numbers. One surprising aspect of this proof is that it depends on the fact that G is not only a self test but a strong self test.

A third protocol Protocol A see further description with reference to is the same as Protocol A except that a partially trusted measurement device is used. Protocol R can be simulated by Protocol A for an appropriately chosen partially trusted device. This means not only that the probability distributions of the outputs of the two protocols are exactly the same but also that there is a simulation of the behavior of any external quantum environment that may be possessed by an adversary. Since the Protocol A with a partially trusted device produces a linear amount of min entropy the same is true of Protocol R. This completes the proof.

For further clarity and by way of example a formalization of some terminology and notation for describing certain example quantum devices is presented below 

Definition Let n be a positive integer. Another example binary quantum device with n components D D . . . D includes the following 

The device D may behave as follows. Suppose that k iterations of the device have already taken place and suppose that T is such that T 0 i j 0 1 and T 1 i j 0 1 represent the input bit and output bit respectively for the jth player on the ith round i k . T is the transcript function. Then 

Suppose that one binary quantum device D simulates another binary quantum device D if for any purifying systems E and E for D and D respectively and any input sequence i . . . i 0 1 the joint state of the outputs of D together with E is isomorphic to the joint state of the outputs of D together with E on the same input sequence. Similarly let us say that a protocol X simulates another protocol Y if for any purifying systems E and E for the quantum devices used by X and Y respectively the joint state of E together with the outputs of X is isomorphic to the joint state of E together with the outputs of Y.

Definition Say that a binary quantum device D is in canonical form if each of its quantum systems Qis such that Q C for some m 1 and each measurement operator pair M M M M has the following 2 2 diagonal block form 

Definition Let u v 0 1 be positive real numbers such that v u 1. Then a partially trusted device with parameters u v includes the following data 

Intuitively a partially trusted device is a device D which always performs a trusted measurement Ton input 0 and on input 1 selects one of the three operators T N 0 at random according to the probability distribution v u v 1 u .

Consider example protocol A with the trusted device replaced by a partially trusted device. The outputs of Protocol A may be as follows let g denote the bit g from the ith round of the protocol and let G denote a classical register which consists of the bits g g . . . g. Let obe equal to 0 if the outcome of the ith round is P or H and let obe equal to 1 if the outcome of the ith round is F or T. Let O be a classical register consisting of the bits o o . . . o. Also succ may denote the success event in Protocol A .

Theorem Let u v 0 be real number with 00 such that the following holds. If Protocol A is executed with arguments N q u v D where q

Theorem For any n player strong self test G which is positively aligned there exists 0 such that the following holds. For any n part binary quantum device D there exists a partially trusted device D with parameters q such that Protocol A with arguments N q q D simulates Protocol R with arguments N q D G .

Consider the behavior of the device D in a first round. It may be assumed that the measurements performed by D . . . Dare in canonical form. Write the underlying space as CW . . . CW . If g 0 the measurement performed by Dis given by the operator 

If g 1 the measurement performed by D is given by the scoring operator M. For some unit length complex number and for any choices of unit length complex numbers . . . there is a decomposition for M in the form M M q M with

Theorem Let G be a strong self test and let 0 be a real number. Then there exist constants q b c 0 such that the following holds. If Protocol R is executed with arguments N q G D where q

To adapt the randomness expansion protocols of the current disclosure to achieve simultaneously randomness expansion and key distribution the Information Reconciliation IR stage is considered below. An implementation may require that the amount of leaked information does not reduce the asymptotic quantity of the smooth min entropy. Furthermore an implementation may not include too much randomness. As such Alice and Bob may be assumed to have access to a linear in the output length amount of shared randomness which does not need to be secure against the adversary .

Further to require that the amount of leaked information does not reduce the asymptotic quantity of the smooth min entropy an Azuma Hoeffding Inequality may be applied to show that other than a chance of the same order as the expansion soundness error Alice and Bob s strings differ by at most a fraction for some constant . A randomized protocol may then be constructed through which Bob recovers Alice s string without consuming too much randomness and in an efficient manner in terms of time complexity.

Central results relevant to QKD is included below. The notion of soundness and completeness errors are similarly defined the soundness error may be the distance of the output distribution to a mixture of aborting and an output randomness of a desired smooth min entropy and the completeness error may be the probability of aborting for an honest possibly noisy implementation.

Corollary For any strong self test G there exists a constant s such that for any 0 there exist positive constants q N b c such that the following holds when Protocol R see is executed with q q and N N.

The proof for the above Corollary may include two steps. The first may show that when Protocol R is run other than an exp qN probability A and B differ in at most a fraction. The second step may include constructing the efficient IR Protocol for Bob to correct the differences with some small failure probability. Note the protocol Rmay apply to a broader class of games than the strong self tests.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of routines subroutines applications or instructions. These may constitute either software e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware. In hardware the routines etc. are tangible units capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connects the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of the example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but also deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but also deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description and the claims that follow should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

This detailed description is to be construed as an example only and does not describe every possible embodiment as describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. One could implement numerous alternate embodiments using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this application.

