---

title: System and method for managing calls
abstract: A computer-implemented method for managing calls in a collaboration environment is provided. The method includes receiving, by a processor, a call into a collaboration session of the collaboration environment. The method also includes identifying, by the processor, a user from a plurality of users associated with the collaboration session, based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of users. The method further includes providing, by the processor, an interface on a device associated with the identified user, wherein the interface enables the identified user to instruct the device to handle the call within the collaboration session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521173&OS=09521173&RS=09521173
owner: RINGCENTRAL, INC.
number: 09521173
owner_city: Belmont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150929
---
The present disclosure relates to the field of communication systems and more particularly to systems and methods for managing calls.

In some group electronic communication environments such as a collaboration environment group members users or participants engage in online and or offline communications to exchange ideas and information discuss work related issues share documents and files etc. A collaboration environment refers to a virtual e.g. computerized and or physical environment in which users also referred to as participants collaborate with each other by exchanging information and data. For example in a collaboration environment participants communicate with each other via emails text messages chats audio messages video messages etc. Participants can also exchange files and documents and review saved or archived communication records such as electronic messages e.g. emails and text messages and shared documents and or files. A collaboration environment is implemented as a system that includes both software e.g. software applications and hardware components e.g. computing devices circuits etc. . A collaboration environment includes one or a plurality of collaboration sessions.

A collaboration session in a collaboration environment can be implemented in a desktop environment as e.g. a standalone desktop client application or a web based application integrated within a web browser such as Firefox Internet Explorer Safari etc. The collaboration session in a desktop environment can be implemented on a desktop computer a laptop etc. A collaboration session can also be implemented in a mobile environment as a standalone mobile client application or app or as a web based application integrated within a mobile web browser provided in a mobile environment such as mobile versions of Firefox Internet Explorer Safari etc. In both the desktop environment and the mobile environment a collaboration session includes a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI that is a standalone software interface or integrated within a web browser. A collaboration session refers to an ongoing collaboration session or a collaboration session occurred in the past.

In a collaboration session e.g. a chat session a group meeting or conference session members or participants of the collaboration session may receive a call which may be a telephone call including a voice message that uses landline phone services cellular wireless phone services voice over IP VoIP phone services. The call may also include an audio call and or a video call that uses technologies other than traditional phone services such as desktop and or mobile applications that enable audio and or video communication. For example while a collaboration session is underway a participant or the collaboration session may receive a call from a caller who is not a participant of the collaboration session. As another example while a participant is reviewing archived communication content of a collaboration session that is not currently underway e.g. a past collaboration session the participant may receive a call. The call into the collaboration session may be initiated from outside of the collaboration session. The term outside means the call is initiated by a caller using a device not included in devices and systems associated with the collaboration session. For example the caller can be a person or a machine e.g. a computer which does not currently participate in the ongoing collaboration session or did not participate in the past collaboration session. The person or machine calls a collaboration session or a participant of the collaboration session using a device such as telephone that is not a device associated with the collaboration session hence the call is initiated from outside of the collaboration session . In some embodiments the caller may be a participant of the collaboration environment such as a participant of another collaboration session. For example a first participant of a first collaboration session may call a second collaboration session or a second participant of a second collaboration session using a user device associated with the first collaboration session or using a telephone which are not devices associated with the second collaboration session hence the call to the second collaboration session is initiated from outside of the second collaboration session . In some embodiments the caller is not a participant of the collaboration environment. For example the caller is a user of a telephone system that is separated from the collaboration system. The caller initiates a call to a collaboration session using a telephone device included in the telephone system hence the call is initiated from outside of the collaboration session .

When the collaboration session receives a call initiated from outside of the collaboration session the existing collaboration systems do not enable users to manage the call in a convenient way. In some systems the users have to leave the collaboration systems to answer the call.

In one disclosed embodiment a computer implemented method for managing calls in a collaboration environment is disclosed. The method includes receiving by a processor a call into a collaboration session of the collaboration environment. The method also includes identifying by the processor a user from a plurality of users associated with the collaboration session based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of users. The method further includes providing by the processor an interface on a device associated with the identified user wherein the interface enables the identified user to instruct the device to handle the call within the collaboration session.

In another disclosed embodiment a communication server for managing calls in a collaboration environment is disclosed. The communication server includes at least one memory configured for storing instructions. The communication server also includes at least one processor in communication with the at least one memory and configured to execute the instructions to receive a call into a collaboration session of the collaboration environment. The at least one processor is also configured to execute the instructions to identify a user from a plurality of users associated with the collaboration session based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of users. The at least one processor is further configured to provide an interface on a device associated with the identified user wherein the interface enables the identified user to instruct the device to handle the call within the collaboration session.

In yet another disclosed embodiment an electronic device is disclosed. The electronic device includes a display configured to display a collaboration interface for a collaboration session. The electronic device also includes at least one processor configured to receive a call into the collaboration session. The at least one processor is also configured to provide an interface within the collaboration interface of the collaboration session on the display the interface including one or more selectable elements for the user to handle the call within the collaboration session.

In yet another disclosed embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is provided. The computer readable medium is encoded with instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method for managing calls in a collaboration environment. The method includes receiving a call into a collaboration session of the collaboration environment. The method also includes identifying a user from a plurality of users associated with the collaboration session based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of users. The method further includes providing an interface on a device associated with the identified user wherein the interface enables the identified user to instruct the device to handle the call within the collaboration session.

Reference will now be made in detail to the example embodiments implemented according to the present disclosure the examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In an online or offline collaboration session e.g. a chat session participants perform various activities such as communicating with each other to exchange information and or documents reviewing communication records retrieving a shared document etc. When the collaboration session or a participant of the collaboration session receives a call such as a telephone call an audio and or video call initiated from outside of the collaboration session one or more of the participants of conventional collaboration systems have to leave the collaboration session and use a separate client or application having a separate user interface for answering the call. In some instances the separate client or application can be running on a device that is different from the device s being used by the participant s of the collaboration session when participating in the collaboration session. Thus it is desirable to provide systems and methods that enable a participant of the collaboration session to manage calls within the collaboration session.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide methods devices and systems for managing calls such as telephone calls within a collaboration session. Telephone calls include landline calls cellular wireless calls VoIP calls etc. Below for convenience telephone calls are used as example calls although the same or similar disclosure may also be applied to other types of calls such as video and or audio calls performed using a collaboration interface or other audio video applications between different collaboration sessions. Consistent with disclosed embodiments a computer implemented method for managing a call in a collaboration environment is disclosed. The method includes receiving by a processor the call from outside of a collaboration session of the collaboration environment. The method also includes identifying by the processor a user from a plurality of users of the collaboration session based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of users. The method further includes providing by the processor an interface on a device associated with the identified user wherein the interface enables the identified user to instruct the device to handle the call within the collaboration session.

The disclosed embodiments also include a communication server for managing a call in a collaboration environment. The communication server includes at least one memory configured for storing instructions. The communication server also includes at least one processor in communication with the at least one memory and configured to execute the instructions to receive the call from outside of a collaboration session of the collaboration environment. The at least one processor is also configured to execute the instructions to identify a participant or user from a plurality of participants or users of the collaboration session based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of participants or users. The at least one processor is further configured to provide an interface on a device associated with the identified user wherein the interface enables the identified user to instruct the device to handle the call within the collaboration session.

The disclosed embodiments further include an electronic device. The electronic device includes a display configured to display a collaboration interface for a collaboration session. The electronic device also includes at least one processor configured to receive a call from outside of the collaboration session. The at least one processor is also configured to provide an interface within the collaboration interface of the collaboration session on the display the interface including one or more selectable elements for the user to handle the call within the collaboration session.

The embodiments herein include computer implemented methods tangible non transitory computer readable mediums and systems. The computer implemented methods can be executed for example by at least one processor that receives instructions from a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Similarly systems and devices consistent with the present disclosure can include at least one processor and memory and the memory can be a non transitory computer readable storage medium. As used herein a non transitory computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by at least one processor can be stored. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage medium. Singular terms such as memory and computer readable storage medium can additionally refer to multiple structures such a plurality of memories or computer readable storage mediums. As referred to herein a memory can comprise any type of computer readable storage medium unless otherwise specified. A computer readable storage medium can store instructions for execution by at least one processor including instructions for causing the processor to perform steps or stages consistent with an embodiment herein. Additionally one or more computer readable storage mediums can be utilized in implementing a computer implemented method. The term computer readable storage medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals.

The disclosed methods and systems are implemented in the desktop and or mobile environments. In the desktop and or mobile environments the disclosed collaboration methods and systems are implemented as a stand alone application or software or are implemented within a web browser such as a WebRTC based environment. The present disclosure arises out of the realization that conventional collaboration systems do not enable a user to manage a call e.g. a telephone call within a collaboration session and often require the user to use a separate device or application to manage the call. Requiring the user to use a separate device or application separate from the collaboration session is cumbersome and reduces collaboration productivity. Moreover requiring the user to have separate devices or applications increases the operation costs. The disclosed methods and systems enable a user of a collaboration session to manage a call within the collaboration session without having to resort to a separate device or software application. Productivity is thus improved and operation costs are reduced.

As shown in communication system includes a collaboration system . Collaboration system includes one or more user devices A D a network a communication server and a database . Collaboration system also includes a storage device such as a hard disk a memory etc. configured to store data. The components and arrangements shown in are not intended to limit the disclosed embodiments as the system components used to implement the disclosed processes and features may vary. For example communication system may include multiple communication servers and each communication server may host a certain type of communication service e.g. IM VoIP video conferencing such that various types of multimedia services may be provided to user devices .

Communication server is also referred to as a collaboration server hereinafter. Collaboration server is configured to provide communication services such as text based audio based and or video based communications etc. to user devices A D. Collaboration server includes both hardware and software components such as a memory a processor computer instructions or code.

Communication system includes a telephone server and an electronic message server which includes an email server and a text message server . In some embodiments electronic message server is provided with an email function and a text messaging function and separate email server and text message server are not provided. Similarly the electronic message server is configured to send and receive faxes in some embodiments. The term electronic message includes text messages emails faxes audio and or video messages short message service SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages faxes and the like. At least one of telephone server and electronic message server is separate from collaboration system and connected with collaboration server via the Internet or other networks such as telephone lines wireless cellular networks local area networks LAN etc. Each of telephone server and electronic message server includes both hardware and software components such as a memory a processor computer instructions or code. In some embodiments one or both of telephone server and electronic message server are included within collaboration system . For example in some embodiments electronic message server is included in collaboration system and telephone server is included in a telephone system such as a landline telephone system a wireless cellular telephone system or a VoIP telephone system which is separate from and outside of collaboration system .

Telephone server is connected to a telephone through the telephone system not shown . A plurality of telephones may be included in the telephone system and connected to telephone server . Telephone server is also connected with one or more user devices A D through the telephone system. When a user of telephone or a user device e.g. one of user devices initiates a telephone call to collaboration system the telephone call is processed by the telephone system e.g. by telephone server . Telephone server directs or routes the telephone call to collaboration system . Telephone server includes various hardware and software components known in the art to direct or route the call.

The disclosed collaboration methods and systems can be implemented in a desktop environment and or a mobile environment. In each environment the disclosed collaboration methods and systems can be implemented as a standalone application or software e.g. a desktop client application or a mobile app . Alternatively the collaboration application that implements the disclosed methods and systems can be integrated within a web browser a desktop web browser or a mobile web browser . In the desktop environment the standalone desktop collaboration application or the desktop web browser that integrates the collaboration application is provided with call handling functions. A call can be directed or routed by telephone server to the standalone desktop collaboration application or software or to the desktop web browser. The standalone desktop collaboration application or software or the desktop web browser receives the call and handles the call in accordance with the disclosed embodiments.

In the mobile environment the mobile collaboration app or mobile web browser that integrates the collaboration app is provided with call handling functions. A call can be directed or routed by telephone server to the mobile collaboration app or the mobile web browser. The mobile collaboration app or mobile web browser receives the call and handles the call in accordance with the disclosed embodiments.

Alternatively and additionally in some mobile environments when user devices A D are smart phones and other mobile devices the disclosed methods and systems can use a native dialer e.g. a telephony service circuit and or software application provided with the smart phone or other mobile device to receive and handle calls. A call routed to the smart phone or other mobile device can be received and handled by the native dialer. The native dialer can be a typical dialer that is provided within smart phone or other mobile device for making or receiving phone calls. Alternatively the native dialer can be an independent dedicated native dialer specifically designed and programmed for handling calls received by collaboration systems . In either case the native dialer receives calls and cooperates with the mobile collaboration app or the mobile web browser that integrates the collaboration app. Similarly in some example embodiments the native dialer can communicate with the collaboration system through a telephony application programming interface API . For example when the native dialer receives the call the native dialer forwards the call to the mobile collaboration app or the mobile web browser that integrates the collaboration app. In the mobile environment when a native dialer is used the collaboration server can be eliminated in some embodiments. In such embodiments a call is directly routed to the native dialer instead of being routed to the collaboration server before being routed to the native dialer. For example in a collaboration session including one or more participants a call directed to the collaboration session can cause the native dialers provided in all or some of the smart phones or other mobile devices associated with the one or more participants to ring. As another example a caller dials a telephone number associated with the smart phone or other mobile device associated with a particular participant and the native dialer provided with the smart phone or other mobile device receives and handles the call thereby bypassing collaboration server . Accordingly in some embodiments collaboration server is not included. In some embodiments when native dialers are used to receive and handle calls collaboration server can co exist. Collaboration server may be configured to handle other processes or functions associated with collaboration system .

In some embodiments a smart phone or other mobile device uses both the native dialer and the mobile application or web browser that is provided with call handling functions. When the smart phone or mobile device receives a call at least one of the native dialer the mobile application and the mobile web browser rings to alert the user of the incoming call. The user handles the call using at least one of the native dialer the mobile application or the mobile web browser. In some embodiments the native dialer handles the call. In some embodiments the native dialer re routes the call to the mobile application or mobile web browser which is provided with call handling functions. The mobile application or web browser handles the call re routed from the native dialer. In some embodiments the native dialer rings when receiving the call and the mobile application or web browser takes over control of the native dialer and handles the call using the native dialer or the call handling functions provided with the mobile application or web browser.

Collaboration system includes one or a plurality of online and or offline collaboration sessions. Each collaboration session includes one or a plurality of participants. A participant of a collaboration session may be a participant of an ongoing current collaboration session or a participant of a past collaboration session. In some embodiments each collaboration session is associated with a telephone number. A user of telephone hereinafter caller can call the telephone number associated with the collaboration session to reach participants of the collaboration session.

In some embodiments collaboration sessions are not associated with telephone numbers. A caller can call a telephone number associated with collaboration system and collaboration server identifies a target or destination collaboration session from the plurality of collaboration sessions as the recipient of the telephone call based on e.g. contextual information associated with the call or caller and or information e.g. characteristics regarding the collaboration sessions. Collaboration server directs the telephone call to the identified target collaboration session.

In some embodiments each user device associated with each participant of a collaboration session is associated with a telephone number and a caller dials the telephone number to reach the particular participant associated with the user device . In some embodiments when a participant receives a call the participant determines based on contextual information associated with the call or the caller which has been received by the participant either before receiving the call or at substantially the same time as the call that the call should be directed to a collaboration session or another participant. The participant who receives the call then forwards the call to the collaboration session or another participant. The contextual information associated with the call or the caller is identified by collaboration server from various sources such as electronic messages received from electronic message server .

In some embodiments after directing the telephone call to the identified target collaboration session collaboration server further identifies a user or participant from a plurality of users or participants of the collaboration session based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and or the caller and information regarding the plurality of users or participants of the collaboration session. After identifying the participant to receive the call collaboration server directs the telephone call to the identified participant. In some embodiments collaboration server causes an interface to be displayed on a user device e.g. one of user devices A D associated with the identified participant. The interface may be displayed on the user device for example within a collaboration interface associated with the collaboration session. The collaboration interface is provided with user devices as a standalone application or software or may be integrated within a web browser provided with the user devices.

The collaboration server causes an interface to be displayed within the collaboration session on a user device e.g. one of user devices A D . The interface enables a user to instruct an associated user device to handle calls within the collaboration session. In some example embodiments the interface provides selectable or operable user interface elements e.g. selectable clickable and or touchable buttons configured to receive a user input from the user. The user input instructs the user device to handle the call e.g. to answer forward or reject the call or to divert the call to voicemail to place the call on hold to park the call etc. . In some embodiments the user input includes instructions to the native dialer included in the user device that the telephone call will be handled by the standalone desktop or mobile collaboration application or the desktop or mobile web browser that integrates the collaboration application. In some embodiments the selectable elements receive a drag and drop input from the user which causes the selectable elements to be dragged and dropped onto an icon representing a specific user or participant causing the user device to direct the telephone call to that specific user or participant. In some embodiments the selectable elements are dragged and dropped onto an icon representing another collaboration session causing the user device to direct the telephone call to that other collaboration session.

In some embodiments communication system includes more than one collaboration system more than one telephone server more than one electronic message server e.g. more than one email server and or more than one text message server . In some embodiments a user device included in a first collaboration system initiates through the telephone system including telephone server a call to a second collaboration system . The call to the second collaboration system is initiated from outside of second collaboration system and hence outside of a collaboration session included in second collaboration system .

In some embodiments the same collaboration system includes a plurality of collaboration sessions some of which may be ongoing collaboration sessions and some of which may be deleted e.g. temporarily deleted or masked or archived collaboration sessions. A participant in a first collaboration session initiates a call through the telephone system including telephone server to a second collaboration session within the same collaboration system . The telephone call to the second collaboration session is initiated through telephone server . The call to the second collaboration session is initiated from outside of the second collaboration session.

Network facilitates communications and sharing of content between user devices and at least one of collaboration server telephone server and electronic message server . Network is any type of network that provides communications exchanges information and or facilitates the exchange of information between collaboration server telephone server electronic message server and user devices . For example network can be the Internet a Local Area Network a cellular network a public switched telephone network PSTN or other suitable connection s that enables communication system to send and receive information between the components of communication system . Network supports a variety of messaging formats and a variety of services and applications for user devices . A network similar to network may connect collaboration server and telephone server and electronic message server .

Collaboration server is typically configured to provide collaboration services to user devices . The collaboration services use text based audio based and or video based communication technologies. Collaboration server includes a computer based system including computer system components desktop computers workstations tablets hand held computing devices memory devices and or internal network s connecting the components. Collaboration server is configured to receive information from user devices over network process the information store the information and or transmit information to user devices over network .

In some embodiments collaboration server is configured to establish a collaboration session among a group of participants A D collectively participants through associated user devices A D manage the collaboration session for information exchange among participants and control sharing of content among participants . In some embodiments collaboration server maintains and manages a plurality of group collaboration sessions simultaneously. In some embodiments collaboration server is configured to maintain a list of participants for each collaboration session along with the role of each of the participants and their access control settings e.g. a moderator who is the host of the collaboration session a creator who created the collaboration session a user who can post messages and participate in audio and or video conferences and text based communication among the group participants etc. In some implementations the functionality of collaboration server described in the present disclosure is distributed among user devices A D. In some embodiments a part or all of the communication content is stored in one or more of user devices and one or more of user devices perform the function of managing the collaboration session.

In some embodiments collaboration system includes at least one of a database and a storage device . Database and or storage device includes one or more physical or virtual storages in communication with collaboration server directly or through network . For example database and or storage device include hard disks flash drives memory magnetic tape optical discs etc. for storing data. Database and or storage device store for example communication content such as messages exchanged between participants documents and or files shared by various participants communication history etc. of an ongoing collaboration session and or any previously completed collaboration session. Database and or storage device also store text video and or audio messages documents files images or shared content among communication participants . For example storage device and or database store electronic messages such as text messages received from text message server and or emails received from email server . The electronic messages are transmitted to collaboration server and stored in storage device and or database before after or at the time of a call to a collaboration session is initiated through telephone and telephone server . Database and or storage device also store communication history relating to a caller who makes a call to a collaboration session. The communication history includes prior communication content such as electronic messages e.g. emails and or text messages and phone calls involving the caller. The stored data messages documents files or other content provide contextual information about the call and or the caller who initiated the call. Storage device and or database store profile information regarding the users or participants of the collaboration sessions such as for example a function within an organization a job title position in the organization chart technical expertise proficiencies education language and prior communication with the caller etc. The profile information also includes availability data of the users that indicate when each of the users may be available to answer a call.

The data stored in database and or storage device is transmitted to collaboration server before after or during an ongoing collaboration session. In some embodiments the data stored in database and or storage device is transmitted to collaboration server before after or during a call is initiated from telephone to a collaboration session. In some embodiments database and or storage device reside in a cloud based server that is accessible by collaboration server and or user devices through network . While database and or storage device are illustrated as an external device connected to collaboration server in some embodiments database also reside within collaboration server as internal components of collaboration server .

As shown in participants A D of a collaboration session communicate with one another using various types of user devices A D. User devices A D can be a television tablet computer monitor video conferencing console laptop computer cellular phone smart phone wearable device or the like with electronic communications capability. User devices A D include a screen for displaying data or be operatively connected with an external display for displaying data. User devices A D also include video audio input devices such as a video camera web camera or the like. User devices A D include one or more software applications that facilitate the user devices to engage in electronic communications such as electronic messages VoIP calls video audio calls video audio conferences with one another in a collaboration environment where each participant may view content shared by other participants and may share content that can be accessed by other participants in the collaboration environment e.g. in a collaboration session . For example each of user devices A D may display a collaboration interface enabling users of user devices A D to communicate with each other using text based messages audio based messages video based messages and to share content such as documents files etc. In some embodiments communication system also includes devices without display or video capture capabilities such as a cellular phone or a telephone .

Sensors devices and subsystems are coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor are coupled to peripherals interface . Motion sensor is configured to detect a motion e.g. acceleration and or an orientation of user device . Light sensor is configured to sense an amount of light which is used to adjust the brightness of a screen of user device . Proximity sensor is configured to detect a distance between user device and an object outside of user device . The distance information is used for triggering near field communication with another user device or any other device that provides near field communication functions.

Other sensors are connected to peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities. A GPS receiver is integrated with or connected to user device . For example a GPS receiver may be built into mobile telephones such as smartphone devices. GPS software allows mobile telephones to use an internal or external GPS receiver e.g. connecting via a serial port or Bluetooth . A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor are utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions are facilitated through one or more communication subsystems which may be wired or wireless communication subsystems. For example communication subsystems include an Ethernet port radio frequency receivers and transmitters WiFi or cellular wireless transceivers and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the wireless wired communication subsystem depends on the communication network s over which user device is intended to operate. For example in some embodiments user device includes wireless wired communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network.

Communication subsystems also include a subsystem for handling audio video calls. The subsystem for handling calls includes a native dialer that includes a circuit and a software application configured to provide telephony services such as PSTN or VoIP calls. The native dialer enables a user of user device to dial a phone number to initiate a call and to receive and handle a call e.g. answer the call reject the call hold the call forward the call divert the call to voice mail conference multiple calls etc. . In some embodiments when a participant of a collaboration session receives a call on user device the native dialer cooperates with a collaboration interface of the collaboration session. For example in some embodiments the native dialer forwards or re routes the call to the desktop software application or mobile application that implements the collaboration methods disclosed herein or to the desktop web browser or mobile web browser that implements the collaboration methods disclosed herein. In some embodiments when the native dialer receives the call processor also receives contextual information associated with the call e.g. an electronic message indicating the subject of the call . Processor determines based on the contextual information that another participant or another collaboration session should receive the call and instructs the native dialer to forward the call to the other participant or collaboration session. The native dialer includes a software application which is displayed as an interface when a call is received on screen to alert the user of user device of the incoming call. The interface includes one or more selectable elements for receiving user inputs. For example the one or more elements include an element for answering a call an element for rejecting or ignoring a call an element for forwarding a call an element for diverting a call to voice mail an element for holding a call and an element for conferencing multiple calls etc. The native dialer may be part of the operating system of the user device or a standalone application such as a desktop client application or mobile application app .

An audio subsystem is coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem includes a screen controller and or other input controller s . The screen controller is coupled to a screen . Screen is a touch screen or a non touch screen such as a CRT or LCD LED non touch screen. When screen is a touch screen screen and screen controller are configured to for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with screen . Screen is used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard. In some embodiments touch screen is configured to receive user input such as touching tapping double tapping pressing holding swiping dragging and dropping clicking double clicking etc.

The other input controller s is coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus.

Memory interface is coupled to a memory . Memory includes high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . Memory stores an operating system such as DRAWIN RTXC LINUX iOS UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VXWorkS. The operating system includes instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations operating system is a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

Memory is configured to store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. Memory includes graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions. Memory also includes multimedia conference call managing instructions to facilitate conference call related processes and instructions.

The phone instructions include instructions to the native dialer provided within communication subsystems of user device for handling phone calls. For example phone instructions include instructions which when executed by processor cause screen to display an interface including one or more elements for receiving user inputs that instruct the native dialer how to handle the calls. The phone instructions include instructions corresponding to the various elements of the interface for handling the call.

In some embodiments communication instructions include software applications such as a desktop client application a mobile application or app a desktop web browser and a mobile web browser to facilitate connection with collaboration server that hosts group communication between a group of participants. Graphical user interface GUI instructions include a software program that facilitates a participant associated with user device to receive communication content from collaboration server provide user input and so on. Graphical user interface instructions include a software program that facilitates a participant associated with the user device to provide a user input such as selection of one of a plurality of selectable elements displayed on a screen to instruct user device to handle a call e.g. to answer reject forward a call or divert the call to voice mail .

Each of the identified instructions and applications correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. In some embodiments memory includes additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of user device are implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Processor includes one or more processing devices configured to perform functions of the disclosed methods such as a microprocessor manufactured by Intel or manufactured by AMD . Processor constitutes a single core or multiple core processors executing parallel processes simultaneously. In some embodiments processor is a single core processor configured with virtual processing technologies. In some embodiments processor uses logical processors to simultaneously execute and control multiple processes. Processor implements virtual machine technologies or other technologies to provide the ability to execute control run manipulate store etc. multiple software processes applications programs etc. In some embodiments processor includes a multiple core processor arrangement e.g. dual quad core etc. configured to provide parallel processing functionalities to allow collaboration server to execute multiple processes simultaneously. In some embodiments other types of processor arrangements are used in processor to provide for the capabilities disclosed herein.

Email interface enables collaboration server e.g. processor to communicate with email server by emails. Email interface includes both software and hardware components. In some embodiments email interface includes an email application or software such as a web based email portal. Email interface also includes hardware components such as circuits and processors configured for email applications.

Text message interface enables collaboration server e.g. processor to communicate with text message server by text messages. Text message interface includes both software and hardware components. In some embodiments text message interface includes a text messaging application or software such as an instant messaging interface. Text message interface includes hardware components such as circuits and processors configured for text messaging applications.

In some embodiments email interface and text message interface are integrated within an electronic messaging interface that is provided with email and text message handling functions. In such embodiments separate email interface and text message interface are not provided.

In some embodiments user device includes an email interface which may be similar to email interface . The email interface included in user device enables user device to send and receive emails to and from other systems and devices such as collaboration system . In some embodiments user device includes a text message interface which is similar to text message interface . The text message interface included in user device enables user device to send and receive text messages to and from other systems and devices such as collaboration system .

Based on an input received from a caller e.g. user of telephone or any other user devices A D telephone server initiates a call e.g. a telephone call to collaboration system . For example in some embodiments telephone server initiates the call to a participant of a collaboration session directly e.g. by calling a phone number associated with a user device of the participant . In some embodiments telephone server initiates the call to a collaboration session that is associated with a phone number.

In some embodiments before after and during the call based on an input received from the caller electronic message server sends electronic messages to collaboration server . For example based on the input received from the caller email server sends an email to collaboration server . Based on an input received from the caller text message server sends a text message to collaboration server . The electronic messages e.g. email and or text message provide contextual information regarding the call. The contextual information includes the purpose of the call e.g. to discuss a marketing idea . After collaboration server receives the electronic messages collaboration server analyzes the content of the electronic messages and based on the analysis identifies the contextual information e.g. the purpose of the call is to discuss a marketing idea relating to the call.

Collaboration server uses the contextual information identified from the electronic messages received from the caller including ongoing electronic messages and archived electronic messages to determine or identify a collaboration session from a plurality of collaboration sessions as a destination to direct the call. For example collaboration server may analyze prior emails about marketing with expectation that a call from the marketing representative will be forthcoming. When collaboration server receives a call from the marketing representative collaboration server directs the call to a collaboration session of the marketing department. As another example when a product manager calls collaboration server analyzes prior electronic messages exchanged during collaboration sessions and identify a collaboration session that discussed product improvements and directs the call to the collaboration session. In some embodiments collaboration server analyzes ongoing emails or text messages exchanged between participants in a plurality of collaboration sessions to identify a collaboration session in which a subject of discussion relates to or closely matches the contextual information related to the call and directs the call to the identified collaboration session. The process of identifying a collaboration session from a plurality of collaboration sessions is not performed if there is only one collaboration session in collaboration system or if the dialed number is assigned to a particular collaboration session.

After identifying the collaboration session collaboration server causes a notification e.g. a call notification user interface regarding the incoming call to be displayed within a collaboration interface of the collaboration session that is displayed on the user device associated with at least one participant in the collaboration session. The same or similar interfaces are displayed on some or all of the user devices of the participants of the collaboration session enabling the participants to collaborate e.g. share communication content with one another using various communication mechanisms.

In some embodiments the at least one participant is an administrator or moderator of the collaboration session. The notification is displayed within the collaboration interface of the moderator of the collaboration session. The moderator manages the call or identifies a participant to manage the call.

In some embodiments the at least one participant includes some or all of the participants and the notification is displayed within the collaboration interface of the collaboration session that is displayed on the user devices associated with some or all of the participants. In some embodiments the notification includes contextual information regarding the call or the contextual information is displayed within the collaboration interface as a message adjacent within or separate from the notification. Collaboration server determines a participant to receive the call based on the contextual information. In some embodiments collaboration server determines a participant to receive the call based on a user input e.g. a drag and drop input on the notification received at a user device associated with the moderator of the collaboration session.

In some embodiments after identifying the participant of the call the participant may be referred to as the recipient participant collaboration server enables display of a same similar or different notification regarding the call within the collaboration interface of the collaboration session on the user device associated with the recipient participant to enable the participant to provide an input to the user device to instruct the user device to handle the call e.g. answering the call rejecting the call forwarding the call to someone or diverting it to voice mail .

Collaboration server includes one or more storage devices configured to store information used by processor or other components to perform certain functions related to the disclosed embodiments. For example collaboration server includes memory that includes instructions to enable collaboration server to execute one or more applications such as server apps operating system and any other type of application or software known to be available on computer systems. Alternatively or additionally the instructions application programs etc. are stored in database and or storage device which are external to collaboration server . In some embodiments database and or storage device are included within collaboration server .

Memory database and or storage device include a volatile or non volatile magnetic semiconductor tape optical removable non removable or other type of storage device or tangible or non transitory computer readable medium. Memory storage device and or database include one or more memory devices that store data and instructions that processor accesses for example to perform one or more features of the disclosed embodiments. Memory storage device and or database also include any combination of one or more databases controlled by memory controller devices e.g. server s etc. or software such as document management systems Microsoft SQL databases SharePoint databases Oracle databases Sybase databases or other relational databases.

In some embodiments memory is a volatile or non volatile magnetic semiconductor tape optical removable non removable or other type of storage device or tangible or non transitory computer readable medium that stores one or more program s such as server apps and operating system and data . Common forms of non transitory media include for example a flash drive a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other flash memory NVRAM a cache a register any other memory chip or cartridge and networked versions of the same.

Programs include one or more software modules causing collaboration server to perform one or more functions of the disclosed embodiments. Moreover collaboration server executes one or more programs located remotely from one or more components of communication system . For example collaboration server accesses one or more remote programs that when executed perform functions related to disclosed embodiments.

Server app s cause collaboration server to perform one or more functions of the disclosed methods. For example server app s cause collaboration server to establish a communication group e.g. a collaboration session among a plurality of participants. Server app s also cause collaboration server to provide an interface within a collaboration interface of the collaboration session to enable one or more participants of the collaboration session to instruct at least one user device to handle a call initiated outside of the collaboration session. In some embodiments other components of the communication system are configured to perform one or more functions of the disclosed methods. For example user devices A D are configured to receive a user input relating to a notification for specifying a recipient participant to receive the call.

In some embodiments program s include s operating system performing operating system functions when executed by one or more processors such as the processor . By way of example operating system includes Microsoft Windows Unix Linux Apple operating systems Personal Digital Assistant PDA type operating systems such as Microsoft CE or other types of operating systems. Accordingly disclosed embodiments may operate and function with computer systems running any type of operating system . Collaboration server also includes software that when executed by processor provides communications with network through a network interface and or a direct connection to one or more user devices A D.

In some embodiments data includes for example profiles of participants of a communication group e.g. a collaboration session . Profile information of a user or participant may include for example a function within an organization a job title technical expertise education language and prior communication with the caller etc. In some embodiments data includes instant messages sent by the participants during an ongoing collaboration session documents and audio video files shared by the participants of the collaboration session communication content e.g. messages documents and files etc. archived for a prior collaboration session and access control settings associated with the shared documents and or files.

Collaboration server also includes one or more I O devices having one or more interfaces for receiving signals or input from devices and providing signals or output to one or more devices that allow data to be communicated received and or transmitted by collaboration server . In some embodiments I O devices include interface components for interfacing with one or more input devices such as one or more keyboards mouse devices touch screen USB data ports and the like which enable collaboration server to receive input from a user e.g. an operator or administrator of collaboration server .

Network interface includes hardware components and software components that enable collaboration server to communicate with network . In some embodiments network interface includes a modem an Ethernet card an Ethernet cable port a WiFi transceiver and or software including instructions and protocols for communication.

Telephone service interface includes hardware and software components that enable collaboration server to communicate with a telephone system that includes telephone server . Telephone server interface enables collaboration server to receive a telephone call from the telephone system. For example based on an input received from a user of telephone or any of user devices telephone server initiates a call to a collaboration session or a participant of the collaboration session. Collaboration server receives the call through telephone service interface . Telephone service interface is also associated with other devices included in collaboration system for example to route direct or forward a call to a collaboration session and or to a user device associated with a participant.

When a plurality of collaboration sessions are included in collaboration system collaboration server identifies one of the collaboration sessions for receiving an incoming call from telephone server . Collaboration server identifies the collaboration session through various methods. In some embodiments each collaboration session is associated with a unique identifier such as a name a telephone number an extension number etc. When a call is initiated by telephone server the call specifies an identifier of a collaboration session. Collaboration server automatically identifies a collaboration session by matching the identifier specified by the call with the unique identifier of the collaboration session and route the call to the identified collaboration session. In some embodiments the identifier specified by the call is represented as a caller ID.

As another example collaboration server obtains contextual information regarding the call. Contextual information is obtained through various methods. In some embodiments collaboration server obtains contextual information based on an input provided by the caller during an Interactive Voice Response IVR process one or more electronic messages e.g. emails from email server and or text messages from text message server regarding the call sent by the caller before after or during the time the call is initiated through telephone server . Collaboration server also obtains contextual information based on communication history e.g. prior communication content archived in database and or storage device involving the caller including for example prior electronic messages emails and or text messages received from the caller and or notes taken during prior calls which are related to the caller.

In some embodiments before after or during the time the call is initiated through telephone server an IVR system associated with telephone server prompts the caller to answer questions by inputting selections of menu options or by a voice input. The user input received from the caller relates to the subject matter of the call e.g. purpose of the call is to discuss a marketing idea . After the caller inputs the purpose of the call telephone server provides the user input to collaboration server . Collaboration server analyzes the input during the IVR process to obtain contextual information regarding the call. In some embodiments the IVR system sends the user input to electronic message server e.g. to email server and or text message server which sends an electronic message e.g. an email and or a text message including the user input to collaboration server . Collaboration server analyzes the electronic message to identify contextual information relating to the call e.g. the purpose of the call is to discuss a marketing idea.

In some embodiments the caller sends electronic messages e.g. emails and or text messages to collaboration server before after or during the time the call is initiated. The electronic messages received from electronic message server e.g. email server and or text message server indicate the subject matter of the call. Collaboration server analyzes the electronic messages to identify the contextual information regarding the call. In some embodiments collaboration server obtains communication history involving the caller from database and or storage device . The communication history includes prior communication content such as emails text messages and or prior phone call records. Collaboration server analyzes the communication history to obtain contextual information regarding the call.

Collaboration server identifies the subject matter of the call e.g. to discuss a marketing idea based on the contextual information. For example collaboration server identifies a collaboration session from a plurality of collaboration sessions based on the subject matter of the call and information e.g. characteristics of the collaboration sessions. In some embodiments collaboration server compares the subject matter of the call with information regarding the collaboration sessions such as characteristics of the collaboration session including the subject of discussion and the profile of the participants of the collaboration session. For example collaboration server identifies the collaboration session to receive the call when it determines that the subject of discussion of the collaboration session matches or closely relates to the subject matter of the call.

As another example collaboration server identifies the collaboration session to receive the call by comparing the subject matter of the call with the profile of the participants. The profile of the participants of the collaboration sessions includes various information regarding the participants such as a function within an organization marketing sales legal customer services etc. a job title e.g. Marketing Assistant Legal Counsel Sales Customer Services etc. technical expertise e.g. engineering sales marketing legal advice etc. education language e.g. English Spanish German etc. and prior communication with the caller e.g. notes showing a participant having communicated with caller etc. Collaboration server determines based on the profile and the subject matter of the call that some participants of a collaboration session are best suited to answer the call. For example if the subject matter of the call relates to marketing collaboration server identifies a collaboration session having participants from the marketing department as the destination collaboration session for the call.

After a collaboration session is identified collaboration server directs the call to the collaboration session. shows an example collaboration interface for a collaboration session that is displayed on user devices e.g. user devices A D which may be handheld devices smart phones tablets desktop computers laptop computers and servers e.g. collaboration server included in collaboration system for managing calls in a collaboration session. The collaboration session enables two or more users or participants to collaborate with each other such as sharing contents files and or documents and communicating electronically using text based audio based and or video based communication mechanisms. Each participant of the collaboration session is associated with at least a user device e.g. one of user devices A D that displays a similar collaboration interface . Collaboration interface is also displayed on a computer and or server associated with an administrator of collaboration system and or moderators of the collaboration sessions.

Collaboration interface provides a collaborative platform enabling participants to communicate and collaborate with each other. For example collaboration interface enables participants to exchange information through online communication to access calendars e.g. send and receive calendar invitations to access tasks list e.g. share tasks and or progresses of a task to share files documents and webpages and to process files e.g. opening editing sharing documents stored in the user device and or in collaboration server and to access archived or cached or temporarily deleted communication content including messages files and or documents .

As shown in collaboration interface includes or displays a plurality of selectable e.g. clickable touchable user interface items. In some embodiments collaboration interface includes fewer or additional selectable interface items. In the example shown in collaboration interface includes a header section indicating that collaboration interface is associated with collaboration session 1 which may be a past session or an ongoing session. If the collaboration session is no longer active it may be marked as an archived or deleted collaboration session. Collaboration interface includes a search box which is configured to receive an input of a key word or a key phrase for searching the word or phrase in a plurality of resources such as a contacts list a list of teams a list of groups a calendar a tasks list a file folder etc. Collaboration interface displays a list of people people list or contacts list listing contacts of the user associated with the user device on which collaboration interface is displayed. In the example shown in two persons Tony and Emily are included in the list of people .

Collaboration interface displays a list of teams such as Team 1 and Team 2. Under each team one or more users associated with the team are also displayed. In the example shown in three users User 1 User 2 and User 3 are listed under team 1. Collaboration interface displays a list of groups . For example two groups Group 1 and Group 2 are included in list of groups . In some embodiments a group includes one or more teams. A team includes participants from different groups or the same group. In the example shown in collaboration session 1 may include participants from Team 1 Team 2 Group 1 or Group 2.

Collaboration interface displays an icon for accessing a calendar. When collaboration server receives a user input on icon e.g. an input indicating selection of icon collaboration server causes a calendar to be displayed within collaboration interface of the collaboration session 1. In some embodiments collaboration server causes the calendar to be displayed outside of collaboration interface for example through an interface separate from collaboration interface for displaying calendars.

Collaboration interface displays an icon for accessing a list of tasks. When collaboration server receives a user input on icon e.g. an input indicating selection of icon collaboration server causes a list of tasks to be displayed within collaboration interface of the collaboration session 1. In some embodiments collaboration server causes the list of tasks to be displayed outside of collaboration interface for example through an interface separate from collaboration interface for displaying tasks.

Collaboration interface includes a textbox enabling the user participant associated with the user device that displays collaboration interface to enter a text message for communicating with other participants of the collaboration session. Collaboration interface includes an Enter button selectable e.g. clickable or touchable by a user. After receiving a user input of the text message in textbox when detecting a user input of selecting the Enter button or some other entry assigned to initiate the same operation collaboration server causes the entered text message to be sent and entered into a communication zone and displayed therein. Other methods may be used to enter a message. For example collaboration interface may include an audio and or video input element enabling a user to record an audio and or video message and post the recorded message. Communication zone displays communication content such as audio and or video messages text messages e.g. text messages and entered by a plurality of participants of the collaboration session documents files emotional icons images links to websites e.g. URLs etc.

In some embodiments while a participant is using collaboration interface the collaboration session receives a call from outside of the collaboration session. In some embodiments telephone server initiates a call based on an input received from a user of telephone . In other embodiments telephone server initiates the call based on an input received from a participant of another collaboration session in the same collaboration system or from a participant of another collaboration system. The call may be a video and or an audio call.

As shown in collaboration server causes a notification to be displayed within collaboration interface of the collaboration session. Notification is displayed within collaboration interface integrated within a desktop client application a mobile application or a desktop or mobile web browser. Notification alerts the user associated with the user device on which collaboration interface is being presented that a call e.g. a telephone call a video and or audio call or a voice message has been received. In some embodiments notification includes one or more elements. Notification is repositioned temporarily or permanently within collaboration interface as a whole unit or each of the elements is separable from notification and be moved and repositioned within collaboration interface . In some embodiments each of the elements is selectable e.g. touchable clickable draggable etc. . When collaboration server receives a user input of one of the elements included in notification collaboration server executes a predetermined action associated with the one of the elements. In the example shown in notification includes an element indicating a call has been received. Although element includes text call to indicate a call element may include other means such as icons images animations etc. to indicate a received call. In some embodiments notification includes an element indicating that a voice message has been received. Although element includes text VM to indicate a voice message element may include other means such as icons images animations etc. to indicate a received voice message.

Notification includes elements to indicate various options for instructing the device how to handle the call. For example notification includes an element associated with answering a call an element associated with rejecting the call an element associated with forwarding the call to another recipient or to a voicemail an element for hiding the call e.g. such that notification disappears from collaboration interface . Each of the elements included in notification may be separable from notification and be repositioned within collaboration interface e.g. being separated from notification dragged and dropped at another portion of collaboration interface . In some embodiments notification may be dragged and dropped as a single interface and be repositioned within collaboration interface .

Collaboration server causes notification regarding the call to be displayed in collaboration interface on at least one user device associated with at least one participant of the collaboration session. In some embodiments collaboration server causes notification to be displayed within collaboration interface displayed on the user device e.g. one of user devices A D associated with a moderator or administrator of the collaboration session. In some embodiments collaboration server causes notification to be displayed within collaboration interface displayed on the user devices associated with some or all of the participants of the collaboration session.

As shown in collaboration server receives a drag and drop input as represented by a hand shaped cursor and a dashed line on notification from a user associated with the user device on which collaboration interface is displayed. The drag and drop input may cause notification as a single interface or one or more elements of notification to be repositioned within collaboration interface e.g. to be placed onto an icon representing User 2 in Team 1 who is a participant of collaboration session 1. Based on the drag and drop input collaboration server identifies User 2 as a recipient of the call and directs e.g. forwards or routes the call to the user device associated with User 2.

In some embodiments notification is displayed within collaboration interface displayed on a user device e.g. one of user devices A D of a moderator or a participant of collaboration session 1. The moderator or participant determines which participant of the collaboration session should receive the call and drags and drops notification onto an icon representing that participant e.g. icon representing user 2 listed under Team 1 .

In some embodiments the moderator and or a participant provides an input on notification to instruct the user device associated with the moderator and or the participant to handle the call. For example in some embodiments notification is displayed within collaboration interface on the user devices associated with the moderator of the collaboration session 1 and or some or all of the participants of collaboration session 1. The moderator and or a participant may click press or touch the selectable elements displayed on notification to instruct the user device associated with the moderator and or the participant to handle the call such as answering the call by pressing clicking or touching element rejecting the call by pressing clicking or touching element forwarding the call to another participant collaboration session or phone number by pressing clicking or touching element or hiding the call by pressing clicking or touching element .

In some embodiments collaboration server automatically places the incoming calls in a queue of calls displayed within collaboration interface . In such embodiments collaboration interface does not display notification . Queue displays calls in a list with the older calls on the top and newer calls at the bottom. In some embodiments the calls are sorted in queue in other orders such as based on the importance of the calls. Queue is displayed on the user devices associated with some or all of the participants of the collaboration session. When a call is answered collaboration server updates queue to remove the call. The update is reflected on collaboration interface displayed on some or all of the participants including the moderator of the collaboration session. A brief description of each incoming call is displayed in queue . For example as shown in marketing issue is displayed to describe Call 1 legal issues is displayed to describe Call 2. Additionally and or alternatively caller s identity such as names handles avatars pseudo names login names or the like is displayed for each call if the caller s identity is identified by collaboration server from the contextual information. For example collaboration server identifies the caller s identity from the electronic messages e.g. emails and or text messages received from the caller before after or during the time the call is initiated through telephone server . As another example a caller s identity may be entered by the caller via a text or voice input during the IVR process when the caller initiates the call. Collaboration server analyzes the electronic messages and the caller s input during the IVR process to identify the caller s identity. For example in some embodiments collaboration interface displays in queue Call 3 from Tony Subject financial statements . 

In some embodiments the calls in queue are manually reassigned to a participant. For example in some embodiments the moderator or any participant e.g. a first participant determines who should answer the call and specifies the recipient participant e.g. a second participant by for example dragging and dropping a call in from queue e.g. a first call in the queue or any call in the queue onto an icon e.g. icon representing the recipient participant displayed in the user device associated with the first participant. Upon receiving the drag and drop input from the user device associated with the moderator or any participant collaboration server identifies the second participant as the recipient of the call and directs the call to the second participant.

In some embodiments collaboration server automatically assigns a call to a participant based on the availability data of the plurality of participants. For example collaboration server analyzes the availability data which may be stored in database and or storage device to determine which participant is available or may become available in the next 1 minute 2 minutes 5 minutes etc. and assigns a call or a number of calls to the identified participant.

After collaboration server identifies the user or participant to receive the call collaboration server provides an interface on a user device e.g. one of user device A D associated with the identified user or participant. The interface may be a call notification interface that is similar to notification or different from notification . The interface is displayed within collaboration interface displayed on the user device associated with the user. The interface enables the identified user to instruct the user device to handle the call within the collaboration session such as answering the call forwarding the call diverting the call to a voicemail or rejecting the call etc.

Collaboration server causes the contextual information regarding the call to be displayed as a message within collaboration interface of the collaboration session when notification regarding the call is also displayed. In the example shown in collaboration server causes message Call from John Stems discuss marketing idea to be displayed adjacent notification as a separate item. In some embodiments message is displayed within notification or attached to notification .

Message provides contextual information to a participant and or moderator of the collaboration session such that the participant and or moderator may determine the subject matter of the call. The participant and or moderator of the collaboration session determines which participant is best suited to receive the call based on a comparison of the subject matter of the call and the profile information of the participants. For example the moderator or any participant to whom notification and message are displayed determines that User 2 listed under Team 1 is best suited to answer the call. In some embodiments the determination is based on the contextual information regarding the call as shown in message and the profile of the participants of the collaboration session. For example the profile of the participants of the collaboration sessions includes various type of information regarding the participants such as a function within an organization e.g. member of a marketing department member of legal department etc. a job title e.g. Marketing Assistant Legal Counsel Sales Customer Services etc. technical expertise e.g. engineering sales marketing etc. education language e.g. Spanish English German and prior communication with the caller. In some embodiments the moderator or any participant determines based on the profile and the subject matter of the call that User 2 is best suited to answer the call. For example if the subject matter of the call relates to marketing the moderator or any participant determines that User 2 from the marketing department is best suited to answer the call and drags and drops notification with or without message onto icon representing User 2. After receiving the drag and drop input collaboration server identifies User 2 as a recipient of the call and directs the call to User 2. In some embodiments after receiving the drag and drop input collaboration server displays the same notification and message or similar notification and message on a user device associated with User 2 to enable User 2 to instruct the user device to handle the call e.g. answer the call reject the call divert the call to voicemail or hide the call etc. . The contextual information shown in message assists User 2 to understand the purpose and or subject matter of the call.

In some embodiments when a user receives the call the user responds to the call using communication mechanisms other than audio and or voice communication mechanisms. For example in some embodiments the user types a text message within collaboration interface in response to a call and collaboration server converts the text message into an audio voice message and directs the audio voice message to the caller or to a device e.g. telephone or any of user devices A D associated with the caller or terminates the call and sends the text message to the user.

Method includes receiving a call into a collaboration session of a collaboration environment such as collaboration system step . For example in some embodiments a collaboration session included in collaboration system receives a call such as a telephone call from telephone server located outside of the collaboration session. A caller of telephone dials a telephone number associated with collaboration system and or a collaboration session and telephone server initiates and directs the call to collaboration server . Alternatively or additionally telephone server directs the call to a desktop or mobile software application that is provided with call receiving and handling functions to a desktop or mobile web browser that is provided with call receiving and handling functions or to a native dialer provided within the user devices A D.

Method also includes determining contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of users step . The contextual information may indicate the subject matter of the call such as the purpose of the call. In some embodiments collaboration server analyzes an input received from the caller s selections through the IVR system electronic messages e.g. emails and or text messages received from the caller before after or during the time the call is initiated and or other communication history involving the caller to identify contextual information regarding the call. For example when the call is initiated the caller may provide additional information regarding previous emails and or text messages e.g. date time a previous email or text message was sent by the caller a subject of a previous email or text message in the IVR process. Collaboration server associates the caller with the previous emails and or text messages based on the additional information provided by the caller. In other embodiments collaboration server searches stored communication history including chat entries during the collaboration session or relating collaboration sessions emails text messages notes taken during a call etc. to identify those records that are related to the caller e.g. by searching the phone number or the name of the caller appearing in the records . When receiving the call collaboration server accesses the previously received emails and or text messages to identify the contextual information related to the call. For example collaboration server estimates based on the previous emails and or text messages that a likely subject matter of the call is related to discussing financial statement because in an earlier email or text message the caller has indicated that he she will call again to discuss financial statements.

The information regarding the users includes profile information regarding the users of the collaboration session. The profile information includes a function within an organization e.g. member of a marketing department member of legal department etc. a job title e.g. Marketing Assistant Legal Counsel Sales Customer Services etc. technical expertise e.g. engineering sales marketing etc. education language e.g. Spanish English German and prior communication with the caller. Collaboration server accesses storage device or database and determines the information regarding the users from various data saved in storage device or database regarding the users.

Method also includes identifying a user from a plurality of users of the collaboration session based on at least one of contextual information regarding the call and information regarding the plurality of users step . For example in some embodiments collaboration server identifies a user or participant of the collaboration session from a plurality of users or participants based on contextual information regarding the call and the profile information regarding the users or participants. In some embodiments collaboration server compares the contextual information with the profile information of the users or participants of the collaboration session to determine a match. For example when the subject matter of the call relates to discussing a marketing idea collaboration server determines that a user from the marketing department is best suited to answer the call. When a user is identified based on the match between the contextual information of the call and the information regarding the users collaboration server directs the call to the identified user.

Method also includes providing an interface on a user device associated with the identified user step . For example collaboration server causes an interface which may be similar to notification or different from notification to be displayed within collaboration interface displayed on the user device associated with the user.

Method also includes enabling the identified user to instruct the device to handle the call within the collaboration session step . For example the interface displayed within collaboration interface on the user device enables the user to provide an input to instruct the user device to handle the call e.g. answer the call reject the call forward the call to voicemail or another participant hide the call etc. .

Method further includes receiving an input from the identified user step . In some embodiments the input includes at least one of a press touch swipe or click input on the interface selecting an element of the interface representing a call handling function such as answering the call forwarding the call rejecting the call directing the call to voicemail holding the call conferencing the call etc. In some embodiments the input includes a drag and drop input on the interface or an element of the interface which drags the interface or the element to an icon representing another user or collaboration session and drops the interface or the element onto the icon. In some embodiments the input includes a drag and drop input on the interface or an element of the interface which drags and drops the interface or the element into a queue of calls that are waiting to be answered by participants of a collaboration session who become available.

Method further includes performing a call handling function based on the input step . For example in response to a press touch swipe or click input selecting an element of the interface representing a call handling function a user device on which the input is received performs the corresponding call handling function such as answering the call forwarding the call etc. As another example in response to a drag and drop input on the interface or an element of the interface which drags and drops the interface or the element onto an icon representing another user or collaboration session the user device on which the input is received forwards or directs the call to the other user or collaboration session. As a further example in response to an input that drags and drops the interface or an element of the interface into a queue of calls the device on which the input is received places the call in the queue of calls e.g. places the call on hold .

In some embodiments method includes other steps or processes. For example in some embodiments collaboration server causes display of a notification e.g. notification reflecting the call in a collaboration interface e.g. collaboration interface associated with at least a first user e.g. a moderator or any participant of the plurality of users. In some embodiments collaboration server identifies the user from the plurality of users based on an input on notification e.g. a drag and drop input discussed above received from the first user e.g. a moderator or any participant .

In some embodiments the contextual information includes a description of the call such as the purpose of the call is to discuss a marketing idea and method includes obtaining for instance by collaboration server the contextual information based on at least one of information received from a caller who made the call e.g. the user input during the IVR process and prior communication related to the caller e.g. emails text messages and phone call notes related to the caller .

In some embodiments the information regarding the plurality of users includes availability data of the plurality of users and method includes identifying the user based on the availability of the plurality of users. In other embodiments the input on notification includes a drag and drop input received within collaboration interface which drags notification reflecting the call and drops notification onto an icon e.g. icon displayed in collaboration interface that represents a target user to receive the call. Identifying the user includes selecting by collaboration server the target user of the drag and drop input as the user to receive the call.

In some embodiments method also includes placing by collaboration server the call in a queue of calls and identifying by collaboration server the user to receive the call based on the availability date of the plurality of users. For example collaboration server determines which participant is currently available or will be available in next 1 minute 2 minutes etc. and assigns one or more calls to the participant. In some embodiments when collaboration server determines that a participant is now available collaboration server enables that participant to answer a call from queue of calls. Collaboration server updates queue to remove a call when the call is answered by a participant.

In some embodiments collaboration system includes more than one collaboration sessions. Method includes determining by collaboration server a target collaboration session to direct the call based on the contextual information regarding the call and characteristics associated with the collaboration sessions. For example the characteristics associated with a collaboration session include the subject of discussion a description of the collaboration session and or profile information of the participants of the collaboration session. The subject of discussion can be for example marketing issues legal issues sales issues customer service issues. The description of the collaboration session can include the subject of discussion. The description may be for example Collaboration Session for Marketing Department Collaboration Session for Legal Team etc. In some embodiments the descriptions include a description of a functionality of a group of participants such as Legal Department Marketing Department etc. In some embodiments collaboration server compares the subjects of discussion of the collaboration sessions or descriptions of the collaboration sessions with the contextual information regarding the call to identify a collaboration session to receive the call. For example when the contextual information indicates that the purpose of the call is to discuss a marketing idea collaboration server identifies a collaboration session that is discussing marketing issues as the target collaboration session and directs the call to the identified collaboration session. As another example collaboration server determines from the user profile that at least some participants of a collaboration session are from the marketing department and directs the call to that collaboration session.

In some embodiments each collaboration session is associated with a telephone number. Method includes comparing the telephone numbers associated with the collaboration sessions with a telephone number specified or dialed in the call. When collaboration server finds a match between the telephone number dialed and a telephone number of a collaboration session collaboration server directs the call to that collaboration session.

In some embodiments collaboration server uses the contextual information to automatically determine or identify a specific user or participant of the identified collaboration session as a recipient of the call. For example collaboration server compares keyword marketing included in the contextual information and information regarding the participants e.g. a function within an organization a job title technical expertise education language and prior communication with the caller etc. to identify a match. Collaboration server identifies a participant as the recipient of the call and directs the call to the participant. Collaboration server enables display of a notification regarding the call e.g. a notification similar to notification within a collaboration interface for the collaboration session that is displayed on a user device associated with the identified participant. The notification enables the user to provide input to the user device to instruct the user device to handle the call within the collaboration session e.g. within collaboration interface .

In some embodiments the caller indicates that the call is of private or public nature. The caller specifies that a call is a private or public in the input provided in the IVR process or in the email and or text message sent to collaboration server before after or during the time the call is initiated. When a call is specified as a private call notification is not displayed on the user devices of all of the participants. The notification is displayed only on a user device of a selected participant such as a moderator or an intended callee e.g. a participant of the collaboration session .

In the preceding description various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the disclosure. The disclosure and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

For example advantageous results still could be achieved if steps of the disclosed techniques were performed in a different order or if components in the disclosed systems were combined in a different manner or replaced or supplemented by other components. Therefore it is intended that the disclosed embodiments and examples be considered as examples only.

