---

title: Sports scorekeeping system with integrated scoreboard and automatic entertainment system
abstract: An on-demand sports video streaming service generates live broadcasts of sporting events with an automated video capture system. Multiple cameras automatically which track game play are controlled to create a combined output. Game event data, including scoreboard information, audible queues or visual queues are implemented to assist in directing and controlling video content and to provide scoring, timing or player information into the video output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09555310&OS=09555310&RS=09555310
owner: Maxx Holdings, Inc.
number: 09555310
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20150901
---
The present invention is a Continuation In Part of PCT US2009 056805 filed on Sep. 25 2009 entitled SESSION AUTOMATED RECORDING TOGETHER WITH RULES BASED INDEXING ANALYSIS AND EXPRESSION OF CONTENT herein also referred to as SARTRIA of which the present application claims priority. Note that the above application claimed the priority of U.S. 61 192 034 a provisional application filed on Sep. 15 2008 of the same title. 

The present invention is also related to the prior inventions U.S. Pat. No. 6 567 116 entitled MULTIPLE OBJECT TRACKING SYSTEM and U.S. Pat. No. 7 483 049 entitled OPTIMIZATIONS FOR LIVE EVENT REAL TIME 3D OBJECT TRACKING.

The present invention relates to systems for automatically controlling a sports scoreboard music and announcement systems video displays scoring indication lamps primary arena lighting systems laser show and secondary lighting systems dynamic advertising display boards and other event entertainment devices.

There are a large number of sporting fields where scoreboards are used to display official game information to the teams and spectators such as in the sports of ice hockey football basketball baseball and others. Especially when these fields are used for amateur sports the scoreboards carry basic information such as the official game time period of play and team scores. There are several manufacturers of these types of amateur sport scoreboards most notably Daktronics Inc. the largest supplier to the youth market.

Scoreboard systems from manufacturers such as Daktronics typically include at least two parts the scoreboard itself as well as a console for remotely operating the scoreboard. The typical console has a keypad interface for the console operator an internal processor for translating the operator s indications into scoreboard changes and one or more output ports for transmitting these changes in some format to one or more scoreboards. There are several problems with this overall arrangement including the lack of interface with a third party system scorekeeping system where such a system might be used for creating content regarding the sporting event itself.

In prior applications especially including the prior related SARTRIA application the present inventors taught several aspects of such content generating systems mostly using the example of ice hockey. The types of content created include recorded video and audio along with official boxscore information. The present inventors have also taught several variations of using the same recorded video captured as content to support tracking of the players and game objects via image analysis. When synchronized and cross indexed the video audio boxscore and tracking data have significantly greater use and value.

Such systems for creating content as taught by the present inventors still require that an individual operate the game scoreboard. Hence even though these systems gather the official game scoring information or box score they don t also operate the scoreboard. The main reason for this is that manufacturers such as Daktronics tend to keep their scoreboard console closed not allowing for third part equipment to be electronically interfaced.

What is needed is a universal scoreboard interface module by which any or most manufacture s scoreboard consoles or scoreboards can be interfaced so that any third party content generation system may directly control the scoreboard thus removing the need for the scoreboard console operator.

In the present invention two variations are taught of a first embodiment one for interfacing directly to the console simulating the use of the keyboard by a console operator and the second for interfacing directly to the scoreboard simulating the control signals sent by the console. Regardless of the interface point the present invention first comprises a training mode whereby an operator trains the interface device regarding the appropriate signals for mimicking either the keyboard signals input to the console or the resulting control signals sent to the scoreboard by the console. This training may either be fully automatic or simply the recording of appropriate signals to be analyzed by a programmer of the interface device. Once analyzed the programmer will then establish the necessary data within the interface device so that in its live operation it will send identical signals to either the manufacturer s console thus mimicking the keypad entries or to the manufacturer s scoreboard itself thus mimicking the console. 

Once trained the interface module may then be connected to a third party scorekeeping system which in turn then supplies the necessary high level commands such as set clock to 99 99 start clock stop clock enter penalty . . . etc. as the sporting event is conducted. In this live mode for each supplied high level command the interface module then generates the equivalent keyboard signals for input to the console or resulting control signals for direct input to the scoreboard.

In a second alternate embodiment the universal scoreboard interface does not require a training mode and simply connects directly to the scoreboard thus completely by passing the manufacturer s console. In this case the third party scorekeeping system maintains an internal virtual scoreboard which the interface device monitors for output to the scoreboard. As will be shown the ideal output format conforms to the requirements of the scoreboard and at least for manufacturer s such as Daktronics therefore includes signals for setting the individual cell segment values for each displayed character on the scoreboard.

Using either variation of the universal scoreboard interface eliminates the need to operate the scoreboard manufacturer s console which at the youth sports level often means the reduction of at least one job note that a person is still required to operate the third party scorekeeping console. The present inventors will herein teach an additional preferred embodiment to scorekeeping system that combines the use of a performance content generation system to ultimately also eliminate this need for an operator of the third party scorekeeping console. As will be shown using the aforementioned universal scoreboard interface the main functions of a scorekeeping console are to set reset start and stop the official clock and to enter the remaining official scorekeeping information which in ice hockey for example includes data captured while the game is in progress shot counts by team and data captured while the game is halted such as goals and penalties. The only remaining information entered by the scorekeeper is non official and therefore to some extent optional.

In this scorekeeperless configuration of the scorekeeping system the official clock is maintained by a combination of a game official and the performance content generation system which itself includes some form of an object tracking system. While other technologies such as RF IR UWB GPS etc. may be used for tracking the performance activities and still accomplish the herein taught improvements the present inventors prefer and depict a camera based object tracking system for following the player referee and game object movements. As will be shown using the object tracking system the moment of puck drop is automatically detectable for starting the clock and a game official can at least use a wireless clicker instead of a whistle to stop play and the clock. It will also be shown that once the official presses the stop play clicker button the system can automatically generate the customary whistle sound for notifying the players team benches and fans. Those familiar with referee whistle technology will understand that variations are possible since technology already exists for automatically detecting the whistle s sound waves.

The present invention will then also teach that the scorekeepless system employs through the glass touch technology to face the game play halted data entry screen towards the game official. Doing this allows a referee to directly enter all official information such as goals and penalties as opposed to the traditional practice of speaking to the scorekeeper who then appropriately records the information either electronically or on paper. And finally at least for the sport of ice hockey the only other official information is the shot count by team that has at least two ways of being collected without requiring a scorekeeper present in the traditional scorekeeper s booth. The preferred method is to automatically track shots using the performance content generation system via its object tracking system techniques that are both well understood and in some sports such as soccer already implemented. The alternate technique is to allow an operator to use a wireless or internet linked portable tablet or similar device to indicate shot counts from any desired location e.g. from the stands. As will also be taught this operator can additionally use this remote data entry solution for optionally entering desirable non official game information e.g. player shifts hits face off locations etc. However most of this additional non official game information may also be automatically determined using a performance content generation system especially and preferably as taught by the present inventors in the prior SARTRIA application.

In addition to allowing a third party scorekeeping system to automatically and directly control a given manufacturer s scoreboard it is also desirable to automatically control other devices such as the music and announcement system video displays scoring indication lamps primary arena lighting systems laser show and secondary lighting systems as well as dynamic advertising display boards. In general the desired other devices to control are usable for enhancing the enjoyment of the performance spectators and as will be discussed in the conclusion of this application other types of entertainment devices exist and can also be automatically controlled using the herein taught system. What will be taught is the combining of the scorekeeping system and the performance content generation system for the enabling of an automatic entertainment system which then controls any number of connected entertainment devices such as listed above.

In the present inventors prior patents and applications there was taught the integration of a real time multiple object tracking system preferably based upon cameras and machine vision that was capable of capturing game video and audio player and referee movements wireless clicker signals as well as any and all other real time human or machine observations. In these applications a universal protocol was also taught for encoding any human or machine observation into marks of a given type with a specific time of observation and optionally carrying related data further describing the observation. In turn these observation marks where input into a session processor that had access to external rules where the rules directed how the incoming real time marks should potentially create start or stop individual events of a given type. These events then service as a session index back into all recorded continuous session content such video and audio.

It is now further herein taught that these same observation marks and events may be translated by the session processor into a real time data stream of automatic entertainment system device triggers. The actual triggers output by the session processor are first filtered or limited based upon the specific types of entertainment devices to be commanded e.g. a music system announcement system video display etc. The present inventors prefer that these triggers as output by the session processor are accepted by a distinct automatic entertainment system processor that is responsible for interfacing directly with any and all third party devices. For each device type the entertainment processor will have access to a pre known set of external trigger rules that can be used to translate the incoming session content i.e. detected marks and events into a set of outgoing universal action commands for each given device type. These universal action commands are then accepted by individual device wrappers that preform a final translation of the universal command into one or more custom application programming interface API sequences that are pre established to cause specific resulting actions by the unique physical device.

The present inventors prefer this distinct multi step translation from agnostic session content into streams of session triggers filtered by entertainment device type which in turn are convertible into universal action commands for the given device type via a set of external trigger rules which are then finally translated into custom API sequences for driving individual unique third party entertainment devices. This combination of double abstraction and objectification allows the connection chain from the session processor entertainment system and unique entertainment devices to remain loosely connected and therefore both open and easily distributable.

Within the forthcoming specification the present inventors will provide examples of specific game observations along with the resulting performance activity event create start stop transitions and how these transitions appropriately and ultimately may be used to control various entertainment device actions such as starting and stopping music making announcements showing video replays turning on goal lamps dimming arena lights etc.

The present inventors will also review some relevant teachings of the prior SARTRIA application for a SESSION AUTOMATED RECORDING TOGETHER WITH RULES BASED INDEXING ANALYSIS AND EXPRESSION OF CONTENT. During this review of the prior taught apparatus and methods of a session processor the present inventors will show that these same teachings with one preferred modification are also applicable and preferred for the implementation of the herein specified automatic entertainment system processor.

Therefore given the state of the art in computer systems FPGAs microcontrollers wireless clicker technology through the glass touch panels data transmission protocols and object tracking systems it is possible to create the preferred system for automatically interfacing a third party content generation system that at least also accepts the official scorekeeping data with any or most existing scoreboard systems and that this system can be further enhanced to eliminate the need for a scorekeeper.

Given the state of the art in real time sports tracking content capture and performance analysis systems it is also possible to create the preferred sports entertainment system for automatically interfacing to one or more entertainment devices the control of which is ultimately linked to the game activities measured by the tracking system via external rules that may be altered without needing to change the entertainment system itself.

Therefore the objects and advantages of the present invention include providing a universal interface module that can be connected to a scoreboard console either at the juncture between the console s keyboard and its internal processor or between its internal processor and the scoreboard itself via the console s output port. This interface module provides both training and live modes. In the training mode the module is capable of recording various signals that are either supplied by the keyboard to the console or by the console to the scoreboard representing the entire range of possible low level commands performed by the manufacturer s scoreboard console. In the live mode the module is capable of receiving high level commands from a third party scorekeeping console which are then translated into the equivalent low level commands and transmitted either to the scoreboard console via the keyboard as if they were being directly entered by the console operator or transmitted to the scoreboard as if they were being generated by the manufacturer s console.

It is still a further object and advantage of the present system that this interface module be alternately cable of connecting to a third party scorekeeping console to a scoreboard without requiring a training mode. In this case the scorekeeping console maintains an internal virtual scoreboard that the interface module translates into the necessary signals for updating the real scoreboard.

Another object and advantage of the present system is to provide for a scorekeeping system that allows the game officials in combination with a performance content generation system that comprises an object tracking system to perform all official scorekeeping tasks including at least the operation of the game clock and the entry of shots goals and penalties information thus providing the option of eliminating the traditional scorekeeper.

The objects and advantages of the present invention further include providing apparatus and data translations methods for receiving human and machine observations from the combination of a scorekeeping system and a performance content generation system as related at least to a sports performances such as a game and then automatically determining when and which connected entertainment devices should be commanded to take which specific actions where the entertainment devices at least include music and announcement systems video displays scoring indication lamps primary arena lighting systems laser show and secondary lighting systems as well as dynamic advertising display boards.

And finally the objects and advantages of the present invention include the implementation of the preferred automatic entertainment processor using the prior taught session processor and its various features.

As will be apparent to those familiar with the various marketplaces and technologies discussed herein portions of the present invention are useful individually or in lesser combinations than the entire scope of the aforementioned objects and advantages. Furthermore while the apparatus and methods are exemplified with respect to the sport of ice hockey as will be obvious to the skilled reader there are no restrictions on the application of the present teachings whether to other sports music theatre education security business etc. and in general to any ongoing measurable activities real virtual abstract animate or inanimate without limitation. The lack of a need or use in other such applications for a scorekeeping system does not reduce the benefits provided by a using a performance content generation system in combination with an automatic entertainment system.

Still further objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from a consideration of the drawings and ensuing description.

The following are all taken directly from the present inventor s prior related application entitled SESSION AUTOMATED RECORDING TOGETHER WITH RULES BASED INDEXING ANALYSIS AND EXPRESSION OF CONTENT SARTRIA with one new teaching shown in . Collectively these figures will show that the prior taught and herein depicted session processor may alternately or additionally be used as the herein depicted automatic entertainment system processor.

Referring to Prior Art there is depicted the current state of the art sports scorekeeping system as it applies to youth ice hockey. As will be understood by those familiar with sports in general the arrangements and depictions in and therefore carried into the remaining figures are directly applicable with minor variations to at least all teams sports especially those that include a scoreboard display. Therefore while the present invention is described in relation to the sport of ice hockey this choice of exemplification should not be construed as a limitation. As will be understood by those skilled in the various arts supporting the herein teachings the present embodiments as they apply to the integrated scoreboard have applicability to sports in general and also have uses beyond sports such as in any setting including a performance an audience and an electronic display. Likewise the herein teachings as they apply to any one or more aspects of the automatic entertainment system also apply to sports in general as well as any setting including activities where the people conducting the activities and or watching the activities desire to receive the types of information so provided.

Still referring to the arrangement depicted includes a performance area where players such as interact while game officials such as who make judgments and have effect over the starting and stopping of game play. Also shown is a scoreboard used to post information regarding the performance along with a scoreboard console typically provided by the scoreboard manufacturer to control the displayed values data use on the scoreboard herein referred to as job . Note that example scoreboard and console manufacturers would include Daktronics Fair play Varsity Scoreboards and several others. While most youth sporting events still keep the official box score on paper as the game is played the current state of the art includes electronic scorekeeping systems that are typically provided by some third party manufacturer e.g. Pointstreak. Scorekeeping systems such as provided by Pointstreak do not integrate with the manufacturer s console or scoreboard either for the purposes of getting or giving information but rather serve to record official box score information in real time herein referred to as job which is then also ideally posted to one or more web sites on the internet data use . Altogether the combination of performance area console scoreboard and scorekeeping console form official scorekeeping system .

Also depicted in is video camera tripod combination operated manually as job for the recording of the game activities. Service providers such as Fast Hockey or B2TV provide web boxes which can directly accept the video stream from camera for streaming onto the internet data use . Note that these service providers and their web boxes only provide manually controlled video and do not also interact with the scorekeeping console or the scoreboard and its console such as would be necessary for obtaining useful game time and box score information for graphically overlaying onto the video. A separate job is also shown where an operator using video editing workstation creates a video index for the video and otherwise performs clipping and assembly as will be understood by those familiar with sports editing software such as provided by XOS Tech StevaSports Gamebreaker and many others. The data created by this job is typically made available to the team for group presentations data use or provided over the web for general public viewing data use . Altogether the combination of camera tripod combination web box and video editing workstation form performance content generation system .

And finally also depicted in is a list of the other Manual Jobs Not Depicted in addition to Jobs through Job that might be performed at either a youth sporting event such as Job to make official scorekeeping announcements and operate the music system or at a professional event such as Job to operate a video display for example to show instant replays of game action Job to operate a goal lamp as is typical in ice hockey to indicate that either a home or away goal was scored Job to dim venue lighting and or generate a laser light show to build crowd excitement and Job for controlling the content and effects used by a dynamic advertising system all of which will be discussed in more detail with respect to upcoming . 

Referring next to Prior Art the current state of the art arrangements first depicted in are now augmented to include the improvements already taught by the present inventor in past related patents and pending applications. Specifically the official scorekeeping system of has been upgraded to system in and now includes scoreboard differentiator for remotely capturing the face of scoreboard with a video camera whereupon the images are then analyzed differentiated in real time in order to ascertain the Data C Use therein contained. Hence the data entered via scoreboard controlling console as Job is transmitted for display on scoreboard at least including the state of the game clock Data C. By using a camera to remotely detect the current state of scoreboard the scoreboard differentiator at least informs the upgraded third party scorekeeping console of the changes in game state from in play to out of play which in turn are useful for automatically alternating the data entry screens used to prompt the operator performing the scorekeeping Job . Many other important functions for this Use Data C were also prior taught such as always knowing the current period and game time which is critical for the creation of a real time game index. Note that in the prior related applications a direct link was also discussed whereby the scorekeeping system could receive digital information as generated by the scoreboard console equivalent fully or in part to that information determined remotely by differentiator via scoreboard . The advantages of using the remote differentiator are its remote aspect as well as its inherent independence from the scoreboard manufacturer s system all of which was fully discussed in the prior applications and will be well understood by a careful reading of those teachings. 

Still referring to and also as already taught in the present inventor s related applications camera and tripod combination has been replaced by camera and electromechanical pan tilt device with controller while web box for converting video has been replaced by compressor . Furthermore performance area is now shown to be in the constant view of object tracking system that employs multiple fixed cameras with associated machine vision to follow the activities of players such as and game officials such as . These tracked activity motions are then preferably passed to performance differentiator that is responsible for determining when selected activities exceed one or more threshold conditions thus resulting in the issuing of machine observations as timeline marks with related data. Such observations might include shift change zone change shot taken etc. Also fully taught in prior issued patents from the present inventor is that the activity object motion information generated by the object tracking system may be used in real time to operate the pan tilt and or zoom aspects of any one or more side view perspective cameras such as thus eliminating Job of operating the camera and tripod 

Upgraded scorekeeping console of is also now capable of issuing human observations as made by the scorekeeper performing Job in the same prior taught and preferred but not necessary mark plus related data protocol for packaging machine observations such as those generated by performance differentiator . Human observations made by the scorekeeper in combination with the scoreboard differentiator and thus technically a machine observation might include clock started hit shot taken clock stopped goal scored etc. The real time observation streams of and are then preferably made available to a session processor where processor uses pre established external rules Sr to control the translation of all observation streams such as and into a session index and other content for storage in session content database . As previously mentioned all of this has been taught in detail by the present inventors in prior related applications including that this translation of the human and machine observation marks into performance events forms a natural session index which in turn is relatable in real time to all captured video and audio content coming from either the object tracking system s fixed cameras or the automated cameras 

In summary current state of the art official scorekeeping system and performance content generation system depicted in have now been upgraded to scorekeeping system and content generation system using the teachings of the present inventor from prior related applications. This combination of official scorekeeping system and performance content generation system acts to eliminate the need for the video editing workstation and its operator performing Job . Thus the arrangement of current state of the art devices shown in are seen to require at least 4 operators performing Job to operate the scoreboard and clock forming Data C Job to operate the third party scorekeeping device forming Data S Job to operate the camera and tripod combination forming Data V and Job to operate the video editing workstation forming Data I. As shown in by employing the enhancements prior taught by the present inventors both Jobs and can be fully automated thus greatly enhancing at least Uses and .

Still referring to at least video with optionally captured audio content Data V and session index content Data I are output to session content database . Preferably also output to database are codifications of scorekeeping box score Data S and scorekeeper observation Data the codification by session processor of which was a subject of prior related applications and not necessary for the novel teachings of the present invention. Also depicted in is session content publishing center that either automatically or with input from operators or purchasers distributes any and all session content such as Data V I C and S either locally or remotely altogether referred to as session content publishing system . 

Referring next to the new teachings of the present invention begin with the addition the first embodiment of a universal scoreboard interface module to the official scorekeeping system of . The overall purpose of this interface is to shift the control of the scoreboard from the manufacturer s console to the third party scorekeeping console now upgraded to . In prior scorekeeping console of the device was simply used to record the box score and official scorekeeping information as communicated by the game officials to the console operator performing scorekeeping job . Console had no automatic interaction with the scoreboard or its console . In scorekeeping console the scoreboard is still controlled by its console but it could at least assist in the scorekeeping job by remotely transmitting data to scorekeeping console via the scoreboard differentiator . As was previously mentioned the present inventors have also anticipated in prior applications and herein that manufacturer s console could provide via direct connection i.e. not through the scoreboard at least the same information to scorekeeping console as determined by differentiator . The main point is that scorekeeping console is fundamentally different from is earlier versions because it receives and uses information generated by the manufacturer s scorekeeping system i.e. console in combination with scoreboard in a novel and beneficial way for the benefit of the scorekeeper.

Still referring to what is different about official scorekeeping system versus system portrayed in is that system uses scorekeeping console that is now driving the data displayed on scoreboard as opposed to responding to the data which was the case with scorekeeping console . As will be understood by those skilled in the art of scoreboard systems this is a fundamental shift that has significant benefits for the scorekeeper ultimately leading to the potential for shifting the main game time data entry to the game officials as will be discussed shortly in reference to upcoming . In order to accomplish this shift it is necessary to have an apparatus for connecting scorekeeping console to scoreboard either directly or through scoreboard console which is the purpose and one of the two main functions of universal scoreboard interface . As will be well understood by those familiar with hardware and computer systems the universal scoreboard interface could just as well be integrated into the scorekeeping console rather than being external to it. Thus the physical relationship between the scorekeeping console the universal interface and even the scoreboard is immaterial to the teachings herein and should not be construed as a limitation thereof. 

Regarding the functions of the first embodiment of interface there are two. The first is to connect the manufacturer s console to the scorekeeping console or its equivalent proxy such as a PC running the necessary training mode software. As will be discussed further in relation to this training mode connection is ideally made at either of two distinct junctures points A or B where A is the point inside scoreboard console between its keyboard and internal processor and B is the point outside console where it is connectable to the scoreboard . Regardless of the connection point A or B in this training mode what is most important is to operate manufacturer s console over a sufficiently exemplary set of its possible inputs via its keypad while

As will be understood by those familiar with such scorekeeping systems the keypad inputs and corresponding commands would typically be set main clock to 99 99 set home goal to 9 start clock stop clock set away penalty 1 to player 99 time 2 00 etc. In training mode as the operator runs through this sufficient set of exemplary commands the universal scoreboard interface transmits the signals it receives within or from the manufacturer s console to the scorekeeping console or its proxy. During this transmission it is further taught that the signals themselves will be converted from the original signal format used by manufacturer s console into a digital signal format more readily useful to a typical PC. For instance via juncture B the manufacturer s console is typically using a current loop with embedded digital data as a transmission signal to scoreboard whereas the ideal input to the scorekeeping console PC is serial data all of which will be well understood by those familiar with both electrical engineering in general and these manufacturer s scorekeeping systems in particular. These teachings will also be reviewed in greater detail with respect to upcoming

In reference to and training mode what is currently most important is to understand that the function of the first embodiment of a universal scoreboard interface is to receive output signals from the manufacturer s console in its native electrical format and then to translate this same signal into preferably a serial data format for transmission to a typical PC without otherwise disturbing the underlying typically digitally encoded information. It is also important to understand that the method of operation of the universal scoreboard interface in training mode is to receive translate and transmit each specific set of output signals in distinct relation to specific corresponding sets of exemplary keypad inputs to manufacturer s console . As will be understood by those skilled in software and information systems in its training mode the universal scoreboard interface is acting as a means for mapping the distinct signal sets issued by the manufacturer s console from either juncture A or B resulting from the exemplary job keypad entries with the corresponding functions being accomplished by those same entries e.g. start clock increment home goal count. 

Still referring to once the third party scorekeeping console has been sufficiently trained regarding the exact manufacturer s console signals generated at either juncture A or B to effect the exemplary scoreboard changes then the universal scoreboard interface may be used in somewhat of a reverse manner during live mode. In live mode the interface connects the scorekeeping console back through juncture A or B to the scoreboard . As was prior discussed the scorekeeping console is now fundamentally different in that it is the source of all official scorekeeping information as opposed to simply recording it most especially including the game clock state which used to be maintained in the scoreboard manufacturer s console . As the source of information while this information changes e.g. a goal is scored a penalty transpires the game starts and stops etc. it is necessary that the scorekeeper s console transmit this information to the scoreboard directly through juncture B or indirectly through juncture A within the scoreboard console in a signal format exactly similar to the scoreboard manufacturer s console thus mimicking console and accomplishing use of at least the clock data as well as some of the scoresheet data. Again more details for this teaching will be provided in relation to upcoming and then also for a second embodiment in and finally the actual circuit board layout for implementing the second embodiment will be shown in . 

As will also be understood by those skilled in both electrical engineering and in device manufacturing there are significant tradeoffs for using juncture A versus B. For instance while the keypad signals juncture A tend to be less sophisticated to mimic as opposed to the scoreboard signals juncture B directly sent from the scoreboard console to the scoreboard physically connecting the universal interface to the portion of the scoreboard console that accepts its keypad signals requires opening the console and making a separate internal connection. Based at least upon the compactness of the scoreboard console s internal design this can be problematic. In practice there also tends to be a greater variation in the way keypads are internally connected to the console s main motherboard than there are variations between the way any given console connects from its external port to a input port on the matching scoreboard . This is especially true within a single manufacture s full line of scoreboard s and their accompanying console s that all tend to transmit the same signal format between each other via external connections while the console s themselves have distinctly different keypads different internal console designs and different internal connectors between their keypads and their console motherboards. Thus regarding the first embodiment of the universal interface it is preferred that the signals learned in training mode and mimicked in live mode are those normally output by the scorekeeper s console for direct input to their scoreboard as essentially depicted by the training and live mode signal path arrangements shown in . 

However as will be discussed in detail with relation to it is possible to implement a second embodiment of the universal scoreboard interface that still and only interfaces through juncture B but no longer requires a separate training mode. It is this embodiment that the present inventors have implemented for which the actual circuit layout is shown in

As will be appreciated by those familiar with scorekeeping systems in general the major benefit of using the official scorekeeping system of rather than systems or is that the job of operating the manufacturer s console during a live game has been eliminated.

Referring next to official scorekeeping system has now been further upgraded to system where the job of entering clock and official scorekeeping data has been shifted from the scorekeeper to the game official in combination with the object tracking system . To accomplish this new preferred functionality the third party scorekeeping system is now also upgraded to such that it includes a wired connection to through the glass touch interface and a wireless connection to both referee clicker and optional game observation entry device . Note that like scorekeeping device of upgraded device also includes a critical connection to performance differentiator .

Still referring to and specifically to how the various new parts of scorekeeping system work together to control the scoreboard there are two key functions to consider. First how does the system start and stop the scoreboard clock without a scorekeeper effectively controlling the scoreboard via the scorekeeping console Within ice hockey the clock is started under a strict set of rules including 

The data states supporting rules and are easily known to the system by scorekeeping console as would be obvious. As will be understood by those skilled in the art of machine vision systems the present inventors prior art teachings for a camera based object tracking system provide at least one sufficient way of detecting the data states supporting rules and . It is not the purpose of the present invention to teach the necessary image analysis algorithms for determining current object i.e. player and puck locations and then subsequent object movement as the face off begins especially since the underlying algorithms are already fairly well understood in the art. What is important is that this data is collected by the object tracking system and ultimately passed to the scorekeeping console . Note that there is also no restriction for the purposes of the present invention that the object tracking system be implemented with cameras and machine vision this is only the present inventor s preference. For instance as discussed in prior applications use of RF or IR systems is also acceptable for tracking at least 2D player and puck locations the location of which themselves are sufficient for evaluating rules and . Furthermore for the purposes of the present invention it is not a requirement that the object tracking system include a separate performance differentiator . The system works equally well if the object tracking system provides the required data directly to the scorekeeping console which does its own differentiation or includes an embedded differentiator all as will be well understood by those familiar with various software systems and architectures. 

Still referring to after the system uses performance content generation system to determine the puck drop game state transition the appropriate observation mark or some equivalent is transmitted to scorekeeping console that in turn initiates its own internal game clock. As this virtual clock is initiated its changing information is automatically conveyed through the universal scoreboard interface to the scoreboard . It is noted that typically the scoreboard itself does not include an internal clock that is turned on and off but rather is simply used to display the cell values of the official clock traditionally maintained in the manufacturer s console and now maintained in the scorekeeper s console 

As will be obvious to those skilled in the various sports only ice hockey starts its official scoreboard clock based upon the dropping of a puck. Some sports like baseball don t have an official clock in the same sense of limiting the overall time of play. Other sports such as basketball start the clock when their game object i.e. the basketball is thrown in the air by the game official while in still other sports like football the clock is started when the game official blows their whistle. For the purposes of the present invention the particular method is immaterial. Again what is important is that this start clock state is detected preferably by direct machine observation or some other object tracking technology and or by allowing the game official to so indicate using a wireless clicker or some equivalent such as blowing a whistle to activate either an airflow detector or a sound receiver both methods of which have been taught in the prior art. 

Once the game clock is started and still referring to in the sport of ice hockey and several others the clock is stopped when the game official blows his whistle. While the present inventor has already taught a whistle capable of detecting air flow through its inner chamber as a means of determining the point of whistle blowing and other inventors have taught systems for detecting the sound created by the whistle blowing it is herein preferred that the game officials be given wireless clickers . Regardless of the detection apparatus and method once the game official indicates that the clock should be stopped at least using the present wireless clicker the scorekeeping console receives this stop clock signal via its wireless receiver. Similar to the processing of the clock start signal once received console stops its internal virtual clock which is then automatically reflected on scoreboard via interface . The present inventors also make note that the sound of the whistle is an important audible cue not just to the scoreboard console operator to stop the clock but also to the players to stop their activities. For this reason the present herein teach that the integrated automatic entertainment system to be discussed in relation to upcoming and which among other things controls the venue sound system is to be signaled to generate a whistle like or equivalently recognizable stop play sound.

While the scorekeeping system of is shown to be able to start and stop the game clock without the need of a scorekeeper the next data that must be addressed to fully eliminate this same scorekeeper at least includes the official entry of goals and penalties. While the current practice in ice hockey is that the game official skates over to the scorekeeper and verbally indicates this information for data entry the present inventors prefer allowing the game official to enter this information by themselves. Past inventors have taught a small data entry pad worn by the referee around their wrist or forearm with a wireless connection to the scorekeeping console. While this solution is perfectly acceptable for the purposes of combining with the present invention s start stop detection i.e. to eliminate the need of a separate scorekeeper the present inventors prefer not requiring the referees to wear any equipment that may hurt them or get damaged in the case of a fall.

There are presently several variations in the marketplace of a new technology branded as though the glass touch input screens such as those provided by PointandPress VisualPlanet iWindow and others. The actual manufacturer or underlying technology is not important to the present invention. What is important is that using any of these devices the referee may enter official game information directly without the need for a separate scorekeeper. Especially for the unique sport of ice hockey that surrounds its performance area with boards and glass any of the through the glass input screens would therefore be mounted on the outside of the glass opposing both the game official and more importantly the game action. Furthermore all of these devices have solutions that work through the thicker glass used in ice hockey and all can produce screens of sufficient size to make entering the limited information of goals and penalties simple for the official . As will be understood by those familiar with software systems what is being accomplished is that the data entry screens typically used by the scorekeeper via console are now be presented to the game official via the through the glass mounted data entry screen. Once the official Data S is entered it is then used by scorekeeping console to update its internal virtual scoreboard at which point the same Data S is output to scoreboard via universal interface also referred to as use . Scorekeeping console further transmits this same official Data S as observation marks or some equivalent to session processor as depicted in . 

As will be obvious to those skilled in the sport of ice hockey there is some minor additional scorekeeping data beyond goal entry and penalty entry that also needs to be taken care of by the game official using this preferred approach. This Data S includes penalty shots overtime periods and shootouts but does not need to include the entry of rosters team names and dates. This later set of information will be pre known to the scorekeeping system via its integration with a companion scheduling system all as taught by the present inventors in prior pending applications and not material to the present teachings. The present inventors also make note that the object tracking system and the performance differentiator will be able to assist the game official with some of the data entry at least including the jersey numbers and names of all current players by team on the ice thus making a short list to pick from when entering goals and penalties. Beyond this the present inventors also anticipate that the differentiator will be able to detect players entering the penalty box as well as players scoring goals and providing assists all of which can be used to simplify the required data entry. Regardless of the amount of assistance provided the present invention offers the opportunity of eliminating the now separate job of scorekeeping by both automatically detecting the clock start stop transition points as well as accepting scorekeeping data directly from the game official 

And finally still referring to in the lower left hand corner an operator is depicted using game observation entry device to perform new optional Job . As will be understood by those familiar with sports there is a significant amount of additional non official information that is still very desirable to collect in real time synchronization with all other clock and scorekeeping data. For ice hockey these other observations might include hits icing off sides highlights etc. What is preferred by the present inventors is that this information may be entered remotely by virtually any observer using some networked device ranging from a tablet PC connected via a private local wireless network to a cell phone connected via an internet web page. Regardless of the device used or method of connection what is herein taught is that the non official yet important other observations Data are optionally enterable by one or more observers remotely from the scorer s booth and distinctly from the clock Data C and scorekeeping Data S . These devices implementing also preferably but not necessarily provide their information in the standard observation mark protocol used by all other machine or human observation collecting devices within the present system.

As will be well understood by those familiar with software systems the novel teaching of the present invention should not be limited by the choice of information exchange formats or data transport mechanisms between the various system parts. In prior applications the present inventors taught and claim the benefits of establishing a universal protocol and methodology for collecting human and machine observations from a disparate range of devices to be collectively processed by a session processor. Such a universal approach allows for significant scaling of data collection devices as the marketplace adopts a single standard for session content codification. This prior taught protocol extended beyond the observation marks to include their processing into session events under the control of externally provided rules. While these prior teachings of marks events and rules are incorporated in the present specification and especially in relation to they are not necessary for the herein taught and claimed novel apparatus and methods and should not be taken as limitations.

Referring next to the entire combination of preferred official scorekeeping system performance content generation system and content publishing system is depicted in together as a single system without any additional new teachings.

Referring next to there are shown systems and exactly the same as in with the addition of automatic entertainment system . Similar to content publishing center entertainment system processor is driven in real time by session content database to be discussed in greater detail with respect to . Similar to session processor entertainment processor employs external rules to govern its automatic functions to be discussed in greater detail with respect to

Still referring to the purpose of the automatic entertainment system is to provide the other manual jobs not depicted as shown in to a sporting venue in general and in this example an ice hockey facility. In its most abstracted view entertainment system is responsible for either directly outputting portions of session content via one or more devices where this output is typically audible or visual or effecting environmental changes in response to this same content . In order to replicate the current manual jobs shown in the entertainment devices taught in the present invention include 

What is most important about automatic entertainment system for most sporting applications is not any one of these devices but rather the overall combination of such devices with at least an official scorekeeping system or in combination with a content generation system or . Note that it is not necessary to have an associated content publishing system to apply the teachings of the present invention regarding entertainment system . Furthermore the present inventors anticipate that additional devices might be desirable for control by the entertainment system especially for other sports and other non sport applications all as will be obvious to a skilled software systems engineer since an important novel aspect of system is its universality and open protocols. Examples of other possible entertainment devices include a fogger for creating fog over and around the performance area or multi color LED lighting for both casting white light during normal performance activity and switching to colored lighting at appropriate non activity times. It is also noted that for some sports and other types of non sporting events where a scoreboard is not used or desirable the present teachings for using some implementation of a performance content generation system ideally including some form of object tracking for creating machine observations and optionally using human observers on remote data entry devices for creating human observations are still considered within the scope of the present invention.

Still referring to the following list is provided of exemplary devices found in the marketplace today that could serve the herein taught purposes as entertainment devices 

The aforementioned devices are exemplary for providing significant entertainment effects especially for the example sport of ice hockey. Many or all of these devices can have the same similar or different uses for either other sports or other types of events such as but not limited to theatre concerts assemblies conventions corporate presentations entertainment parks etc. Conversely other similar products could be used to obtain the same features or sufficient features.

What is most important is the teaching of a performance area where participant actions are monitored for either human and or machine observations the observations respectively of which are then combinable into content . Where content then serves as input to an automatic entertainment system that operates in real time to translate this input into distinct electronic commands for controlling the operation of one or more entertainment devices such as but not limited to J J J J and . What is further preferred but not necessary is that the translation of human and machine observations respectively are translated into content via external rules by a therefore programmable session processor . What is also further preferred but not necessary and to be discussed in detail with respect to upcoming is that the translation of the content into distinct electronic commands for controlling the operations of an eternal device is also effected by the automatic entertainment system under the control of external rules therefore also making system programmable similar to session processor .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art of software systems and familiar with entertainment settings many other devices may be desirable for use with automatic entertainment system . Therefore while the use of the present exemplary devices J J Jand J are specifically claimed herein they are not to be construed as limiting the present invention. For instance other devices are conceivable such as using a fog machine that is used to create instant fog effects especially in the performance area . Again what is most important is that any device capable of receiving real time electronic commands for at least one of its actions can be used by the present invention s entertainment system to execute those actions in response to the observed detected sensed and otherwise known activities of the participants in a performance.

Referring next to there is shown a mid level block diagram of the universal scoreboard interface as it interconnects with the scoreboard console the scoreboard and the scorekeeper s console or all of which was included in official scorekeeping system as first taught in relation to . Also shown in is the prior art teaching of the present inventors regarding scoreboard differentiator as it remotely detects face changes on scoreboard for input into scorekeeper s console all of which was first depicted in relation to . Briefly regarding scoreboard differentiator its minimal purpose is to ascertain the official time of game and whether the game clock is running or stopped. As fully discussed in the prior SARTRIA application this information is of significant value for forming the session index Data I related to all other session content including the video and the box score. Furthermore also as prior taught the current states of the game clock i.e. running or stopped are important for automatically alternating the input screens on scorekeeping console to stay relevant to the game situation. However there is no new teaching providing herein with respect to the differentiator and its presence is not required by design if the universal scoreboard interface is in use.

Still referring to manufacturer s scoreboard console is shown to internally comprise two main parts namely keyboard whose output connects to console processor input through juncture point A A. Console is also shown to have juncture point B B where the output of processor connects to the input of one or more scoreboard s . The present invention teaches that a first embodiment of the universal scoreboard interface is connectable to either console juncture A or B A or B respectively. In practice it is anticipated that the interface would be implemented as connectable to A or B rather than A and B. Regardless of the connection point A or B Interface should have a training mode in which the scoreboard console provides a series of outputs signals i.e. from point A or B in response to being operated over a series of fully representative input commands. Hence in training mode the console is operated normally via its keyboard through a set of game representative scoreboard commands such as 

While the above commands are typically all that are necessary for operating the scoreboard at a youth ice hockey game other sports will obviously have a different set of commands. What is important is that as the training operator presses various keys on console keypad to indicate a command where each command sequence typically ends in with the enter key the universal scoreboard interface either connected to juncture A or B A or B respectively intercepts either the keyboard s or the console processor s unique responses for transmittal to a Command Translation Program ctp running either on the universal interface the scorekeeper s console or even a separate PC. As will be understood by those skilled in software programming the purpose of the Command Translation Program ctp in training mode is to build a table associating a pre known command e.g. start clock with its equivalent A or B output signals. Preferably the Command Translation Program ctp stores this table of information in a database such as Scoreboard Console s Command to Signal Recordings database db. Thus after all representative commands have been entered they are essentially repeatable by way of Recordings database 

For instance and still referring to if the scorekeeping console is then connected in live mode to the universal scoreboard interface which is further connected to the original training capture point A or B A or B respectively console is then able to recreate valid scoreboard change commands which are oppositely translated by Command Translation Program ctp back into equivalent A or B juncture signals for direct input into console processor via juncture A or directly to scoreboard via juncture B respectively.

In practice the most difficult command to train and record is the resetting of the game clock to any and every possible time value. As will be understood by those familiar with ice hockey a typical amateur game period may be anywhere from 12 to 20 minutes long and includes at least 4 consecutive numerals such as tens of minutes TT minutes MM seconds SS and tenths of a second tt . In this case the Command Translation Program ctp is preferably operated in training mode to capture a representative set of clock resets covering the range of possible clock cell values. Since scoreboard console s uses the same signals to represent a given number i.e. 0 through 9 for any given cell i.e. TT MM SS or tt it is only necessary to have the Command Translation Program ctp record a single T M S or t cell cycling through each 0 to 9 value. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the Command Translation Program ctp can then automatically use the varying cell signals for each individual possible cell value to recreate the necessary signals for setting any cell and all cells to any combination of possible values.

As will be obvious to those skilled in the understanding of devices such as scoreboard console having to physically connect to a juncture point A requires that console be physically modified in some way or at the very least its exterior casing be opened to expose this connection point. However as will also be understood making this connection is possible and does have value as previously described herein. While a given manufacturer e.g. Daktronics typically has more than one physical console design even if each design implements a different external keyboard layout and or a different internal connector pin count for attaching to processor the basic electronic functionality is the same. Hence most keyboards work to short a pair of row column wires overlaying each other underneath a given external key and then most keyboards will connect to their console s processor using a ribbon cable. Thus providing the opportunity to create a juncture A connector that may support a variable number of wires depending upon the possible outputs for a given console s keyboard 

Now referring to and while juncture A A will provide the herein taught benefits the present inventors prefer to work with juncture B B. Using juncture B provides the immediate advantage of a simple to access external connection point that typically employs a universal connector such as tip and ring also called phono plug connector. This tip and ring connector is common to the telephone industry and supports the current loop signal format used by the typical manufacturer s console to drive the associated scoreboard . Thus it is relatively simple to interface with console processor juncture B for the purposes of recording the output signals in training mode as well as scoreboard juncture B for the purposes of outputting recorded signals in live mode.

Referring now specifically to rather than simply recording output signals from juncture B it is possible to by pass the training recording phase all together based upon a deeper understanding of the digital data embedded in the analog current loop signal output by the console processor to the scoreboard . As will be known by those familiar with scoreboard technology in general console embeds an additional digital signal that represents the various scoreboard cell segment values onto the carrier analog current loop signal. Hence the scoreboard itself is simply made up of various display cells where each display cell can form at least the numeral characters of 0 through 9 . By aligning several of these cells sequentially the scoreboard face represents different game information. For instance the game clock requires 8 sequential cells T T M M S S t t. Each individual cell in turn is typically represented as a set of segment values where the combination of segment values creates the various characters all of which is well known in the art of electronic displays and depicted in the lower right hand corner of as cell with individually addressable cell segments a b c d e f g. 

Hence the signals transmitted from console processor via juncture B B to scoreboard are actually digital commands to turn on an off individual cell segments a b c d e f g on the scoreboard face. The transmitted signals are not game commands such as start clock . Thus as will be understood by a careful reading of the present teachings using juncture B B as opposed to A A provides an additional opportunity to eliminate the necessity of a training mode. In the preferred implementation the scorekeeper s console and simply maintains an internal virtual scoreboard vsb of all of the current individual cell values to be displayed on the scoreboard . On a periodic cycle a Cell Display Program cdp reads all the cell values on the virtual scoreboard vsb and translates their current values into corresponding digital signals representing the various segments a b c d e f g necessary to create their current character e.g. 0 through 9 . These cell segment digital values are then overlaid by the universal scoreboard interface onto the carrier analog current loop signal for output to the scoreboard .

Note that if the Cell Display Program cdp is running on the scorekeeper s console or which is preferred then the universal scoreboard interface is simply acting to embed the digital signals representing the current set of cell segments into the analog current loop signal being output to scoreboard . As will be understood it is also possible that the Cell Display Program cdp is also run directly on universal interface in which case scorekeeper s console or must continually provide to interface data representing all current cell values on virtual scoreboard vsb to be displayed on the real scoreboard .

Referring next to there is shown a working digital circuit for implementing the universal scoreboard interface as described in relation to that was created by the present inventors for interfacing to a Daktronics Scoreboard normally controlled by a series console hence the preferred version that interfaces to juncture B B and transmits digital representations of each scoreboard cell s segment values a b c d e f g as carried by the analog current loop signal.

Referring next to there is shown session processor that was first taught by the present inventors in the prior SARTRIA application. The purpose of session processor is to accept and translate into a session index one or more human or machine observations respectively being made about a performance concurrent with the recording of that performance e.g. video and or audio. As prior taught the session processor performs its translation functions under the direction of external rules thus making it externally programmable and therefore also more universally adaptable to various types of performances sessions such as but not limited to sporting theatre and music Events. Furthermore all human and machine observations respectively are packaged into a common mark Sc m dataset that minimally defines the type of mark e.g. goal mark the session time of mark and any related data e.g. player assist assist etc. As the marks rn are received by the session processor and processed according to the external rules they may serve to create start or stop one or more associated types of events where lower case e vent refers to a limited duration activity detected within the performance e.g. scoring a goal vs. the entire performance itself which is commonly referred to uppercase E vent. It is the combination of these limited duration activities or events that together form a session index into the recording s of the performance all as previously taught.

Still referring to what is new is that the session processor now includes an additional AES output filter for controllably selecting and packaging a real time stream of event changes with related data and observation marks with related data to automatic entertainment system AES session content data based . As will be understood by a careful reading of the present inventor s prior SARTRIA application session processor may potentially receive a significant number and range of observation marks and . For instance for sporting Events the human observations may come from the game officials the scorekeeper through console or or a remote observer through observation entry device . Also at a sporting Event while the present inventors have taught and prefer the use of machine vision object tracking systems such as other tracking systems based upon RF IR UWB GPS etc. already exist in the prior art and are anticipated within the present and prior teachings.

As will be clear to those familiar with the preferred and anticipated entertainment devices J J J Jand J first listed with respect to not all of the session content including marks and events is important for controlling their functions. Thus while not necessary the present inventors prefer adding AES output filter to session processor for the purposes of creating limited AES session content under the control of external rules . As will be understood by those skilled in the art of software systems many variations are possible for providing filter with or without the preferred external rules outputting AES session content in various possible formats. What is most important is the data collected in real time about the current performance is provided to one or more entertainment devices such as but not limited to J J J Jand J. While it is preferred this data collected does not need to be represented as observations marks or event changes nor does it need to come through a session processor but rather the data collected could come directly from the observing devices e.g. the scorekeeper s console or the object tracking system many variations are possible and anticipated without departing from the scope of the teachings herein provided.

Referring next to there is shown the preferred automatic entertainment processor comprising first a UAC issuer and second one or more device wrappers . Command issuer preferably receives a filtered real time stream of AES session content for triggering the issuance of one or more universal commands to be sent to one or more entertainment device J J J Jand J thus effecting their actions i.e. state changes . As prior discussed in relation to AES session content preferably includes real time observations being made about the ongoing performance by either operators using input devices referred to as human observations or automatic machines making machine observations . Regardless of how the observations are made regardless of how they are provided e.g. via a session processor and whatever their associated data formats e.g. marks and events this AES session content serves as triggers for turning on and off various features actions of any one or more entertainment devices J J J Jand J.

While not necessary the preferred automatic entertainment processor operates under the direction of a distinct set of external trigger rules for each distinct type of entertainment device J J J Jand J to be controlled. As will be understood by those skilled in the art of software systems rather than using generalized external rules so that the entertainment processor becomes externally programmable it is feasible to hard code the decision logic herein described directly in processor . Thus while hard coded software is not preferred it will still perform the primary novel function taught herein of affecting the real time automatic control of one or more entertainment devices such as J J Jand J based upon information originated by either humans and or machines regarding the ongoing performance. As will also be understood by those skilled in the art of software systems there are many ways of creating external rule sets that can be processed in combination with the AES session content in order to automatically select or not from one or more potential universal commands . The present inventors will define their preferred implementation of UAC command issuer with respect to upcoming suffice it to say that the pattern of implementation is similar to that adopted within the prior application disclosing the session processor s functions.

Referring still to for each unique device type such as J J J and J UAC command issuer ideally maintains a device state Ids table that itself is used as additional input along with external trigger rules and AES session content for determining subsequent issuance of specific universal action commands . For example in the case where the device type is an audio system J the relevant AES session content would at least include the observations marks of clocked stopped and clock started. Realistically they should also include the game started period started period stopped and game stopped marks. Assuming that the startup device state Ids of the music system is off then external rules will indicate to the UAC command issuer that IF game started AND period started AND clock stopped THEN issue universal action command Start Music. Conversely IF device state on AND clock started OR period stopped OR game stopped THEN issue universal action command Stop Music. While this present example is representative in that it includes the three preferred types of control information input to AES processor as well as the two types of action information output by UAC command issuer it should not be in any way construed as limiting. Hence there are many well known higher level language constructs that are equally capable of expressing the necessary logic.

What is most important to the preferred teachings is the three input data sets including AES session content external trigger rules and device state Ids along with two output data sets including device state Ids and universal action commands . As prior stated while the AES processor could be hard coded and thus not require external trigger rules to accomplish the herein taught minimal functionality it must receive know session content in some format indicative of the current state of the performance as well as the current device state Ids of the entertainment device e.g. J being controlled. As will be well understood by those familiar with software systems it is not necessary that UAC command issuer issue a universal action command that itself must then be locally interpreted by each unique device e.g. a Kintronics Information Technology s PA over IP system of a given device type e.g. . PA and Music System since command issuer could just as well have issued the exact device specific commands directly interpretable by the given unique device. As is well known in the art these device specific commands are typically pre established in a software application interface API or equivalent that is usable for electronically and programmatically controlling the given device. 

Thus still referring to while not necessary UAC command issuer ultimately and preferably outputs one or more universal action commands in real time across any necessary communication path usable for electronically controlling a given unique device e.g. a Kintronics Information Technology s PA over IP system. As will be well understood by those familiar with software systems using the preferred approach of issuing universal commands e.g. start music or stop music has many advantages. First this approach supports the best practice of loose coupling between the UAC command issuer and the specific device wrapper e.g. a Kintronics Information Technology s PA over IP system which in turn means that the external rules may be pre established for the given device type e.g. J PA and Music System in general prior to actually selecting the exact device and therefore wrapper to be implemented again for example a Kintronics Information Technology s PA over IP system. Another obvious benefit is the reduction in hard coded logic within UAC command issuer that tends over time to become outdated and difficult to maintain all of which is familiar to those skilled in the art of software systems.

As will also be well understood by those familiar with software systems in general and the programming of devices with software API s in particular each universal command that is intended to effect the actions of a given device type e.g. PA and Music System must then be translated into one or more actual API commands recognized by the specific device e.g. a Kintronics Information Technology s PA over IP system. As shown in the present inventors prefer the use of an AES device wrapper software construct that includes embedded methods already capable of receiving any universal command and then invoking an associated method for translating that command into the custom API sequence s e.g. API necessary to accomplish the desired resulting device action. While various software implementations of the AES device wrapper are possible the present inventors prefer that the specific custom API sequences e.g. a sub set of API to affect the behavior of a specific device e.g. a Kintronics Information Technology s PA over IP system for a specific universal action command e.g. start music be stored as data external to the device wrapper itself. While this is preferred it is not necessary for the present invention and should not be construed as a limitation. The present invention would still perform its basic intended function if the translations of universal commands into custom API sequences was hard coded within wrapper . As prior mentioned and as will be well understood by those familiar with software systems this technique for externalizing such data tends to support more robust and maintainable software.

Still referring to after human and or machine observations as contained in real time stream of AES session content are converted into a real time stream of universal action commands by UAC command issuer using external trigger rules and knowledge of each entertainment device s state the commands are then converted into a real time stream of custom API sequences such as J API through J API by AES device wrappers such that a corresponding real time stream of custom action commands are provided to one or more specific entertainment devices of types such as J J Jand J for creating various entertainment information or otherwise performance effects.

Referring next to there is shown a table of the preferred data fields comprising a universal action command . Those skilled in the art of software systems and in particular databases will be familiar with the UAC Data Fields as described in the table and without further explanation needed where the initials Opt to the left of the Data Fields column means optional. As will also be understood while the portrayed UAC Data Fields are preferred they are not necessary as other variations are possible without departing from the scope and teachings of the present invention. What is important with respect to the preferred universal action command is that it holds sufficient information to be processed by multiple unique entertainment devices e.g. as sold by different manufactures such as Kintronics Barix or Stentofon that each represent the same single type e.g. J PA and Music System. The present inventors further prefer that the universal action command format be sufficient for processing by all unique entertainment devices of all types such as J J J J Jand J. As will be understood by those familiar with software systems and databases beyond the specified UAC Fields and their purposes as depicted the exact formats and representation of the proposed fields are also immaterial to the present invention.

Referring next to there is shown a table of exemplary entertainment devices including J J J J Jand J and others. Along with each example of the device type there is also listed its general purpose data source type and use as well as example data outputs. Those familiar with the devices types herein discussed and reviewed in present figure will understand the entertainment value provide by the listed example data outputs. Those skilled in the art of software control systems will understand that the present invention sufficiently teaches apparatus and methods for automatically controlling the listed devices types to accomplish their example data outputs all in coordination with the on going progress of a performance. Hence the reader will understand that present invention provides significant value by at least allowing a performance to be enhanced without additional labor costs for the operation of the listed entertainment devices or any similar devices such as listed in as of other Part s.

Still referring to and also to special attention is drawn to the following teachings. First it is noted that the Data File to be output or transmitted to a given entertainment device may be intended for either for direct expression through the device e.g. text to be converted to speech or shown on a display or a video to be shown on a display or it may be a script file specifying control attributes to be varied on the entertainment device e.g. brightness color fog level volume. Second the Source of the Data may either be attached to the UAC itself it may be fetched from a database or it may be from an ongoing data stream. The database or stream could be either local or remote to the automatic entertainment system . One anticipated use of an external database is to hold a list of music for immediate and automatic purchase and download by system . This database might be maintained by some third party and made generally available via the internet. It is further anticipated that the database would include songs that have been tagged with several key fields or at least semantic tokens for their variable selection. One ideal and well understood storage methodology for accomplishing this type of functionality would be to use a SQL server database with multiple search fields for each song therein contained such as but not limited to and for example with respect to the sport of ice hockey 

As will be understood by those familiar with sports in general these types of information are either readily available from the official scorekeeping system or or are preferences e.g. Theme that can be easily pre set prior to the performance. Hence when each UAC command is generated for retrieving a data file from a database such as a song from a remote third party database the UAC preferably includes an search string such as an SQL select statement for determining which data files stored in the database should be included in the possible list of choices for output where the SQL select statement is referred to in as the Data Source Inclusion Filter. Using this teaching the third part music supplier could maintain a list of songs being updated over time that are tagged for appropriateness to a given sport age level situation and preference etc. The automatic entertainment processor is then responsible for selecting one or more potential songs after which it may then randomly select one song or simply take the next song on the list with the possible exclusion of any songs already taken for the same set of inclusion filter parameters if two or more potential songs is returned from the queried database all as will be understood by those familiar with controlling the play of music at a sporting event. The present inventors also anticipate that the included list of potential songs retrieved by the SQL select statement or similar database search technique could have a second or multiple exclusion filters applied prior to the final selection. An example exclusion filter for songs would be a specific list of individual songs that those responsible for the performance do not want output even though the songs data files otherwise match the normal search criteria thus providing the local entertainment system user with a way of overriding the choices made possible by the third party database provider.

While not depicted in the figure herein it will be obvious to those skilled in software systems in general and internet ordering systems in particular that the third party database supplier could track the usage of their data and conduct appropriate automatic billing. The present inventors specifically include this type of automatically searchable database of output data files especially including songs and video clips as a novel teaching of the present invention. It is further anticipated that the database is ideally stored remotely with internet access available and that the database is connected to an automatic billing system for accounting for the transaction.

The following are all taken directly from the present inventor s prior related application entitled SESSION AUTOMATED RECORDING TOGETHER WITH RULES BASED INDEXING ANALYSIS AND EXPRESSION OF CONTENT also herein referred to as SARTRIA.

Referring next to amongst other important new teachings this prior SARTRIA application defined a universal protocol for normalizing human and machine external observations into marks a step called differentiation as well as a session processor for both integrating these marks into events and then synthesizing the combined mark and event session knowledge into summary and tertiary marks or internal observations. The session processor also included a final stage referred to as expression where for instance the events could be associated into custom foldering trees for later organized retrieval thus serving as a session index into all recorded session content such as video and audio.

Still referring to and to while the present system taught herein prefers the use of a content generation system and even more specifically the object tracking performance differentiator session processor solution prior taught it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that other software implementations are possible without departing from present novel teachings for interfacing with and controlling an automatic entertainment system . Furthermore the present inventor has depicted the automatic entertainment processor as a subsequent service to be performed after the initial work of the content generation system in general and the session processor in particular has created session content where the communication between the two is primarily through AES session content a derivative of session content implemented as a real time data stream. Those skilled in the art of software systems will understand that sufficient uses and specification for a separate preferred automatic entertainment processor have been herein taught where these teaching s in summary include programmable control via external trigger rules the monitoring of entertainment device states the issuance of universal action command and then finally the translation of the universal command into specific API sequences such as J API for controlling a specific entertainment device see especially . 

Now exclusively referring to the present inventors show that the prior taught session processor also herein preferred for use in content generation system with one variation to be discussed in relation to is further usable and preferred for implementing at least the UAC command issuer portion of the automatic entertainment system processor including all of issuer s preferred features of programmable control via external trigger rules the monitoring of entertainment device states and the issuance of universal action commands . Furthermore based upon the teachings of the prior SARTRIA application two distinct configurations are possible. In the first case as depicted in the UAC command issuer as implemented using a session processor similar to can remain connected to the output of the session indexing session processor . Hence in this first case there would be two separate session processors connected in series. In the second case the two session processors can be connected in parallel. As will be understood by a careful reading of the prior taught SARTRIA patent the teaching anticipated these various serial or parallel configurations and specifically included a mark messaging pipe e.g. see

SARTRIA for the purposes of carrying any and all human or machine observations such as made through or by external devices for example scorekeeping system or performance differentiator to the input port of one or more session processors working in parallel. As further teaching it was shown that every session processor is able to connect its output port to the same mark message pipe e.g. see SARTRIA thus supporting an infinite ability to nest session processors as needed for the desired session content transformations all as will be well understood by those familiar with software systems in general and object oriented programming in particular. And finally as will also be understood a single session processor such as herein depicted could perform both the processing of session content simultaneous with the UAC command issuance thus incorporating the first portion of the automatic entertainment processor into the content generation system .

Still referring to the reader is directed to the bolded bracketing numbering and accompanying descriptions that are shown in an effort to relate the original teaching to that herein specified. Specifically in the lower right of the original SARTRIA performance area is herein referred to as . Just to the left of performance area there is show the original external devices e.g. in the present application including but not limited to scorekeeping system or object tracking system . These external devices then generate external device data and primary marks originally now in a stage referred to as differentiation herein including performance differentiator . The present inventors herein teach that in the prior taught second stage of integration primary events originally may now be used to represent a single entertainment device type e.g. J J J J and . As will be understood from a careful reading of the prior SARTRIA application an event type is a template object meaning that it serves as pre knowledge used to create one or more actual instances of the type during a session. In this way if an event type is used to represent an entertainment device type e.g. J PA and Music System then during the processing of an ongoing session an actual instance of the event type can be used to represent the current on off state of an individual device e.g. a distinct Kintronics Information Technology s PA over IP system. 

Hence when it is understood that the actual event instances of a given template event type form a digital waveform over session time then it will also be understood that this waveform can be used to represent the transition points i.e. changing device states of a specific i.e. actual entertainment device. For examples of this waveform teaching in the SARTRIA application see FIGS. 26a 26b 26c 28a 28b and 28c. Thus when a specific device such as Kintronics System J is sent a universal action command to start outputting a data file i.e. it is turned on then an actual event instance can be created and started thus going high in electronics terminology. Likewise when the device is sent a command to stop outputting its data file i.e. it is turned off then the created and started actual event instance can be stopped thus going low. As will also be understood if the single device type again e.g. J has multiple distinct actual devices such as two separate Kintronic s systems then two event instances could be created started and stopped in parallel where each create start and stop mark carries a unique identifier for the specific Kintronic systems as one of its related datum all as will be understood in light of the prior SARTRIA teachings. 

Referring still to once it is understood that primary events may be used to represent actual entertainment device states for individual device types e.g. . it will also be seen that these current device states i.e. their representative actual event instances in combination with the incoming marks representing human and machine observations may be acted upon by mark effects events rules all as taught in the prior SARTRIA application. Hence these session processor mark effects events rules are then serving as the herein specified UAC command issuer s external trigger rules thus allowing issuer to programmatically respond to the stream of AES session content or preferably directly to observations for the conditional issuance of universal action commands based upon the current device s known state all as previously specified especially in relation to . 

And finally still in reference to as will be understood by a careful reading of the prior SARTRIA application during the synthesis stage the session processor is able to automatically make its own internal observations represented as secondary and tertiary marks. For the purposes of the present invention it is preferred that tertiary marks are used as universal action commands . As will be discussed further in relation to upcoming these tertiary marks are also controllable via external calc rules which then are acting as an extension of the herein taught and anticipated external trigger rules . Specifically if the mark effects events rules are used to start a single actual event instance representing all specific devices i.e. rather than one actual instance for each specific device then the tertiary rules may be used to issue multiple tertiary marks one for each specific device. Thus each issued tertiary mark would carry a related datum properly addressing it to a single specific device which in turn means that the session processor acting as a UAC command issuer would issue one mark to serve as one universal action command for each specific entertainment device such as multiple Kintronic s systems as dictated by tertiary rules 

Of course several variations of these teachings of applying a session processor to implement the preferred UAC command issuer are possible at least including that only one tertiary mark i.e. universal command is issued for each event type i.e. device type such as J regardless of the number of specific entertainment devices of the given type e.g. two or more Kintronic s systems. In this case all of the two or more Kintronic s systems would receive the same universal action command and thus react in the same manner. Even if the two or more specific entertainment devices or the same general type e.g. J PA and Music System are from different manufacturers e.g. one Kintronic s system and one Stentofon system they can still receive the same universal action command i.e. as mark since their AES device wrapper will properly translate the universal command into appropriate custom API sequences e.g. API all a discussed in detail with relation to

Thus the careful reader will see that the prior taught steps of the integration and synthesis of session content will suffice for also implementing the herein taught UAC command issuer as a session processor similar to . As will be obvious to those skilled in the art of software systems doing this has several advantages not the least of which is the reusability of existing software objects.

Referring next to there is shown a detailed diagram of the mark and event objects and their relationships as taught in the SARTRIA application. As can be seen an event type is shown to have duration over session time depicted as horizontal length. The event type is also shown to have three distinct points of creation starting and stopping all as triggered by mark types and respectively. Also portrayed are rule stacks governing the connection or effect of a given mark and on its associated event . Also shown are the new uses for this prior art teaching such that event types are useable to represent entertainment device types e.g. J where actual event type instances therefor represent that device type s device state i.e. high means the device is currently on or outputting while low means the device is currently off or not outputting. Furthermore as also taught herein marks and for creating starting and stopping the entertainment device s output are equivalent but not limited to human observations such as made through scorekeeping systems and machine observations such as made by performance differentiator . And finally rules for determining if a given mark and observation should create start or stop an actual event device type s state ids incorporate the intended and preferred functions of the external trigger rules 

Referring next to there is show a combination node diagram with a corresponding block diagram detailing the relationship between the tertiary mark Mc i.e. the UAC command and its potential triggering objects such as another mark type i.e. observations or an event type i.e. and e.g. device J device state transitions . As will be understood by a careful reading of the prior SARTRIA patent application each mark type template may be associated with zero or more context datum where each datum defines a unique piece or set of information that will ultimately become a corresponding related datum when an actual instance of the mark type is created from the template. What is first noted by the present inventors is that the creation and specification of each context datum associated with a tertiary mark type i.e. in this implementation universal action command is controlled by a rule stack. As prior discussed these rule stacks are sufficiently capable for drawing from any existing session content and combining or otherwise calculating to create a new datum. For the purposes of the present invention these rules stacks perform another of the specified and preferred functions covered under the overall scope of external trigger rules shown in . In this case the context datum being defined by the rule stack would represent the various universal action command data fields as detailed in

Still referring to as will be understood by those familiar with both software systems and the teachings of the prior SARTRIA application rule stacks may refer to either variable session content defined as the session is in progress or constants established prior to the session. As will also be understood all the preferred UAC data fields listed in fit into either of these two data source types. For example the following UAC data fields are ideally pre known for which constants may be used for their specification Device Type Device ID Data Source Type Data Source Connection Data Source Name Data Source Use Data Source Exclusion Filter s Data File Format Data File Start Stop Control Initiation Transition Script Termination Transition Script and Command. The remaining UAC data fields of Data Source Inclusion Filter and the actual Data File might be pre known or also generated on the fly using the current session content . The creation of these two variable UAC data fields will be discussed in greater detail with respect to . 

The present inventors note that the preceding lists of example pre known data fields vs. on the fly data fields is to be considered as exemplary rather than limiting. As will be understood by those familiar with software systems and especially the teachings of the prior SARTRIA application many of the pre known data fields could be implemented as variable data sources taken for instance from what was prior taught in the SARTRIA application as the session registry. The purpose of the session registry was to serve as a list of all external input devices that the session processor should specifically be aware of hence any of these registered external devices might at some point be transmitting valid observations for integration synthesis and expression. The present inventors prefer that the external output devices e.g. entertainment devices such as J J J Jand J also use the same registry. Furthermore the present inventors prefer that each local and remote database or data stream also be registered as they serve as session information input. Thus the reader will understand that each registered entertainment devices databases or data streams will have associated their own particular Device ID Data Source Connection Data Source Name Data File Format and Data File Start Stop Control all as related datum or similar variable data. Hence the context datum rule stack used to create any given UAC data field above listed as pre known may preferably use variable data sources to alternately retrieve this pre known data from the session registry.

As will be understood by those familiar with rule based software systems rather than using constant values it is preferable to have context datum specification rules that refer to variable data sources which themselves are pointed to a session registry. In this way one single set of rules can service any number of sessions being performed at potentially different locals with different entertainment devices databases etc i.e. presumably with different session registry entries. While this type of data factoring is a critical teaching of the prior SARTRIA application it is merely being restated here as a matter of showing that the session processor and all of its features are usable for implementing the preferred UAC command issuer . Regarding the UAC data fields being pre definable as context datum associated to a tertiary mark representing a UAC command it should also be obvious that the data fields of Initiation Transition Script and Termination Transition Script are forms of a database and as such could likewise be defined as registered devices.

And finally still referring to for each tertiary mark type serving as a universal action command the prior SARTRIA teaching provided for what was called a trigger object. This object could either be another mark or an event. For the purposes of implementing the UAC command issuer the preferred trigger object is of course the event type established to represent the entertainment device e.g. . going through its on off device state changes. Hence a simple association between the PA and Music System event type and the UAC tertiary command mark representing start music are sufficient to trigger the automatic issuance of the UAC command . As will be further understood by a careful reading of the SARTRIA application with respect to is corresponding FIG. 31 the set time parameter associated with the event type trigger can be set to either event start or event stop. Hence in this example the set time would be set to event start which is also carrying the meaning that the music system s device state is on as previously discussed especially in relation to . In a similar manner a second UAC tertiary command mark is preferably associated with the same PA and Music System event type for issuance of the stop music UAC command . In this case the set time is obviously set to be at event stop. 

It is also noted that the original SARTRIA teaching included a rule stack in association with the trigger object whether the trigger was a mark or in this AES example case an event type. This rule stack is meant to provide a conditional test before simply issuing the universal command mark to start music or stop music. However as will be understood by a careful reading since the event type itself represents the entertainment device s state the rule stack which governs that event s starting and stopping is sufficient for also triggering the UAC command issuance. Therefore the reader will understand that the trigger object associated with the universal command mark does not require an associated rule stack for the preferred implementation of the UAC command issuer 

Referring next to there is shown the original SARTRIA teaching for a descriptor. In general a descriptor also called a descriptor stack is capable of conditionally concatenating any number of tokens into strings where an individual token may itself be another string. Furthermore any individual token could be a constant or a variable drawn from any existing session content . Tokens could also have either neither or both a pre fix and suffix. A thorough understanding of the SARTRIA teachings will show that this powerful teaching allows for the simple creation of an object name e.g. Home Goal 3 or the more complex creation of a prose description e.g. At 15 07 in the first period number 17 Hospodar took a pass from 29 Donavan to put the Jr. Flyer s up 1 to 0 which was enough for a victory as the Jr. Flyer goalie Aman stopped all 23 of the Colonials shots. In the prior SARTRIA application these descriptors were used to automatically generate names and descriptions for the various events being created started or stopped.

Still referring to the present inventors teach the additional use of descriptors for creating these same conditionally concatenated strings for any context datum e.g. those related to a tertiary mark representing a UAC command not just an event type. This teaching is represented in the node diagram at the top left dotted box area of as the association line joining the context datum CD with the naming rule L . For the present example of implementing universal action commands with tertiary marks and their related datum as defined by a template context datum the two UAC data fields most benefited by using a descriptor stack are the Data Source Inclusion Filter and the Data File. As was previously discussed herein with reference to the Data Source Inclusion Filter could be an SQL select statement for querying a database of potential Data Files for output by the desired entertainment device for example a database of music for output by a PA and Music System . As will be understood by those familiar with software databases that implement a SEQUEL SQL relational database model an SQL select statement comprises a combination of standard keywords and clauses such as SELECT FROM WHERE GROUP BY etc. along with their associated variables. As will also be understood the descriptor tokens set to a constant may be used to implement the keywords or clauses while the tokens set to a session content variable may be used to as the SQL clause variables. Note that it is also possible to use the prefix or suffix to a variable descriptor token for representing the keyword or clause i.e. rather than creating an additional constant descriptor token. 

What is most important to be understood is that the descriptor object as prior taught in the present inventor s SARTRIA application is useable as is in association with any context datum to adequately create at least both simple and complex event descriptions as well as SQL select statements. The event descriptions such as Great save on shot by home goalie David Aman are ideal as automatically generated Data Files for attaching as related data to a tertiary mark i.e. being used to implement a UAC command which for instance could be issued to a PA and Music System J entertainment device for creating an audio output via a text to speech conversion or to a Video Display . entertainment device for visual posting. The SQL select statements such as SELECT FROM database WHERE sport ice hockey are ideal as automatically generated Data Source Inclusion Filters for also attaching as related data to a tertiary mark i.e. being used to implement a UAC command which for instance could be issued to a PA and Music System J entertainment device for playing music where the SQL select statement is then used by the entertainment device or its associated wrapper to query a database of music to retrieve one or more possible Data Files for output. As will also be understood by a careful reading of the present application the issuance of an ongoing stream of tertiary marks representing universal action commands with associated related datum describing current happenings as derived from either observation marks or integrated events can be used as a Data Stream for creating an on going commentary of the performance to be output on various audio or video entertainment devices.

Thus the reader will see that the present invention teaches its objects and advantages as summarized in the opening of the specification including 

As will be apparent to those familiar with the various marketplaces and technologies discussed herein portions of the present invention are useful individually or in lesser combinations than the entire scope of the aforementioned objects and advantages. Furthermore while the apparatus and methods are exemplified with respect to the sport of ice hockey as will be obvious to the skilled reader there are no restrictions on the application of the present teachings whether to other sports music theatre education security business etc. and in general to any ongoing measurable activities real virtual abstract animate or inanimate without limitation. The lack of a need or use in other such applications for a scorekeeping system does not reduce the benefits provided by a using a performance content generation system in combination with an automatic entertainment system.

Furthermore as will be obvious to those skilled in the arts of signage control systems the present teachings in general relate to any closed signage control system that includes both a manually operated console for accepting signage control signals via a keyboard and then also for generating translated control signals for output to one or more signage. While this type of signage control system is prevalent in sports the present invention should not be limited to sporting applications but rather to the situation of allowing a third party system to control a signage by issuing appropriate signals through an interface module that connects with the originally supplied console for operating the signage. This universal interface apparatus and method is especially useful when the third party system not only includes data for display on the signage but also is capable of receiving inputs automatically sensed from the surrounding environment thus providing for an automatic means of changing signage display based at least in part by the uncontrolled dynamic changes in the environment that the signage is meant to service.

From the foregoing detailed description of the present invention it will be apparent that the invention has a number of advantages some of which have been described herein and others of which are inherent in the invention. Also it will be apparent that modifications can be made to the present invention without departing from the teachings of the invention including the sub division of useful parts for lesser apparatus and methods still wholly encompassing one or more ideas herein taught.

It is understood that the examples and embodiments that are described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications and changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included with the spirit and purview of this application and scope of the appended claims and their full scope of equivalents. For example the order of processing of information is preferred and sufficient but can be adjusted and rearranged with acceptable tradeoffs. Stages and steps that are depicted in series may instead occur in parallel. Stages or steps may be skipped other stages and steps may be added etc. Also for example the software descriptions encapsulations attributes and methods suggested and preferred by the present inventors to best embody the taught apparatus and methods are a hybrid of well understood object oriented concepts. Other software modalities are sufficiently equivalent to alternately embody the taught apparatus and methods without departing from the teachings herein. Furthermore software modules and objects could be combined or broken apart associations between objects could be varied and attributes could be shifted between objects or converted into new objects. Existing objects could be converted into attributes or methods within other existing or new objects etc.

Accordingly the scope of the invention is only to be limited as necessitated by the accompanying claims.

