---

title: Operations maturity model
abstract: Embodiments are directed towards an operations maturity model. An operations management system may associate events with one or more organizations. Event metric information may be provided based on the events for one or more sub-scores. The sub-scores may be scaled to fit within a defined range. An operations maturity score may be provided for the organizations that may be based on the scaled sub-scores. One or more recommendations may be provided to increase the operations maturity score for the organizations based on operations maturity scores that correspond to the one or more organizations. Providing the recommendations, includes providing a correlation of operations practices and the sub-scores and providing configuration recommendations based on the operations practices that are correlated with above average sub-scores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367810&OS=09367810&RS=09367810
owner: PagerDuty, Inc.
number: 09367810
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151013
---
The present invention relates generally to computer operations and more particularly but not exclusively to providing a model for evaluating an organization s computer operations maturity.

Information technology has become an increasingly important and indispensable component required for the operation of most modern enterprises. This increased dependency on information technology often requires dedicated support resources be readily accessible to resolve planned or unplanned incidents that may affect the operation the information technology infrastructure. Further computer operations for complex environments may involve employing various best practices to obtain results that may be comparable to other organizations. Also the needs available resources and expertise in computer operations may vary widely between organizations. Accordingly it may be difficult to determine if an organization s computer operations are up to a standard. Thus it is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention has been made.

Various embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. The embodiments may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the embodiments to those skilled in the art. Among other things the various embodiments may be methods systems media or devices. Accordingly the various embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may. Furthermore the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment although it may. Thus as described below various embodiments may be readily combined without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

In addition as used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. In addition throughout the specification the meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. 

For example embodiments the following terms are also used herein according to the corresponding meaning unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The term organization as used herein refers to a business a company an association an enterprise a confederation or the like.

The term operations management system as used herein is computer system that may be arranged to monitor manage and compare the operations of one or more organizations. Operations management system may be arranged to accept various operations events that indicate events and or incidents occurring in the managed organizations. Operations management systems may be arranged to manage several separate organizations at the same time. These separate organizations may be considered a community of organizations.

The term operations maturity as used herein refers to an organization s maturity with respect to how it conducts its operations. Organizations that have a high level of operations maturity may be using industry best practices and so on to reduce operations errors and inefficacies.

The terms event operations event as used herein refer one or more outcomes conditions or occurrences that may be detected or observed by an operations management system. Operations management systems may be configured to monitor various types of events depending on needs of an industry and or technology area. For example information technology services may generate events in response to one or more conditions such as computers going offline memory overutilization CPU overutilization storage quotas being met or exceeded applications failing or otherwise becoming unavailable networking problems e.g. latency excess traffic unexpected lack of traffic intrusion attempts or the like electrical problems e.g. power outages voltage fluctuations or the like customer service requests or the like or combination thereof.

Events and or operations events may be provided using one or more messages emails telephone calls library function calls application programming interface API calls or any signals provided to an operations management system indicating that an event was detected that may need to be brought to the attention of a resource. Third party systems may be arbitrarily configured to generate event messages that are provided to the operations management system.

The term operations event or used herein may be a record message event incident or other indication that something related to the operations of an organization has occurred. Often these may be events as defined above. Also they may include customer service calls customer complaints inventory management alerts or the like that may be provided to the operations management system.

The terms operational maturity sub score or sub score as used herein may refer to a numerical value that represents at least one dimension of the operations maturity of an organization. Sub scores may be based on one or more metrics and or computations of metrics such as mean time to acknowledge MTTA mean time to resolve MTTR incident count per resolvers resolution escalations uniqueness of events auto resolve rate time of day of incidents adjusting for multiple events per single incident or the like or combination thereof. Also in at least one of the various embodiments computed metrics may include time to discovery time to acknowledgement time to resolution or transformations of these metrics such as mean median percentile or the like. Further one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are other relevant metrics that may be generated measured or collected to use in sub scores. It is in the interest of clarity and brevity that the description of additional metrics is omitted.

Sub scores may be scaled and normalized across organizations to enable various comparisons. Accordingly higher sub scores may indicate a higher level of operations maturity.

The term operations maturity score as used herein may be a value comprised of weighted values if the one or more sub scores. Different sub scores may have different weights depending on their contributions to the operations maturity of the organization. The operations maturity score may be arranged to be a single value that represents the operations maturity of an organization. Since the score may be generated consistently across multiple organizations the score may be useful for comparing an organization operations maturity level to other organizations.

The following briefly describes the embodiments of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This brief description is not intended as an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements or to delineate or otherwise narrow the scope. Its purpose is merely to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Briefly stated various embodiments are directed towards an operations maturity model. In at least one of the various embodiments an operations management system may associate one or more events with one or more organizations. In at least one of the various embodiments event metric information may be provided based on the one or more events for one or more sub scores. In at least one of the various embodiments the one or more sub scores that are provided may be scaled to fit within a defined range. In at least one of the various embodiments providing the one or more sub scores may be scaled based on one or more of a plurality of scaling functions. And if the one or more scaled sub scores are less than a defined lowest value the value of the one or more scaled sub scores may be set to the defined lowest value. Also if the one or more scaled sub scores exceed a defined highest value the value of the one or more scaled sub scores may be set to the defined highest value.

In at least one of the various embodiments an operations maturity score may be provided for the one or more organizations that may be based on a plurality of scaled sub scores. In at least one of the various embodiments the one or more sub scores may be provided based on a weighting that corresponds to a contribution of the one or more sub scores to the operations maturity score. And the one or more values for the one or more weighted sub scores may be provided for the operations maturity score.

In at least one of the various embodiments one or more recommendations may be provided to increase the operations maturity score for the one or more organizations based on operations maturity scores that correspond to the one or more organizations. In at least one of the various embodiments providing the one or more recommendations includes providing a correlation of the one or more operations practices and the one or more sub scores and providing one or more configuration recommendations based on the one or more operations practices that are correlated with above average sub scores.

In at least one of the various embodiments a comparison of the one or more sub scores for the one or more organizations may be provided. In at least one of the various embodiments the provided one or more comparisons of the one or more sub scores to another one or more of the organizations may be based on a type of organization.

In at least one of the various embodiments sensing geolocation information provided by one or more geolocation devices may be employed to perform one or more actions such as modifying the one or more sub scores based at least on the sensed information or localizing the one or more recommendations based at least on the sensed information.

In at least one of the various embodiments an operations maturity trend line based on at least one or more previous sub scores for the one or more organizations may be provided.

In at least one of the various embodiments an application store may be provided that includes a user interface that at least displays one or more applications that are offered. In at least one of the various embodiments if the one or more applications are correlated with one or more above average sub score values modifying the application store to show that there is an advantage to using the one or more correlated applications.

Generally client computers may include virtually any portable computing device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as network wireless network or the like. Client computers may also be described generally as client computers that are configured to be portable. Thus client computers may include virtually any portable computing device capable of connecting to another computing device and receiving information. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDA s handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or the like. As such client computers typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome Liquid Crystal Display LCD on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled mobile device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD in which both text and graphics may be displayed.

Client computer may include virtually any computing device capable of communicating over a network to send and receive information including messaging performing various online actions or the like. The set of such devices may include devices that typically connect using a wired or wireless communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network Personal Computers PCs or the like. In one embodiment at least some of client computers may operate over wired and or wireless network. Today many of these devices include a capability to access and or otherwise communicate over a network such as network and or even wireless network . Moreover client computers may access various computing applications including a browser or other web based application.

In one embodiment one or more of client computers may be configured to operate within a business or other entity to perform a variety of services for the business or other entity. For example client computers may be configured to operate as a web server an accounting server a production server an inventory server or the like. However client computers are not constrained to these services and may also be employed for example as an end user computing node in other embodiments. Further it should be recognized that more or less client computers may be included within a system such as described herein and embodiments are therefore not constrained by the number or type of client computers employed.

A web enabled client computer may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages or the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia or the like employing virtually any web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP or the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML HTML5 or the like to display and send a message. In one embodiment a user of the client computer may employ the browser application to perform various actions over a network.

Client computers also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive and or send data operations information between another computing device. The client application may include a capability to provide requests and or receive data relating to managing operating or configuring the operations management server computer .

Wireless network is configured to couple client computers and its components with network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks or the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for client computers . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks or the like.

Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers or the like connected by wireless radio links or the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G 4th 4G 5th 5G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh or the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as client computers with various degrees of mobility. For example wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobil communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA or the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between client computers and another computing device network or the like.

Network is configured to couple network devices with other computing devices including schedule manager server monitoring server application server client computer s and through wireless network to client computers . Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another. In addition communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. For example various Internet Protocols IP Open Systems Interconnection OSI architectures and or other communication protocols architectures models and or standards may also be employed within network and wireless network . Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In essence network includes any communication method by which information may travel between computing devices.

Additionally communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Such communication media is distinct from however computer readable devices described in more detail below.

Operations management server computer may include virtually any network computer usable to provide computer operations management services such as network computer of . In one embodiment operations management server computer employs various techniques for generation of managing the operations of computer operations networking performance customer service customer support resource schedules and notification policies. Also operations management server computer may be arranged to interface integrate with one or more external systems such as telephony carriers email systems web services or the like to perform computer operations management. Further operations management server computer may obtain various performance metrics collected by other systems such as monitoring server computer .

In at least one of the various embodiments monitoring server computer represents various computers that may be arranged to monitor the performance of computer operations for an entity e.g. company or enterprise . For example monitoring server computer may be arranged to monitor whether applications system are operational network performance trouble tickets and or their resolution or the like. In some embodiments the functions of monitoring server computer may be performed by operations management server computer .

Devices that may operate as operations management server computer include various network computers including but not limited to personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs server devices network appliances or the like. It should be noted that while operations management server computer is illustrated as a single network computer the invention is not so limited. Thus operations management server computer may represent a plurality of network computers. For example in one embodiment operations management server computer may be distributed over a plurality of network computers and or implemented using cloud architecture.

Moreover operations management server computer is not limited to a particular configuration. Thus operations management server computer may operate using a master slave approach over a plurality of network computers within a cluster a peer to peer architecture and or any of a variety of other architectures. Thus operations management server computer is not to be construed as being limited to a single environment and other configurations and architectures are also contemplated. operations management server computer may employ processes such as described below in conjunction with at some of the figures discussed below to perform at least some of its actions.

Client computer may include processor in communication with memory via bus . Client computer may also include power supply network interface audio interface display keypad illuminator video interface input output interface haptic interface global positioning systems GPS receiver open air gesture interface temperature interface camera s projector pointing device interface processor readable stationary storage device and processor readable removable storage device . Client computer may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computer. And in one embodiment although not shown a gyroscope may be employed within client computer to measuring and or maintaining an orientation of client computer .

Power supply may provide power to client computer . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges the battery.

Network interface includes circuitry for coupling client computer to one or more networks and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to protocols and technologies that implement any portion of the OSI model for mobile communication GSM CDMA time division multiple access TDMA UDP TCP IP SMS MMS GPRS WAP UWB WiMax SIP RTP GPRS EDGE WCDMA LTE UMTS OFDM CDMA2000 EV DO HSDPA or any of a variety of other wireless communication protocols. Network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

Audio interface may be arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. A microphone in audio interface can also be used for input to or control of client computer e.g. using voice recognition detecting touch based on sound and the like.

Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma electronic ink light emitting diode LED Organic LED OLED or any other type of light reflective or light transmissive display that can be used with a computer. Display may also include a touch interface arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand and may use resistive capacitive surface acoustic wave SAW infrared radar or other technologies to sense touch and or gestures.

Projector may be a remote handheld projector or an integrated projector that is capable of projecting an image on a remote wall or any other reflective object such as a remote screen.

Video interface may be arranged to capture video images such as a still photo a video segment an infrared video or the like. For example video interface may be coupled to a digital video camera a web camera or the like. Video interface may comprise a lens an image sensor and other electronics. Image sensors may include a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS integrated circuit charge coupled device CCD or any other integrated circuit for sensing light.

Keypad may comprise any input device arranged to receive input from a user. For example keypad may include a push button numeric dial or a keyboard. Keypad may also include command buttons that are associated with selecting and sending images.

Illuminator may provide a status indication and or provide light. Illuminator may remain active for specific periods of time or in response to event messages. For example when illuminator is active it may backlight the buttons on keypad and stay on while the client computer is powered. Also illuminator may backlight these buttons in various patterns when particular actions are performed such as dialing another client computer. Illuminator may also cause light sources positioned within a transparent or translucent case of the client computer to illuminate in response to actions.

Further client computer may also comprise hardware security module HSM for providing additional tamper resistant safeguards for generating storing and or using security cryptographic information such as keys digital certificates passwords passphrases two factor authentication information or the like. In some embodiments hardware security module may be employed to support one or more standard public key infrastructures PKI and may be employed to generate manage and or store keys pairs or the like. In some embodiments HSM may be a stand alone computer in other cases HSM may be arranged as a hardware card that may be added to a client computer.

Client computer may also comprise input output interface for communicating with external peripheral devices or other computers such as other client computers and network computers. The peripheral devices may include an audio headset display screen glasses remote speaker system remote speaker and microphone system and the like. Input output interface can utilize one or more technologies such as Universal Serial Bus USB Infrared WiFi WiMax Bluetooth and the like.

Input output interface may also include one or more sensors for determining geolocation information e.g. GPS monitoring electrical power conditions e.g. voltage sensors current sensors frequency sensors and so on monitoring weather e.g. thermostats barometers anemometers humidity detectors precipitation scales or the like or the like. Sensors may be one or more hardware sensors that collect and or measure data that is external to client computer .

Haptic interface may be arranged to provide tactile feedback to a user of the client computer. For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate client computer in a particular way when another user of a computer is calling. Temperature interface may be used to provide a temperature measurement input and or a temperature changing output to a user of client computer . Open air gesture interface may sense physical gestures of a user of client computer for example by using single or stereo video cameras radar a gyroscopic sensor inside a computer held or worn by the user or the like. Camera may be used to track physical eye movements of a user of client computer .

GPS transceiver can determine the physical coordinates of client computer on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS transceiver can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD Cell Identifier CI Service Area Identifier SAI Enhanced Timing Advance ETA Base Station Subsystem BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of client computer on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS transceiver can determine a physical location for client computer . In at least one embodiment however client computer may through other components provide other information that may be employed to determine a physical location of the client computer including for example a Media Access Control MAC address IP address and the like.

Human interface components can be peripheral devices that are physically separate from client computer allowing for remote input and or output to client computer . For example information routed as described here through human interface components such as display or keyboard can instead be routed through network interface to appropriate human interface components located remotely. Examples of human interface peripheral components that may be remote include but are not limited to audio devices pointing devices keypads displays cameras projectors and the like. These peripheral components may communicate over a Pico Network such as Bluetooth Zigbee and the like. One non limiting example of a client computer with such peripheral human interface components is a wearable computer which might include a remote pico projector along with one or more cameras that remotely communicate with a separately located client computer to sense a user s gestures toward portions of an image projected by the pico projector onto a reflected surface such as a wall or the user s hand.

A client computer may include web browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages graphics text multimedia and the like. The client computer s browser application may employ virtually any programming language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP and the like. In at least one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML HTML5 and the like.

Memory may include RAM ROM and or other types of memory. Memory illustrates an example of computer readable storage media devices for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory may store BIOS for controlling low level operation of client computer . The memory may also store operating system for controlling the operation of client computer . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client computer communication operating system such as Windows Phone or the Symbian operating system. The operating system may include or interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Memory may further include one or more data storage which can be utilized by client computer to store among other things applications and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of client computer . The information may then be provided to another device or computer based on any of a variety of methods including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. Data storage may also be employed to store social networking information including address books buddy lists aliases user profile information or the like. Data storage may further include program code data algorithms and the like for use by a processor such as processor to execute and perform actions. In one embodiment at least some of data storage might also be stored on another component of client computer including but not limited to non transitory processor readable removable storage device processor readable stationary storage device or even external to the client computer.

Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by client computer transmit receive and or otherwise process instructions and data. Applications may include for example operations management client application . In at least one of the various embodiments operations management client application may be used to exchange communications to and from operations management server computer monitoring server computer application server computer or the like. Exchanged communications may include but are not limited to queries searches messages notification messages event messages alerts performance metrics log data API calls or the like combination thereof.

Other examples of application programs include calendars search programs email client applications IM applications SMS applications Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP applications contact managers task managers transcoders database programs word processing programs security applications spreadsheet programs games search programs and so forth.

Additionally in one or more embodiments not shown in the figures client computer may include an embedded logic hardware device instead of a CPU such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Programmable Array Logic PAL or the like or combination thereof. The embedded logic hardware device may directly execute its embedded logic to perform actions. Also in one or more embodiments not shown in the figures client computer may include a hardware microcontroller instead of a CPU. In at least one embodiment the microcontroller may directly execute its own embedded logic to perform actions and access its own internal memory and its own external Input and Output Interfaces e.g. hardware pins and or wireless transceivers to perform actions such as System On a Chip SOC or the like.

As shown in the figure network computer includes a processor in communication with a memory via a bus . Network computer also includes a power supply network interface audio interface display keyboard input output interface processor readable stationary storage device and processor readable removable storage device . Power supply provides power to network computer .

Network interface includes circuitry for coupling network computer to one or more networks and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to protocols and technologies that implement any portion of the Open Systems Interconnection model OSI model global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax Session Initiation Protocol Real time Transport Protocol SIP RTP or any of a variety of other wired and wireless communication protocols. Network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC . Network computer may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computer.

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. A microphone in audio interface can also be used for input to or control of network computer for example using voice recognition.

Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma electronic ink light emitting diode LED Organic LED OLED or any other type of light reflective or light transmissive display that can be used with a computer. Display may be a handheld projector or pico projector capable of projecting an image on a wall or other object.

Network computer may also comprise input output interface for communicating with external devices or computers not shown in . Input output interface can utilize one or more wired or wireless communication technologies such as USB Firewire WiFi WiMax Thunderbolt Infrared Bluetooth Zigbee serial port parallel port and the like.

Also input output interface may also include one or more sensors for determining geolocation information e.g. GPS monitoring electrical power conditions e.g. voltage sensors current sensors frequency sensors and so on monitoring weather e.g. thermostats barometers anemometers humidity detectors precipitation scales or the like or the like. Sensors may be one or more hardware sensors that collect and or measure data that is external to network computer . Human interface components can be physically separate from network computer allowing for remote input and or output to network computer . For example information routed as described here through human interface components such as display or keyboard can instead be routed through the network interface to appropriate human interface components located elsewhere on the network. Human interface components include any component that allows the computer to take input from or send output to a human user of a computer. Accordingly pointing devices such as mice styluses track balls or the like may communicate through pointing device interface to receive user input.

GPS transceiver can determine the physical coordinates of network computer on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS transceiver can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD Cell Identifier CI Service Area Identifier SAI Enhanced Timing Advance ETA Base Station Subsystem BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of network computer on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS transceiver can determine a physical location for network computer . In at least one embodiment however network computer may through other components provide other information that may be employed to determine a physical location of the client computer including for example a Media Access Control MAC address IP address and the like.

Memory may include Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM and or other types of memory. Memory illustrates an example of computer readable storage media devices for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of network computer . The memory also stores an operating system for controlling the operation of network computer . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized operating system such as Microsoft Corporation s Windows operating system or the Apple Corporation s IOS operating system. The operating system may include or interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs. Likewise other runtime environments may be included.

Memory may further include one or more data storage which can be utilized by network computer to store among other things applications and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of network computer . The information may then be provided to another device or computer based on any of a variety of methods including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. Data storage may also be employed to store social networking information including address books buddy lists aliases user profile information or the like. Data storage may further include program code instructions data algorithms and the like for use by a processor such as processor to execute and perform actions such as those actions described below. In one embodiment at least some of data storage might also be stored on another component of network computer including but not limited to non transitory media inside processor readable removable storage device processor readable stationary storage device or any other computer readable storage device within network computer or even external to network computer . Data storage may include for example maturity models operations metrics operations events or the like.

Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by network computer transmit receive and or otherwise process messages e.g. SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Instant Message IM email and or other messages audio video and enable telecommunication with another user of another mobile computer. Other examples of application programs include calendars search programs email client applications IM applications SMS applications Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP applications contact managers task managers transcoders database programs word processing programs security applications spreadsheet programs games search programs and so forth. Applications may include operations metrics application operations modeling application resolution tracker that perform actions further described below. In at least one of the various embodiments one or more of the applications may be implemented as modules and or components of another application. Further in at least one of the various embodiments applications may be implemented as operating system extensions modules plugins or the like.

Furthermore in at least one of the various embodiments operations metrics application operations modeling application or the like may be operative in a cloud based computing environment. In at least one of the various embodiments these applications and others that comprise the management platform may be executing within virtual machines and or virtual servers that may be managed in a cloud based based computing environment. In at least one of the various embodiments in this context the applications may flow from one physical network computer within the cloud based environment to another depending on performance and scaling considerations automatically managed by the cloud computing environment. Likewise in at least one of the various embodiments virtual machines and or virtual servers dedicated to operations metrics application operations modeling application or resolution tracker may be provisioned and de commissioned automatically.

In at least one of the various embodiments applications such as operations metrics application operations modeling application resolution tracker web services application other applications or the like may be arranged to employ geo location information to select one or more localization features such as time zones languages currencies calendar formatting or the like. Localization features may be used in user interfaces and well as internal processes and or databases. In at least one of the various embodiments geo location information used for selecting localization information may be provided by GPS . Also in some embodiments geolocation information may include information providing using one or more geolocation protocol over the networks such as wireless network and or network .

Also in at least one of the various embodiments operations metrics application operations modeling application resolution tracker or the like may located in virtual servers running in a cloud based computing environment rather than being tied to one or more specific physical network computers.

Further network computer may also comprise hardware security module HSM for providing additional tamper resistant safeguards for generating storing and or using security cryptographic information such as keys digital certificates passwords passphrases two factor authentication information or the like. In some embodiments hardware security module may be employ to support one or more standard public key infrastructures PKI and may be employed to generate manage and or store keys pairs or the like. In some embodiments HSM may be a stand alone network computer in other cases HSM may be arranged as a hardware card that may be installed in a network computer.

Additionally in one or more embodiments not shown in the figures network computer may include an embedded logic hardware device instead of a CPU such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Programmable Array Logic PAL or the like or combination thereof. The embedded logic hardware device may directly execute its embedded logic to perform actions. Also in one or more embodiments not shown in the figures the network computer may include a hardware microcontroller instead of a CPU. In at least one embodiment the microcontroller may directly execute its own embedded logic to perform actions and access its own internal memory and its own external Input and Output Interfaces e.g. hardware pins and or wireless transceivers to perform actions such as System On a Chip SOC or the like.

In at least one of the various embodiments an ingestion engine such as ingestion engine may be arranged to receive and or obtain one or more different types of operations events here represented by operations event operations event and operations event . In at least one of the various embodiments operations events may be variously formatted messages that reflect the occurrence of events and or incidents that have occurred in an organizations computing system. Such events may include alerts regarding system errors warning failure reports customer service requests or the like. Operations event may be collected by one or more external services and provided to operations management system . Operations events as described above may be comprised of SMS messages HTTP requests posts API calls log file entries trouble tickets emails or the like. In at least one of the various embodiments operations events may be associated with time stamp information and or status indicators that can track when the operations event incident is reported and or occurs. Also in some embodiments operation events may be also be associated with one or more service teams the may be responsible for resolving the issues related to the operations events.

Accordingly ingestion engine may be arranged to receive the various operations events and performs various actions including filtering reformatting information extraction data normalizing or the like or combination thereof to enable the operations events to be stored and processed. In at least one of the various embodiments operation events may be stored in databased .

In at least one of the various embodiments operations events may be provided by one or more organizations. In some embodiments there may be several organization e.g. 100 s 1000 s or the like that provide operations events to the system. Operations events from different organizations may be segregated from each other so that an organization may only interact with events that are owned by it. However operations management system may be arranged to have visibility to all of the operations events to enable community wide analysis to be performed.

In at least one of the various embodiments resolution tracker may be arranged to monitor the details regarding how the operations events are resolved. In some embodiments this may include tracking the times related to the operation events the resources that are were responsible for resolving the events and so on. Likewise operations metrics may arranged to record the metrics related to the resolution of the operations events. For example operations metrics may be arranged to compute various metrics such as mean time to acknowledge MTTA mean time to resolve MTTR incident count per resolvers resolution escalations uniqueness of events auto resolve rate time of day of incidents adjusting for multiple events per single incident or the like or combination thereof. Also in at least one of the various embodiments computed metrics may include time to discovery time to acknowledgement time to resolution or transformations of these metrics such as mean median percentile or the like. Further one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are other relevant metrics that may be generated measured or collected. It is in the interest of clarity and brevity that the descriptions of additional metrics are omitted.

In at least one of the various embodiments operations management system may include various user interfaces and or configuration information that enable organizations to establish how operations events should be resolved. Not shown in Accordingly an organization may define rules conditions priority levels notification rules escalation rules or the like or combination thereof that may be associated with different types of operations events. For example some operations events may be informational rather than associated with a critical failure. Accordingly an organization may setup different rules and or other handling mechanics for the different types of events. Critical events may require immediate notification of a response user to resolve the underlying cause of the event. In other cases the operations events may simply be recorded for future analysis.

In at least one of the various embodiments operations modeler may be arranged to use the various metrics associated with operations events incidents resolution of events and so on to produce one or more models that reflect the operational maturity of the organization. In at least one of the various embodiments operations modeler may be used to generate one or more operational models from one or more organizations that may be managed by operations management system . Models for individual organizations may be provided as well as models for the community of organization and or sub sections of the community.

In at least one of the various embodiments operations modeler may be arranged to provide an operations maturity score that embodies one or more sub scores. In at least one of the various embodiments the operations maturity score may enable an organization to evaluate how well its operations such as computing operations compare to other organizations. The sub scores may enable an organization to observe how different areas of its operations compare as well.

Furthermore in at least one of the various embodiments client computer or network computer is arranged to include one or more sensors for determining geolocation information e.g. GPS monitoring electrical power conditions e.g. voltage sensors current sensors frequency sensors and so on monitoring weather e.g. thermostats barometers anemometers humidity detectors precipitation scales or the like or the like.

For example in at least one embodiment geolocation information such as latitude and longitude coordinates or the like is collected by a hardware GPS sensor and subsequently employed in the computing of sub scores sub score weights or the like. Similarly in at least one embodiment weather information such as temperature atmospheric pressure wind speed humidity or the like is collected by a hardware weather sensor and subsequently employed in the computing of sub scores sub score weights or the like. Additionally in at least one embodiment electrical power information such as voltage current frequency or the like is collected by a hardware electrical power sensor and subsequently employed in the computing of sub scores sub score weights or the like. Also operations events may be modified to include geolocation and or sensor information. Accordingly sub score may be categorized and or compared across different conditions and or locations. For example hot and cold weather extremes may be impact the values of one or more sub scores. Likewise in at least one of the various embodiments the operations management system is arranged to determine one or more localization features based on the geolocation information collected from its GPS systems sensors network network interface or the like or combination thereof.

Also in at least one of the various embodiments sensing geolocation information provided by one or more geolocation devices is employed to perform one or more actions such as providing a modification of the one or more sub scores based at least on the sensed information or localizing the one or more recommendations based at least on the sensed information.

In at least one of the various embodiments table may include various columns such as column that describes the name of the score column that indicates the scale being used for the sub score column for the raw 1 percentile score for the sub score e.g. the worst 1 of the organization in the community column for the raw 99 percentile score for the sub score e.g. 99 of organization have a lower score 1 percentile scaled value 99 percentile scaled value and percentage of contribution to the total score for the sub score.

In at least one of the various embodiments table includes several sub scores . In at least one of the various embodiments mean time to acknowledge MTTA sub score may be the average time it takes for an organization s first responder to acknowledge each event incident. In some embodiments incidents that were never acknowledged are not included in this average.

In at least one of the various embodiments mean time to resolve MTTR sub score may be the average time it takes to resolve each event incident. In some embodiments incidents that were never resolved are not included in this average.

In at least one of the various embodiments incidents resolver ratio sub score may be a measurement of an organization s incidents to resolver ratio. In some embodiments the incident resolver ratio may be computed over a defined window of time. For example an incidents per 30 days per resolver may be the number of incidents the organization received in a 30 day period divided by the total number of people who have resolved at least one incident. If an organization provides data that is less than or exceeds the defined time windows e.g. in this example more or less than 30 days worth of data the metric may be scaled appropriately to the time window to provide an estimate.

In at least one of the various embodiments escalation score sub score may be arranged to measure the number of escalation incidents that occur for an organization with a penalty for incidents that were escalated due to timeout. For example each time an incident is escalated due to timeout add two points and each time an incident is manually escalated by a responder add one point. Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments the final escalation score is the total number of points divided by an organizations total number of events incidents.

In at least one of the various embodiments an escalation may be passing the responsibility for resolving an operations event to another responsible party team. Operations management system may enable organization to define escalation rules that may be associated with the various systems and or operations events that may occur.

In at least one of the various embodiments assignments per incident sub score may be the total number of times incidents were assigned to an organization personnel divided by the number of incidents. In some embodiments this may be similar to an organization s escalation score but it also captures times if a single incident may be assigned to multiple people.

In at least one of the various embodiments timeout auto resolve rate sub score may be the percentage of incidents that were automatically resolved by the system because they were not resolved by a user or other external monitoring tool. In at least one of the various embodiments this may imply that these high urgency incidents were not effectively resolved and thus it may be best to have a low auto resolve rate.

In at least one of the various embodiments uniqueness score sub score may be the total number of distinct incident descriptions with numbers removed divided by the total number of incidents. For example CPU load on host01 at 95 and CPU load on host02 at 97 count as one distinct incident because they are parsed as CPU load on host at . In at least one of the various embodiments sub score may be computer and or calibrated for a defined time windows such as 30 days of input data.

Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments an organization s operational maturity score may be a single value such as a value from 1 10 that is generated based the values for its sub scores. Each organization may have its own operational maturity score enabling realistic comparison among the different organizations.

In at least one of the various embodiments other sub scores may be included such as one or more sub scores that represent the severity of incidents where high severity incidents while fewer in number may have a greater impact on an organization s operational maturity score. Also in at least one of the various embodiments sub scores may be introduced that account for if multiple incidents may be reported for the same event. In some embodiments an organization may employ multiple redundant monitoring services that each may provide an operations events for the same event or events that are related to the same incidents. For example in at least one of the various embodiments if a system unexpectedly goes offline it may cause several subsystems to generate operations events. Accordingly since all of these events spring from the same root cause incident e.g. the database going down the sub score may be modified to account for this.

In at least one of the various embodiments sub scores may be defined to account for incidents that be associated with occurrence of particular operation activities. Accordingly in some embodiments incidents that occur during or near the deployment of new versions of applications services. In this example a low percentile sub score may indicate that the organizations deployment procedures are not as good as they could. Or perhaps the organization s pre deployment testing quality assurance may a candidate for improvement.

In at least one of the various embodiments from time to time the particular sub scores that are selected be part of an operational maturity score may be modified. Also the methods for computing a given sub scores may also be modified. Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments operational maturity scores and the sub scores may be versioned to help ensure that if operation maturity score are compared either for the same organization or between organizations the same versions may be used.

Furthermore in at least one of the various embodiments some sub scores may include various computed metrics such as time to discovery time to acknowledgement time to resolution or transformations of these metrics such as mean median percentile or the like. Further one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are other relevant metrics that may be generated measured or collected for incorporation into one or more sub scores. It is in the interest of clarity and brevity that the description of additional metrics are omitted.

In at least one of the various embodiments as described above an operations management system may be arranged to manage several organizations. These organizations may be considered the community of organizations that are managed by the operations management system. Accordingly sub scores for the community may be generated by analyzing the operational data of the separate organizations in the community.

In addition to graphs such as additional graphs reports displays not shown may be provided that display one or more comparisons in terms of broad industry trends percentiles and histograms for both the aggregate and sub scores of organizations and or parts of organizations.

In at least one of the various embodiments raw operations events may be parsed and or processed by the operations management system so features such as timestamps status source severity or the like may be determined. In at least one of the various embodiments raw operations events may be converted into operations events that are compatible for tracking in the operations management system. For example an organization may be configured to provide email based raw operations events to report various incidents. Accordingly in this example the operations management system may be arranged to have an email inbox that can accept emailed event information. Thus if an email event is received the operations management system may scan the email contents and generate one or more operations events that conform to the internal standards of the operations management system.

In at least one of the various embodiments operations events may be associated with specific groups teams department with the same organization. Also operations events may be associated with particular processes of the organizations. Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments the operations management system may be arranged to operations events at an arbitrary granularity. Thus the tracking granularity is not limited to the organization as a whole.

In at least one of the various embodiments these additional detailed associations enable the operations management system perform data mining based comparisons that may be used to compare operations maturity information for different aspects of organizations within the same organization as well against other organization.

In at least one of the various embodiments configuration information may be defined that associates one or more operations events with particular parts of an organization. Also this configuration information may be defined to associate particular operations events to particular projects tasks teams groups customers locations or the like or combination thereof. In at least one of the various embodiments the configuration information may include rules instructions that may be written in one or more programming languages. Further in at least one of the various embodiments configuration information may include pattern matching information e.g. regular expressions that may be used to determine the associations for operations events.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments operations event information for sub scores may be gathered from the community of organizations that have provided operations events. In at least one of the various embodiments before a sub score may be provided the metrics associated with the operations events must be collected. These metrics may be pulled from databases that store the operations events and or information regarding how operations events were handled for a given organization. Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments operations metrics application or the like may be arranged to retrieve the operations events from a database or other storage system for further processing.

Likewise metrics may include mean time to acknowledge MTTA mean time to resolve MTTR incident count per resolvers resolution escalations uniqueness of events auto resolve rate time of day of incidents adjusting for multiple events per single incident or the like or combination thereof. Also in at least one of the various embodiments metrics may include time to discovery time to acknowledgement time to resolution or transformations of these metrics such as mean median percentile or the like. Further one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are other relevant metrics that may be generated measured or collected. It is in the interest of clarity and brevity that the descriptions of additional metrics are omitted.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments the sub score ranges may be computed based on the operations events that may be associated with the organizations in the community. In at least one of the various embodiments depending on the sub score there may be additional criteria that may be used to determine if an organizations event information may be used as part of determining the range of values. For example for some sub scores there may be a minimum threshold number of events that must be seen for an organization to include the organization event historical into the range determination. Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments configuration information may be provided that defined one or more conditions constraints or the like that must be satisfied.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments the raw sub score value for the sub score may be scaled. As described above operations metrics application may be arranged to scale each sub score. The scaling may be based on various functions such as log linear exponential square root dummy variable based on a threshold or the like. The particular type of scaling for a given sub score may be determined from configuration information or one or more rule based policies.

At decision block in at least one of the various embodiments if there are more sub scores to process control may loop back to block otherwise control may flow to block .

In at least one of the various embodiments there may be several different sub scores that each contribute to the operations maturity score for an organization. See . Accordingly operations events for each sub scores may be processed.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments since all of the sub scores have been processed and scaled they may be used to generate an operational maturity model for the organizations that may be managed by the operations management system.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments operation maturity models may be generated for one or more selected organizations. Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments the sub scores and operational maturity score for the selected organizations may be generated. Next control may be returned to a calling process.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments optionally the raw sub score values may be scaled. In at least one of the various embodiments sub scores may be scaled to accurately reflect how incremental improvements in an organization may contribute to the overall operations maturity of the organization. For example a log scale provides the worst performing organizations small gains if the improve their metrics increases from terrible to slightly less than terrible. Likewise a log scale enables top performing organizations to see higher gains in their score if they make incremental improvements to their already high scores. In at least one of the various embodiments this block may be optional since some sub scores may not require scaling.

The scaling may be based on various functions such as log linear exponential square root dummy variable based on a threshold or the like. The particular type of scaling for a given sub score may be determined from configuration information or one or more rule based policies.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments the scaled sub scores may be clipped to a lowest value e.g. the 1 percentile value and a highest value. For example a lowest value maybe the 1 percentile value and the highest value may be the 99 percentile given a distribution of a sub score values for a particular sub score. Accordingly if the scaled sub score value is less than the lowest allowed value for the community of organizations it is set to the lowest allowed value. Likewise if the scaled sub score exceeds the highest allowed value it may be set to the highest allowed value.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments the scaled sub score value may be normalized to a value between 0 and 1. For example in at least one of the various embodiments the 1 percentile value for the sub score may be subtracted from the scaled sub score and then divided by the range of values for the sub score. In some embodiments the scaled sub score may be normalized to a range other than 0 to 1.

At decision block in at least one of the various embodiments if there are more sub scores for the organization control may loop back to block otherwise control may flow to block . As discussed above the operations maturity model for an organization and or the community as a whole may comprise several different sub scores that attempt to capture different aspects of operational maturity.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments each sub score for the organization may be modified based on a weighting value. In at least one of the various embodiments the weight value reflects the importance the sub score in representing the operational maturity of an organization. For example referring to in this example MTTA is configured to contribute 20 to the overall operations maturity score. Accordingly in this example the sub score value for MTTA may be multiplied by 0.2 to weight it appropriately.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments the operations maturity score for the organization may be generated by adding the modified weights sub score values into a single value. As describe above the operations maturity score may be a single value that represents an understanding the operational maturity of an organization. Also in at least one of the various embodiments the operations maturity score for an organization may be scored with a version number. Next control may be returned to a calling process.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments the operations maturity score and sub scores of the organization may be compared to the operations maturity scores and or sub scores of the other organizations in the community. In at least one of the various embodiments the scores of the organizations that may be the subject of the report may be compared to the entire community of organizations.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments optionally the operations maturity score and or the sub scores of the organization that is the subject of the report may be used for one or more additional comparison. In at least one of the various embodiments the scores may be used to compare a variety of different dimensions of operations maturity. In at least one of the various embodiments various types of comparisons may be generated from data mining the scores for the organizations that are being managed. A few examples are listed below but one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate an operations management system may perform other comparision as well. In at least one of the various embodiments the operations modelling application may process the operations events using various techniques e.g. data mining informatics machine learning or the like to identify and perform relevant comparisons.

In at least one of the various embodiments the scores may be compared to the scores of other organizations that may be in the same or similar categories. In at least one of the various embodiments comparing organizations that are members of the same or similar categories may produce meaningful apples to apples comparisons. Accordingly the organizations that may be categorized using a variety of criteria such as company size industry geographic location number of employees or the like. Also in at least one of the various embodiments other criteria may include the number and or types of operations events that collected the organizations.

In at least one of the various embodiments accordingly sub scores may be generated based events associates with organizations that are in the same category or otherwise meet a defined criteria. For example there may be a MTTA for banks MTTA for hospitals MTTA for universities and so on.

Also in at least one of the various embodiments the scores may be used to track an organizations operations maturity over time. In such cases the comparison may be made between previous scores of the same organization. The comparison may be used to determine if the organizations is getting better or worse in terms of operation maturity.

Also in at least one of the various embodiments the operations maturity score and or the sub scores of the organization may be used to compare different departments groups teams or the like within the same organization. Accordingly the comparisons may be used identify one or more departments groups teams or the like that are operating below average or above average.

In at least one of the various embodiments comparisons may be made to identify performance difference that may exist between different development software engineering management frameworks such as Agile ITIL DevOps waterfall or the like. Accordingly an organization can track how different management frameworks affect their operations maturity. This type of comparision may be made between different organizations as well as different team groups within the same organization. At block in at least one of the various embodiments optionally previous sub score values may be used to generate one or more trend lines that may be used for illustrating trends and or predictions for one or more sub scores. In at least one of the various embodiments various parameters may be set using a user interface or configuration information to control the time windows curve type and so on used to generate the trend lines. In some embodiments the running averages may also be provided for display and or included in report information.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments one or more recommendations to improve the operations maturity score and or the sub scores for an organization may be determined based on the comparisons to the other organizations in the community. In at least one of the various embodiments the recommendations may be included in a report describing the operations maturity score sub scores and so on for an organization. Likewise in at least one of the various embodiments one or more recommendations to improve the operations maturity of the organization may be provided based on the comparisons to the other organizations in the community. Next control may be returned to a calling process.

Also in at least one of the various embodiments since the operations maturity score and or the sub scores of the organization may be used to compare different departments groups teams or the like within the same organization. Accordingly the comparisons may be used identify one or more departments groups teams or the like that are operating below average or above average.

In at least one of the various embodiments comparisons may be made to identify performance differences that may exist between different development software engineering management frameworks such as Agile ITIL DevOps waterfall or the like. Accordingly an organization can track how different management frameworks affect their operations maturity. This type of comparision may be made between different organizations as well as different team groups within the same organization.

Likewise in at least one of the various embodiments these comparisons may be performed for identifying the high performing and low performing aspects of within an organization or between organizations. illustrates a flowchart for process for generating recommendations for improving operations maturity scores and sub scores for an organization in accordance with at least one of the various embodiments. After a start block at block in at least one of the various embodiments for a given sub score an operations modeling application such as operations modeling application may be arranged identify other organizations in the community that may be have above average score values. In at least one of the various embodiments these organizations may be considered the high performing applications in the community. At block in at least one of the various embodiments similarly the low performing organizations in the community may be determined. At block in at least one of the various embodiments the operations practices of the high and low performing organizations may be determined and or compared. In at least one of the various embodiments this comparison may identify one or more practices that may be correlated with the different performances.

At decision block in at least one of the various embodiments if there are more sub scores control may loop to block otherwise control may flow to block . In at least one of the various embodiments since the operations maturity scores may be comprised of various sub scores organizations in the community may be analyzed for each sub score separately.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments one or more recommendations may be determined for improving the operations maturity of the organization being analyzed. In at least one of the various embodiments the recommendations may be provided in a report that may be stored and or displayed to a user. In at least one of the various embodiments the report may be interactive such that a user may enable one or more of the recommendation directly from the user interface that shows the report. Next control may be returned to a calling process.

Also in at least one of the various embodiments since the operations maturity score and or the sub scores of the organization may be used to compare different departments groups teams or the like within the same organization. Accordingly the comparisons may be used identify one or more departments groups teams or the like that are operating below average or above average.

In at least one of the various embodiments comparisons may be made to identify performance differences that may exist between different development software engineering management frameworks such as Agile ITIL DevOps waterfall or the like. Accordingly an organization can track how different management frameworks affect their operations maturity. This type of comparision may be made between different organizations as well as different team groups within the same organization.

Likewise in at least one of the various embodiments these comparisons may be performed for identifying the high performing and low performing aspects of within an organization or between organizations.

In at least one of the various embodiments the operations modeling application or the like may be arranged to analyze each organization to determine the applications services that they use and determine if there may be a correlation between particular applications services and improved score values.

In at least one of the various embodiments the analysis of the effectiveness impact of the applications may be broken down by category of organization as well. For example the high impact applications for financial business organizations may be different than the high impact applications for a healthcare organization and so on.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments one or more recommendations may be provided to organizations to employ one or more applications to improve their operations maturity score. In at least one of the various embodiments the recommendations may be communicated to one or more users associated with an organization.

At block in at least one of the various embodiments the operations management system may be arranged to include online application store that displays and highlights the various applications and services that may be available to an organization. Accordingly in at least one of the various embodiments one or more applications services that may be identified as being correlated with improve operations maturity scores and or sub scores may be highlighted in the application store. In some embodiments the highlighting may include text that indicates that organizations that use particular applications may have an average of X improvement in one or more sub scores. Next control may be returned to a calling process.

It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also cause at least some of the operational steps shown in the blocks of the flowchart to be performed in parallel. Moreover some of the steps may also be performed across more than one processor such as might arise in a multi processor computer system. In addition one or more blocks or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration may also be performed concurrently with other blocks or combinations of blocks or even in a different sequence than illustrated without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. The foregoing example should not be construed as limiting and or exhaustive but rather an illustrative use case to show an implementation of at least one of the various embodiments of the invention.

Further in one or more embodiments not shown in the figures the logic in the illustrative flowcharts may be executed using an embedded logic hardware device instead of a CPU such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Programmable Array Logic PAL or the like or combination thereof. The embedded logic hardware device may directly execute its embedded logic to perform actions. In at least one embodiment a microcontroller may be arranged to directly execute its own embedded logic to perform actions and access its own internal memory and its own external Input and Output Interfaces e.g. hardware pins and or wireless transceivers to perform actions such as System On a Chip SOC or the like.

