---

title: Electronic device with antenna having ring-type structure
abstract: In one embodiment, an electronic device including an antenna with a ring-type structure is disclosed. The electronic device includes a metal bracket and the antenna. The antenna includes a first metal ring surrounding the metal bracket, where the first metal ring has at least two sections separated by at least one gap. At least one section may operate as a radiator through radio frequency (RF) feeding at least at one portion thereof. A second metal ring may be electrically connected, at least at one point thereof, to a ground of the electronic device or to the first metal ring. At least one section of the first metal ring may operate as a monopole antenna, as a PIFA antenna, or as a loop antenna, via suitable feeding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09647323&OS=09647323&RS=09647323
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09647323
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150612
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jun. 23 2014 and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0076496 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to an electronic device and an antenna for an electronic device and more particularly to an antenna suitable for a portable electronic device such as a hand held electronic device.

With recent technical advances commercialized portable electronic devices also referred to generally as mobile communication devices may include a wireless communication function operating in several frequency bands. Consumers who use a portable electronic device demand a smaller device having various functions. To satisfy consumer demand manufacturers continually strive to reduce the size of components used in the portable electronic device and to integrate several functions using one component.

The effort to reduce the space requirements for components is equally made for the portable device antenna used to transmit and receive radio waves. For example there is ongoing work to develop an antenna that fits within a small space of an electronic device while smoothly operating in various frequency bands.

In general a portable electronic device may include at least one built in antenna. Since the built in antenna does not protrude to an outside of the electronic device an external appearance is enhanced. Disadvantageously however a performance to size relation cannot be designed in a complementary manner. In particular when a metal construction and a metal component are located near the antenna there is a problem in that the antenna s radiation efficiency is decreased and a requisite performance over a desired band or bands is also diminished.

A conventional portable electronic device typically has sufficient space for housing an antenna and a sufficient separation distance to a metal portion of the device. An exterior of the portable electronic device is formed with a dielectric material such as plastic in general. Thus for larger devices the antenna design did not pose significant problems. However with the trend towards smaller and thinner devices a space for placing the antenna has been more and more constrained and a distance to a surrounding metal construction and metal component is becoming increasingly closer.

The aforementioned metal structure significantly contributes to not only improving mechanical robustness but also enhancing an external appearance and slimming down the device in size. Therefore efforts are ongoing to apply this structure to a part of the electronic device in particular to a frame of the device.

However it is difficult for the aforementioned conventional general built in antenna to satisfy a requirement of a compact size efficiency increase and a wide band in such extreme surrounding conditions. In an attempt to solve this problem conventional methods have i arranged a patterned conductor comprising the antenna radiator at a location spaced apart from a metal construction by a maximum distance possible in a narrow space allocated for the antenna ii processed a metal construction proximate to where the antenna is located with insert molding or iii increase a thickness of region of the electronic device where the antenna is located. However in the first approach there is a limit to how close the radiator can be to the metal construction and also effectively operate which limits the ability to shrink the electronic device size and or thickness. In addition a method of performing an insert molding process on an antenna part impairs an external appearance of the antenna since there is a disparity between metal and insert molding processes in a design aspect even if it is easy to ensure radiation efficiency.

When the aforementioned metal construction is placed in a front surface of the portable device it has been used by being connected to a main ground. However this arrangement typically results in a radiation deterioration phenomenon. That is if there is a metal structure extended from the ground near the antenna near field radio frequency RF energy induces current in a corresponding metal member and generates thermal loss and radiation loss together with lossy volume thereby resulting in overall radiation efficiency deterioration.

To solve such problems a method has been used in which a metal portion of an antenna is processed with insert molding and the remaining portions of a front surface of the antenna are subjected to metal processing. However this method has a problem in that a disparity occurs between metal and insert molding processes in a design aspect.

Various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may provide an electronic device which utilizes an antenna with a ring type structure that serves as a part of an external appearance or as part of a housing of the electronic device.

According to various exemplary embodiments there is provided an electronic device that includes a metal bracket and an antenna. The antenna may include a first metal ring surrounding the metal bracket where the first metal ring may have at least two sections separated by at least one gap. At least one section may operate as a radiator through radio frequency RF feeding at least at one portion thereof. A second metal ring may be electrically connected at least at one point thereof to a ground of the electronic device or to the first metal ring.

According to various exemplary embodiments the electronic device may further include a display which is supported by the metal bracket. The electronic device may further include a substrate including an antenna feeder for feeding the first metal ring so that the first metal ring operates as a radiator. At least one section of the first metal ring may operate as a monopole antenna as a PIFA antenna or as a loop antenna via suitable feeding.

Hereinafter various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. While the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms a specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are to cover all modifications equivalent and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims. Like reference numerals denote like constitutional elements throughout the drawings.

The expression include or may include used in the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is intended to indicate a presence of a corresponding function operation or constitutional element disclosed herein and it is not intended to limit a presence of one or more functions operations or constitutional elements. In addition in the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure the term include or have is intended to indicate that characteristics numbers steps operations constitutional elements and elements disclosed in the specification or combinations thereof exist. As such the term include or have should be understood that there are additional possibilities of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constitutional elements elements or combinations thereof.

In various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure an expression or includes any and all combinations of words enumerated together. For example A or B may include A or B or may include both of A and B.

Although expressions used in various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure such as 1 2 first second may be used to express various constitutional elements of the various exemplary embodiments it is not intended to limit the corresponding constitutional elements. For example the above expressions are not intended to limit an order or an importance of the corresponding constitutional elements. The above expressions may be used to distinguish one constitutional element from another constitutional element. For example a 1user device and the 2user device are both user devices and indicate different user devices. For example a 1constitutional element may be termed a 2constitutional element and similarly the 2constitutional element may be termed the 1constitutional element without departing from the scope of the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure.

When a constitutional element is mentioned as being connected to or accessing another constitutional element this may mean that it is directly connected to or accessing the other constitutional element but it is to be understood that there are no intervening constitutional elements present. On the other hand when a constitutional element is mentioned as being directly connected to or directly accessing another constitutional element it is to be understood that there are no intervening constitutional elements present.

By the term substantially it is typically meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including but in no way limited to for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to persons of ordinary skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The terminology used in various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is for the purpose of describing particular exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. A singular expression includes a plural expression unless there is a contextually distinctive difference therebetween.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by those ordinarily skilled in the art to which various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

An electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including an antenna capable of performing a communication function in at least one frequency band. For example the electronic device may be a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to certain exemplary embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having an antenna. For example the smart home appliance may include at least one of a TeleVision TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to certain exemplary embodiments the electronic device including the antenna may be one of various medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT imaging equipment ultrasonic instrument etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a car infotainment device an electronic equipment for ship e.g. a vessel navigation device a gyro compass etc. avionics a security device a car head unit an industrial or domestic robot an Automatic Teller s Machine ATM of financial institutions and Point Of Sales POS of shops.

According to certain exemplary embodiments the electronic device may be part of at least one of an item of furniture or a building structure including an antenna. The electronic device may be an electronic board an electronic signature input device a projector or any of various measurement machines e.g. water supply electricity gas propagation measurement machine etc. . The electronic device may be one or more combinations of the aforementioned various devices. In addition the electronic device may be a flexible device. Moreover the electronic device is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in the various exemplary embodiments may refer to a person who uses the electronic device or a device which uses the electronic device e.g. an Artificial Intelligence AI electronic device .

The bus may be a circuit for connecting the aforementioned constitutional elements to each other and for delivering communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned constitutional elements.

The processor may receive an instruction from the aforementioned different constitutional elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface etc. for example via the bus and thus may interpret the received instruction and execute arithmetic or data processing according to the interpreted instruction.

The memory may store an instruction or data received from the processor or different constitutional elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface etc. or generated by the processor or the different constitutional elements. The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. Each of the aforementioned programming modules may consist of software firmware or hardware entities or may consist of at least two or more combinations thereof.

The kernel may control or manage the remaining other programming modules for example system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. used to execute an operation or function implemented in the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel may provide a controllable or manageable interface by accessing individual constitutional elements of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application .

The middleware may perform a mediation role so that the API or the application communicates with the kernel to exchange data. In addition regarding task requests received from the application for example the middleware may perform a control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for the task requests by using a method of assigning a priority capable of using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API may include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control video processing character control and the like as an interface capable of controlling a function provided by the application in the kernel or the middleware .

The application may include an Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring a physical activity level a blood sugar etc. or an environment information application e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or server . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of relaying notification information generated in another application e.g. an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application an environment information application etc. of the electronic device to the external electronic device. Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information for example from the external electronic device and may provide it to the user. The device management application may manage for example a function for at least one part of the external electronic device which communicates with the electronic device . Examples of the function include turning on turning off the external electronic device itself or some components thereof or adjusting of a display illumination or a resolution and managing e.g. installing deleting or updating an application which operates in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided by the external electronic device.

The application may include an application specified according to attribute information e.g. an electronic device type of the external electronic device. For example if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to a music play. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to a health care. The application may include at least one of a specified application in the electronic device or an application received from the external electronic device.

The input output interface may relay an instruction or data input from a user by using a sensor e.g. an acceleration sensor a gyro sensor or an input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory or the communication interface for example via the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data regarding a user s touch input via the touch screen to the processor . In addition the input output interface may output an instruction or data received from the processor the memory or the communication interface to an output device e.g. a speaker or a display for example via the bus . For example the input output interface may output audio data provided by using the processor to the user via the speaker.

The communication interface may connect a communication between the electronic device and an external device e.g. the electronic device or the server . The communication interface may include an antenna examples of which are described hereinafter. For example the communication interface may communicate with the external device by being connected with a network through wireless communication or wired communication. The wireless communication may include for example at least one of Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. . The wired communication may include for example at least one of Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network an internet an internet of things and a telephone network. A protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported in at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

An antenna described hereinafter is implemented as a ring type antenna formed around an edge which is a contributing factor to an external appearance particularly to a thickness of an electronic device. However the antenna is not limited thereto. For example a ring type antenna disposed in various manners at various positions of the electronic device may be utilized as the antenna. In addition the term ring type is used herein to refer to a general configuration of the antenna structure. That is the term ring type is used to denote a ring like structure and not necessarily a ring or loop type of antenna. A portion of the ring type antenna may be used to realize various types of antennas such as a monopole antenna or an Inverted F antenna IFA explained further below.

As shown in a display may be installed to a front surface of the electronic device . A speaker for receiving a voice of a peer user may be installed to an upper portion of the display . A microphone for transmitting a voice of a user of the electronic device to the peer user may be installed to a lower portion of the display .

Electronic device may be a bar shaped electronic device e.g. having the general shape of a substantially rectangular parallelepiped with or without rounded corners as illustrated in . Front and rear sides of device may be substantially planar. Hereafter a dimension of electronic device orthogonal to both width and length dimensions is referred to as the thickness direction or the vertical direction with the assumption that device is placed with its rear side oriented horizontally. As such height will refer to a relative distance in the vertical direction. For instance in a first metal ring surrounding the device near its rear surface is said to be disposed at a lower height than a second metal ring surrounding device near the front surface.

Components for performing various functions of the electronic device may be placed near an area in which the speaker is installed. The components may include a camera . Further the components may include for example at least one sensor module . The sensor module may include for example an illumination sensor e.g. an optical sensor and or a proximity sensor e.g. a capacitive sensor and the like. Although not shown the components may further include for example at least one Light Emitting Diode LED indicator.

A ring type antenna may be provided as an antenna of the electronic device around the periphery of device . By disposing antenna in this manner space which would otherwise be necessary for housing an antenna inside the device may be eliminated which may be a contributing factor in reducing the thickness of device . The ring type antenna may comprise the first metal ring together with the second metal ring . The first and second metal rings may have substantially the same circumferential dimensions. As illustrated in the rings may be arranged concentrically in a stacked configuration but separated in the vertical direction by a specific distance which may be uniform throughout the entire structure of device . The specific distance may correspond to a thickness dimension of a filler disposed between the rings. Stated differently the first metal ring and the second metal ring may completely overlay one another from the vantage point of a front view of the device i.e. as viewed from a point in front of the display . In other embodiments the rings may be designed with different circumferential dimensions and or may not overlay one another. Additionally filler which may be made of a non conductive material may be disposed between the rings . The filler may be a non conductive dielectric material e.g. Poly Carbonate PC . The filler may be disposed between the first metal ring and the second metal ring in an insert molding manner. The filler and the first and second metal rings and may be arranged to be exposed to an exterior of the electronic device and thus may be utilized as an ornament member.

The first metal ring and the second metal ring of antenna may be formed in an integral manner. The rings may be formed to be connected by means of at least one connection portion see of . Any one of the first metal ring and the second metal ring may be formed with two or more separate sections by the use of at least one specific gap also seen in . This ring will hereafter be referred to as the discontinuous ring . The filler may also be filled in the gap. The remaining one metal ring without the gap may have a closed loop structure. Hereafter this ring will be referred to as the continuous ring . In the example of the first ring is shown as a ring of several separated sections while the second ring is a continuous ring however in other embodiments the second ring may have separated sections and be the discontinuous ring while the first ring may be the continuous ring.

According to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure radiation resonance of antenna is attained via strategic connection of designated points on the rings to connection points of a transmission line transmitting receiving an RF signal. Radiation through the rings may be accomplished in a number of ways depending on how the transmission line connection is made. For instance radiation may be achieved by the metal ring including the gap and a loop type antenna operating in at least one frequency band may be formed. Radiation may be achieved by a coupling operation between the continuous metal ring and the discontinuous metal ring.

As noted above the first metal ring and the second metal ring may be formed to have the same shape in general and may be disposed in a separated but overlapping manner. The metal ring not including the gap may be formed in an integral manner with a metal bracket shown in installed to the electronic device or may be disposed in a floating manner relative to the metal bracket . The metal bracket may be utilized as a ground means of an antenna together with a ground surface of a substrate see of or individually.

The substrate is in the example disposed at an upper portion of the bracket . Alternatively substrate may be located at a lower portion of bracket . According to an exemplary embodiment the battery pack is installed through an opening portion formed in the rear housing but the present disclosure is not limited thereto. In other embodiments the rear housing structure may not have the opening portion.

The ring type antenna may include the first metal ring and the second metal ring as illustrated in or B and may be installed such that the second metal ring surrounds the metal bracket at approximately the same vertical level with device oriented horizontally whereas the second metal ring is at a higher vertical level and is thus spaced vertically from the metal bracket . An annular periphery of the metal bracket may be electrically isolated via a suitable isolation means from the inner peripheral surface of the first metal ring except at one or more connection points if any are designated . That is an air gap or an isolating material not shown may be provided to separate most or all of the peripheral sides of the metal bracket from the inner peripheral surface of the first metal ring .

In the example of the first metal ring which is the discontinuous ring may operate as a resonance element and the second metal ring may operate as a coupled element via electrical connections at the connection portions . The metal bracket may be electrically connected to the second metal ring at one or more connection points. The metal bracket may be formed integrated with or separated from the second metal ring . The metal bracket may operate as a separation means capable of enforcing robustness of the electronic device and capable of securing the display and a battery pack not shown separated from one another. The first metal ring and the second metal ring may be are coupled by being arranged overlaying each other in a structural relationship but closely spaced from one another by a specific separation distance in the thickness direction of device e.g. the specific distance being the vertical dimension of the filler . The rings may also be coupled via the connection portions . The structural arrangement of the rings and strategic connection at certain points to an antenna feed and ground surface may realize the antenna operational in a relatively wide frequency band.

According to an exemplary embodiment the first metal ring may be provided split into at least two sections e.g. sections and by the use of at least one gap . RF signals may be fed to the antenna in at least one portion of the at least one section of the first metal ring so that radiation is achieved via the use of the at least one gap . In the legend F denotes suitable feed points at which first metal ring may be connected to an antenna feed line RF feed .

In the illustrated embodiment the first metal ring may include the first section the second section the third section and the fourth section by the use of the gaps. As illustrated the four sections and may be formed by the use of the four gaps . However the present disclosure is not limited thereto and thus the first metal ring may include a fewer or greater number of sections by the use of fewer or more gaps.

As noted above the second metal ring may be arranged in a manner suitable for electrical connection to the metal bracket or it may be arranged in a floating manner with respect to a metal bracket . The second metal ring may also be formed in an integral manner with respect to the metal bracket . The first metal ring is implemented with the plurality of split sections and by the use of the plurality of gaps but an overall shape in which the respective sections are connected may be formed as a shape corresponding to the second metal ring . However the present disclosure is not limited thereto and thus the first metal ring and the second metal ring may be formed in different shapes. The metal bracket may have a planar shape with generally uniform thickness. However the present disclosure is not limited thereto and thus the metal bracket may have heights and thicknesses that vary throughout its geometry or may be formed in various shapes.

According to one exemplary embodiment the first metal ring is fed at a suitable position in the vicinity of one of the gaps and a connection portion whereby the first metal ring resonates as a particular type of antenna. The type of antenna may depend on the RF feeding location and method.

For instance if an RF feed point is connected to the first section of the first metal ring in an area A of e.g. at the point F in area A an antenna may operate as a Planar Inverted F Antenna PIFA by the use of the neighboring connection portion section . That is the connection section has a length that extends to the upper ring and a ground connection is made in the vicinity of the upper ring near the junction between the connection section and the upper ring . The connection section thus serves as a short lineal connection to ground to thereby provide a tuning reactance for the IFA while the elongated conductive section resonates.

In another feeding scheme if the RF feed point is connected to the third section of the first metal ring in an area B of e.g. at the point F in area B the antenna may operate as a monopole antenna. It is seen that the third section is a lineal section electrically isolated from the upper ring and also electrically isolated on opposite ends thereof from the other sections of the lower ring by virtue of the gaps at each end. Thus by connecting the third section at the point F to an RF signal line of a two conductor transmission line such as a coaxial feed or microstrip section and suitably grounding the other conductor of the two line transmission line the section may be driven as a monopole. It is noted here that the third section is shown floating in but may be suitably supported to the rest of the ring antenna structure by attached non conductive material not shown in between the gaps on the left and right sides and or the slit seen between the section and the upper ring . 

In a further embodiment if the RF feed point is connected to the second section of the first metal ring in an area C of the antenna may operate as a loop type antenna by the use of the connection portion placed to each of left and right sides of the feed position.

According to various exemplary embodiments the ring type antenna may operate as various types of antennas in various bands and may be utilized as a multi band antenna which is at least two antennas operating in two or more bands.

In addition as illustrated in Table 1 below it can be seen that smooth Total Radiation Power TRP appears when it is measured at a level of a rotation angle of 30 degrees in various bands in free space.

More specifically the feeder may be a two conductor transmission line such as a coaxial line as shown with an inner conductor an outer conductor and a dielectric material separating the inner and outer conductors . Other types of transmission lines are possible as well. The inner conductor may be galvanically connected to the first metal ring through the connection member while the outer conductor is connected to the ground surface or other ground point connected to the ground surface . Electrical connection between the inner conductor and the metal ring may be achieved by means of a specific conductive trace on the substrate from the inner conductor of feeder to a connection pad near the first metal ring and then to the first metal ring by means of the electrical connection member . In an alternative connection scheme a physical connection may be made directly from the feeder to the ring by means of the electrical connection member i.e. without the conductive trace pad . In another connection scheme the first metal ring may be connected to the feeder of the substrate directly in a physical manner without an additional electrical connection member. Further at least one matching element also serving as the above noted pad may be disposed between the electrical connection member and the feeder to adjust an operation frequency band of the first metal ring or to adjust an operating bandwidth. Various conductive materials such as a session cable a flexible printed circuit board a coaxial cable a C clip and the like may be used as the electrical connection member .

According to an exemplary embodiment described above the second metal ring is electrically connected to the ground area of the substrate but other connection schemes are possible. For example the second metal ring may be galvanically and electrically connected to each of the ground area of the substrate and a metal bracket see of . According to another exemplary embodiment the second metal ring may be electrically connected to the ground area of the substrate electronically connected to the metal bracket acting as an ground. The second metal ring may be electrically connected only to the metal bracket and not to the substrate and in this case the metal bracket may be directly connected to the ground area .

According to various exemplary embodiments there may be provided an electronic device including a metal bracket a second metal ring placed closely around an edge of the metal bracket and a first metal ring which is disposed in a separated manner spaced by a specific distance in an opposing relationship with respect to the second metal ring and formed at least in two sections by the use of at least one gap and of which an overall shape includes a first metal ring matched to the second metal ring wherein the first metal ring includes an antenna operating as a radiator by feeding at least one portion thereof.

According to various exemplary embodiments there may be provided an electronic device including a display a metal bracket for supporting the display a second metal ring formed around an edge of the metal bracket a first metal ring which is placed in a separated manner with a specific interval with respect to the second metal ring and formed at least in two pieces by the use of at least one gap and of which an overall shape includes a first metal ring matched to the second metal ring a substrate including a feeder for feeding the first metal ring and wherein the first metal ring operates as a radiator.

According to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure a antenna with a ring type structure is utilized as a part of an external appearance or a part of a housing of an electronic device and also used as an antenna for the device. Therefore since an additional antenna may not be placed inside the electronic device a space otherwise allocated for an internal antenna may be eliminated or partially used for other components thereby contributing to slimming down the size of the electronic device.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software constitutional elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and may process a variety of data including multimedia data and may perform an arithmetic operation. The AP may be implemented for example with a System on Chip SoC . The AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may perform data transmission reception in communication between other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or the server connected with the electronic device e.g. the electronic device through a network the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BlueTooth BT module a Global Positioning System GPS module a Near Field Communication NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call a text service an internet service and the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. . In addition the cellular module may identify and authenticate the electronic device within the communication network by using a subscriber identity module e.g. the SIM card the cellular module may perform at least some of functions that can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of multimedia control functions.

The cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module may be implemented for example with an SoC. Although constitutional elements such as the cellular module e.g. the communication processor the memory the power management module and the like are illustrated as separate constitutional elements with respect to the AP in the AP may also be implemented such that at least one part e.g. the cellular module of the aforementioned constitutional elements is included.

The AP or the cellular module e.g. the communication processor may load an instruction or data which is received from each non volatile memory connected thereto or at least one of different constitutional elements to a volatile memory and may process the instruction or data. In addition the AP or the cellular module may store data which is received from at least one of different constitutional elements or generated by at least one of different constitutional elements into the non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated in as separate blocks according to one exemplary embodiment at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or IC package. For example at least some of processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module may be implemented with an SoC.

The RF module may serve to transmit receive data for example to transmit receive an RF signal. Although not shown the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and the like. In addition the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving a radio wave on a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire and the like. Although it is illustrated in that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module according to one exemplary embodiment at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal via a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card in which a SIM is implemented and may be inserted to a slot formed at a specific location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. or a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a Mask ROM a Flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory etc. .

The internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive and may further include for example Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro Secure Digital Micro SD Mini Secure digital Mini SD extreme Digital xD memory stick and the like. The external memory may be operatively coupled to the electronic device via various interfaces. The electronic device may further include a storage unit or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and thus may convert the measured or detected information into an electric signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E node sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not shown an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not shown an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor etc. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input for example by using at least one of an electrostatic type a pressure sensitive type and an ultrasonic type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of the electrostatic type not only a physical contact but also a proximity recognition is also possible. The touch penal may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide the user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example by using the same or similar method of receiving a touch input of the user or by using an additional sheet for recognition. The key may be for example a physical button an optical key a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input unit is a device by which the electronic device detects a sound wave through a microphone e.g. a microphone by using a pen which generates an ultrasonic signal and is a device capable of radio recognition. The electronic device may use the communication module to receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto.

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram or a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED etc. The panel may be implemented for example in a flexible transparent or wearable manner. The panel may be constructed as one module with the touch panel . The hologram may use an interference of light and show a stereoscopic image in the air. The projector may display an image by projecting a light beam onto a screen. The screen may be located for example inside or outside the electronic device . The display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical communication interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included for example in the communication interface of . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example Mobile High definition Link MHL not shown Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC not shown or Infrared Data Association IrDA not shown .

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and electric signal. At least some constitutional elements of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface of . The audio module may convert sound information which is input or output for example through a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone and the like.

The camera module is a device for image and video capturing and according to one exemplary embodiment may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be placed for example inside an IC or SoC semiconductor. Charging may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery and may avoid an over voltage or over current flow from a charger. The charger IC may further include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. The wireless charging may be classified for example into a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type and an electromagnetic type. An additional circuit for the wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier and the like may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage current and temperature during charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. For example the battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate a specific state for example a booting state a message state a charging state and the like of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP . The motor may convert an electric signal into a mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting mobile TV may process media data according to a protocol of for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and the like.

Each of the aforementioned constitutional elements of the electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may consist of one or more components and names thereof may vary depending on a type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned constitutional elements. Some of the constitutional elements may be omitted or additional other constitutional elements may be further included. In addition some of the constitutional elements of the electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined and constructed as one entity so as to equally perform functions of corresponding constitutional elements before combination.

A term module used in various exemplary embodiments of the present document may imply a unit including for example one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of them. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component a circuit and the like. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrally constituted component or may be a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or may be a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electrically implemented. For example the module of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device which are known or will be developed and which perform certain operations.

According to various exemplary embodiments at least some parts of a device e.g. modules or functions thereof or method e.g. operations according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented with an instruction stored in a computer readable storage media for example. If the instruction is executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor the one or more processors may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least some parts of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed for example by the processor . At least some parts of the programming module may include modules programs routines sets of instructions processes and the like for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may be a hardware device configured particularly to store and perform a program instruction e.g. program module for example a hard disk a magnetic medium such as a floppy disc and a magnetic tape an optical storage medium such as a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM or a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic optic medium such as a floptical disc a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory and the like. An example of the program instruction includes not only a machine language created by a compiler but also a high level language executable by a computer by using an interpreter or the like. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to perform the operation of the present disclosure and the other way around is also possible.

The module or programming module according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may further include at least one or more constitutional elements among the aforementioned constitutional elements or may omit some of them or may further include additional other constitutional elements. Operations performed by a module programming module or other constitutional elements according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed in a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic manner. In addition some of the operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. Therefore the scope of the present disclosure is defined not by the detailed description of the present disclosure but by the appended claims and all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the present disclosure.

