---

title: Multi-channel and multi-modal language interpretation system utilizing a gated or non-gated configuration
abstract: A system, computer program product, and process are provided for multi-channel language interpretation. An interpreter voice communication device receives, from a PSAP communication device on a first channel, a request for language translation of a communication. The interpreter voice communication device also receives data through the first channel that assists a language interpreter in performing the translation. An interpreter computing device establishes a language interpretation session through a second channel with a PSAP workstation. The interpreter computing device also provides a real-time language translation of the communication based upon the data received through the first channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374465&OS=09374465&RS=09374465
owner: Language Line Services, Inc.
number: 09374465
owner_city: Monterey
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150211
---
This disclosure generally relates to the field of language interpretation. More particularly the disclosure relates to multi channel language interpretation.

Many current emergency response systems provide users with the ability to request emergency response services such as police medical and firefighting services in the event of an emergency via voice based communication technology. For instance a user in an emergency situation typically utilizes a telephone to place a call to a public safety access point PSAP to request such services. The PSAP is a call center that receives the telephone call from the user routes the telephone call to a PSAP call taker that speaks with the caller to determine the necessary emergency services in addition to other information pertinent to the particular location and emergency and dispatches the corresponding emergency services to the caller. As an example the caller can place a telephone call to a predefined telephone number such as 911 to speak with a call taker at a PSAP such as a 911 call center.

Such current emergency response systems may only provide voice communications based upon a particular language. For example the PSAP call taker may only speak English. The caller in the emergency situation would then have to speak English to communicate with the PSAP call taker in such configurations. As a result a person that has Limited English Proficiency LEP would not be able to communicate effectively with a PSAP call taker. Therefore the LEP may or may not receive the necessary emergency services in time to stop the emergency situation.

Further voice based emergency response systems are limited in their applicability. For instance a user that may be capable of providing a voice based communication may not be able to provide such a communication in the particular emergency situation. As an example a user in a hostage situation is prevented from providing a voice based communication. Thus such a user with access to a mobile device may not be able to request emergency services. In addition a user that has a voice disability is prevented from providing a voice based communication.

Therefore current voice based emergency response systems are not adequate for providing communication for those users speaking a different language or those users for which voice based communication is not feasible based upon the particular context of the emergency situation or a particular disability. Such deficiencies in current voice based emergency response systems may prevent effective dispatching of emergency services in emergency situations.

A system computer program product and process are provided for multi channel language interpretation. An interpreter voice communication device receives from a PSAP communication device on a first channel a request for language translation of a communication. The interpreter voice communication device also receives data through the first channel that assists a language interpreter in performing the translation. An interpreter computing device establishes a language interpretation session through a second channel with a PSAP workstation. The interpreter computing device also provides a real time language translation of the communication based upon the data received through the first channel.

The multi channel language interpretation configurations are not limited to two channels as a plurality of channels having more than two channels may be utilized. Further the multi channel language interpretation configurations may be multi modal as a variety of modes may be utilized to provide and receive communications such as text voice video image streaming etc.

Further the multi channel language interpretation configurations may be gated or non gated. A PSAP communication taker determines if the real time language translation is sent to the communication provider e.g. the LEP based upon a gated configuration according to the discretion of the PSAP communication taker. Alternatively the real time language translation is provided directly to the communication provider based upon a non gated configuration without the PSAP having discretion as to whether or not the translation is sent to the communication provider.

A multi channel and multi modal language interpretation system is provided so that language interpretation can be communicated effectively in situations such as non verbal needs emergency situations. A communication taker can respond and dispatch pertinent services based upon an understanding of the situation described by the LEP and interpreted for the communication taker. A variety of modes e.g. strings of text images videos etc. may be utilized by the LEP to communicate with the communication taker.

The LEP texter is an LEP that sends a string of text in a language other than English e.g. Spanish and requests a particular service. For instance the LEP texter may send a string of text in Spanish to an emergency call center e.g. a 911 call center in an emergency situation where a voice communication is not readily available. The LEP texter sends the string of text in language A e.g. Spanish from a computing device . The computing device may be a smartphone tablet device personal computer laptop computer etc.

The string of text is sent through a carrier network e.g. a cellular network utilized by the computing device . The carrier network routes the string of text to a corresponding PSAP server e.g. a server for a 911 call center. The PSAP server then routes the string of text to an available PSAP communication taker . The PSAP communication taker reviews the received communication e.g. the string of text in language A and determines that the string of text is not in English. The PSAP communication taker can then request a language interpretation session. If language A e.g. Spanish cannot easily be identified by the PSAP communication taker a computer application service e.g. a web service may be called to identify the particular language for the PSAP communication taker .

The PSAP workstation has a data storage device that stores multi channel code . The multi channel code is utilized by a processor of the PSAP workstation to manage the multi channel communication flow during the language interpretation session. A language interpretation session is initiated via the processor according to two channels i.e. a text channel and a voice channel. A unique session identifier identifies the particular language interpretation session. The particular string of text initially sent by the LEP texter is forwarded from the PSAP workstation to a language interpreter through an interpreter workstation . The interpreter workstation has a data storage device that also stores the multi channel code . In one embodiment the multi channel code is provided to the PSAP workstation and the interpreter workstation through an Application Programming Interface API . The PSAP communication taker also communicates via a voice channel with the language interpreter from a PSAP communication device to an interpreter communication device . The PSAP communication device and the interpreter communication device may be telephones smartphones or other devices capable of performing voice communications. During the voice communication the PSAP communication taker provides the unique session identifier to the language interpreter a computer system or an interactive voice response IVR systems so that the language interpreter is able to view the same user interface that is viewed by the PSAP communication taker .

The language interpreter utilizes the initial forwarded text in language A from the LEP texter and additional information provided by the PSAP communication taker in language B e.g. English concerning the particular situation to provide an effective language interpretation. For instance the PSAP communication taker may have additional information concerning the particular LEP texter that was not provided in the string of text in Language A e.g. location data determined from GPS coordinates data previously provided by the LEP texter to a PSAP call center additional information received from other peoples that have also communicated with the PSAP call center about the same situation etc. The language interpreter then performs a language interpretation of the string of text in language A to language B. The language interpreter then sends the translated text in language B to the PSAP communication taker through the PSAP workstation .

For example the initial string of text in language A e.g. Spanish may have been Hay un fuego. The PSAP communication taker may have recognized that the string of text was not in English and determined independently or with utilization of a language identification service that language A is Spanish. The PSAP communication taker initiates a language interpretation session with available language interpreter . The PSAP workstation sends the initial string of text in Spanish to the language interpreter and manages a voice communication between the PSAP communication taker and the language interpreter . The PSAP communication taker then provides any additional information that may be helpful to the language interpreter to perform a translation of the initial string of text. The language interpreter then translates the initial string of text to a string of text in language B e.g. English. Therefore the language interpreter translates the string of text to There is a fire. The translated text is then sent to the PSAP workstation for viewing by the PSAP communication taker . The translated text may only be sent to the PSAP communication taker as providing the translated text to the LEP texter in a language that is not understandable to the LEP texter in an emergency situation may only further complicate the situation.

In an alternative embodiment the language interpreter may provide the translation of the initial string of text to the PSAP communication taker through the voice communication rather than through a translated string of text so that the language interpreter does not have to type the translated string of text to possibly expedite the interpretation process. In another embodiment the language interpreter provides the translation of the initial string of text to the PSAP communication taker through voice and text.

After the PSAP communication taker understands the initial string of text the PSAP communication taker formulates a response in a string of text in language B e.g. English and sends that formulated response to the language interpreter through the interpreter workstation . The language interpreter then sends the string of text translated into language A e.g. Spanish to the PSAP communication taker . This configuration is a gated configuration since the PSAP communication determines if the translated text should be sent to the LEP texter . If the PSAP communication taker determines that the translated response text should be sent to the LEP texter the PSAP workstation sends the translated response text to the PSAP server . The PSAP server then sends the translated response text to the LEP texter .

Utilizing the previous example the PSAP communication taker may want to formulate the following string of text in response to the initial string of text of the LEP texter What is your address The PSAP communication taker sends the response text in language B e.g. English to the language interpreter . The language interpreter then translates the response text to language A e.g. Spanish as follows Cual es su direccion The interpreter workstation then sends the response text to the PSAP workstation so that the PSAP communication taker can have the discretion of whether or not to send the translated response text in a particular instance to the LEP texter according to the gated configuration. For instance the PSAP communication taker may have received external information concerning the situation that leads the PSAP communication taker to believe that sending a text message to the LEP texter may draw too much attention to the LEP texter in a hostage situation. The PSAP communication taker may then wait to send the translated response.

In an alternative embodiment the language interpreter may translate the formulated response as a voice communication rather than as a text message. In another embodiment the language interpreter may utilize both a voice communication and a text message to send the formulated response to the language interpreter .

The PSAP communication taker and the language interpreter may then perform further iterations of text translation and text response formulation so that the PSAP communication taker can obtain enough information to dispatch corresponding services to the LEP texter . Although only two channels are illustrated e.g. text and voice more than two channels having additional types of communication may be utilized to perform language interpretation and response formulation.

The embodiments described in are not limited to language interpretation of a spoken language. For example sign language can be interpreted through modes such as image and or video.

The LEP may utilize the computing device to send a text message such as Hay un fuego to a PSAP facility e.g. a 911 call and or text center. The text message that is sent to the PSAP facility is displayed on the computing device GUI .

For example the LEP texter window displays the text message that was also displayed by the computing device GUI illustrated in . After determining that the text message is not English i.e. either by the PSAP communication taker or through a language identification web service the PSAP communication taker can send the Spanish text message to the interpreter for language interpretation. In one embodiment the PSAP communication taker can simply click the text message with a user input so that the text message appears in the PSAP communication taker window . In another embodiment the PSAP communication taker can manually type the text message into the PSAP communication taker window . In yet another embodiment the text message may automatically appear in the PSAP communication taker window . Utilizing any such embodiments the PSAP communication taker can send the text message to the interpreter for language interpretation by providing an input such as selecting a button that sends the text message to the interpreter for language interpretation. Although two windows are displayed in the PSAP communication taker GUI a single window or more than two windows may be utilized to display the text messages of the LEP texter .

If the process determines that the communication is not in English at the decision block then the process proceeds to a process block to find an interpreter for the corresponding language. The corresponding language may be determined by a hub to which the PSAP communication taker sends the communication. After receiving a response from the hub with the identified language the PSAP communication taker may then request language interpretation based upon the identified language e.g. Spanish and the language spoken by the PSAP communication taker e.g. English. The process then proceeds to a process block to establish a multi channel interpretation session. For example the PSAP communication taker may initiate a first channel communication e.g. voice to the interpreter of the identified language e.g. Spanish. After the connection is established between the two endpoints e.g. PSAP communication taker and interpreter the native language communication e.g. a string of text in Spanish is routed to the interpreter workstation GUI . The interpreter performs a translation of the Spanish string of text and sends an English translation of the Spanish string of text to the PSAP communication taker through a second channel communication e.g. a communication based upon sending and receiving strings of text. The interpreter may additionally or alternatively read the English translation of the Spanish string of text to the PSAP communication taker through the voice channel in English. The PSAP communication taker may then prepare a response to the LEP e.g. a follow up question. The PSAP communication taker may then verbally provide the response to the interpreter through the first channel so that the interpreter may translate the response into the native language e.g. Spanish. In another embodiment the PSAP communication taker may additionally or alternatively provide the response to the interpreter through the second channel. Further the process proceeds to a decision block to determine if the configuration is gated or non gated. If the process determines that the configuration is non gated the process proceeds to a process block to send language translations of the PSAP communication taker responses e.g. the response directly to the LEP . In another embodiment the response is also sent to the PSAP communication taker . The process then proceeds to the process block so that the PSAP communication taker may determine the emergency needs of the LEP and then to the process block so that the PSAP communication taker may determine the emergency services.

If the process determines that the configuration is gated at the decision block then the process sends the language translations of the PSAP communication taker to the PSAP communication taker . The PSAP communication taker may then review the translated responses at the discretion of the PSAP communication taker prior to sending the translated responses to the LEP . In one embodiment the PSAP communication taker receives the response in both the language of the language spoken by the LEP Texter e.g. Spanish and the language spoken by the PSAP communication taker e.g. English. The PSAP communication taker may then read the English portion of the message to verify that the PSAP communication taker wants to send the message in Spanish to the LEP Texter . The process then sends the language translations of the responses of the PSAP communication taker to the LEP if the PSAP communication taker provides such a verification input. The process then proceeds to the process block so that the PSAP communication taker may determine the emergency needs of the LEP and then to the process block so that the PSAP communication taker may determine the emergency services.

The translation aspects of the process may be iterated until the communication between the PSAP communication taker and the LEP texter is over e.g. the emergency is over. The PSAP communication taker may then terminate the communication session with the interpreter .

The web service hub is platform independent. As an example the web service hub utilizes industry standard SOAP compliant XML. Therefore the web service hub may be utilized to establish language interpretation sessions between different types of computing systems.

The processes described herein may be implemented in a general multi purpose or single purpose processor. Such a processor will execute instructions either at the assembly compiled or machine level to perform the processes. Those instructions can be written by one of ordinary skill in the art following the description of the figures corresponding to the processes and stored or transmitted on a computer readable medium. The instructions may also be created using source code or any other known computer aided design tool. A computer readable medium may be any medium capable of storing those instructions and include a CD ROM DVD magnetic or other optical disc tape silicon memory e.g. removable non removable volatile or non volatile etc.

A computer is herein intended to include any device that has a general multi purpose or single purpose processor as described above. For example a computer may be a personal computer laptop computer set top box cell phone smartphone tablet device portable media player video player or the like.

The multi channel code may be represented by one or more software applications or even a combination of software and hardware e.g. using application specific integrated circuits ASIC where the software is loaded from a storage medium e.g. a magnetic or optical drive diskette or non volatile memory and operated by the processor in the memory of the computer. As such the multi channel code including associated data structures of the present disclosure may be stored on a computer readable medium e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like. The system may be utilized for a hardware implementation of any of the configurations provided herein.

It is understood that the computer program products apparatuses systems and processes described herein may also be applied in other types of apparatuses systems and processes. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various adaptations and modifications of the embodiments of the apparatuses systems and processes described herein may be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the present computer program products apparatuses systems and processes. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the present computer program products apparatuses systems and processes may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

