---

title: Methods of operating wireless parameter-sensing nodes and remote host
abstract: Discretely-mobile parameter-sensing nodes, such as mobile phones, may be connected to a remote host. Each of the nodes is capable of sensing parametric values that are internal, and ambient to the node. The values may relate to atypical movement of a group of users, such as warfighters, that are associated with the nodes. Upon analysis of the atypical movement, the status (e.g., health) of a user associated with a node involved in such movement can be ascertained.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479632&OS=09479632&RS=09479632
owner: OCEUS NETWORKS, INC.
number: 09479632
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150602
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 556 601 filed on Dec. 1 2014 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to mobile parameter sensing nodes e.g. mobile phones connectable via wireless connections e.g. mobile telephony to a remote host e.g. a base station NIB etc. and more particularly to methods of operating the mobile parameter sensing nodes and methods of operating the remote host.

In a wireless communication network nodes are connected wirelessly to the network. In some wireless networks the wirelessly connected nodes are themselves physically mobile e.g. a conventional mobile telephony network. While user equipment UE e.g. mobile telephones attached to a conventional mobile telephony network are themselves physically mobile their communication is supported by physically stationary infrastructure namely stationary base stations in different locations that communicate with a remote stationary mobile telephone switching office MTSO . A given one of the UEs can move from the coverage area of a first base station into the coverage area of a second base station. To facilitate the handoff of a given UE from the first base station to the second base station some received signal strength data are collected by and received from the given UE by the first base station.

Many locations throughout the world lack such physically stationary network infrastructures and or exist under conditions that deter if not prevent construction of the same. In a war zone for example building stationary network infrastructure is not feasible due e.g. to the transient nature of military personnel and equipment.

One device that can be used to improve communications in such environments is a mobile cellular network MCN communication system. Aside from the UEs in an MCN all of the components of a typical cellular network reside in one device referred to herein as a network in a box NIB . The NIB itself is mobile. The MCN provides an example of a wireless network in which not only the wirelessly connected nodes themselves are physically mobile but the infrastructure that supports their communication namely the NIB also is physically mobile.

The NIB is self contained in that it does not need to communicate with other base stations or an MTSO to provide complete cellular network functionality to instances of user equipment UEs within its area of coverage. One example of a commercially available NIB is the XIPHOS available from OCEUS NETWORKS .

As an NIB moves the network coverage that it provides moves with it. To increase the range of a MCN multiple NIBs can be networked together to create a network of MCN communication systems also referred to herein as a NOM. Among other things the MCN communication system can perform handover operations when a UE moves from one coverage area to another coverage area within the NOM. Furthermore if an MCN communication system moves from one location to another the NOM can allocate affected UEs between the moving MCN communication system and other MCN communication systems in the area.

It is to be understood that both the following summary and the detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the present invention as claimed. Neither the summary nor the description that follows is intended to define or limit the scope of the present invention to the particular features mentioned in the summary or in the description. Rather the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

In certain embodiments the disclosed embodiments may include one or more of the features described herein.

An aspect of the present invention provides a method of operating a mobile parameter sensing node connectable via a wireless connection to a remote host the method comprising sampling values of parameters that are at least one of internal to and ambient to the node respectively selectively collecting data representing at least some of the sampled values according to at least one a first subject list defining which ones amongst the parameters will have data representative thereof collected and a first frequencies of collection list of collection frequencies at which the data are to be collected respectively analyzing locally to the node at least some of the collected data in terms of one or more alarm criteria and selectively collecting data according to at least one of a second subject list and a second frequencies of collection list when one or more of the alarm criteria are satisfied the second subject list and the second frequencies of collection list being more inclusive than the first subject list and the second frequencies of collection list respectively.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a method of operating a remote host in a network of discretely mobile wireless parameter sensing nodes each node including sensors for sampling values of parameters that are at least one of internal to and ambient to the node respectively and circuitry to collect data representing the sampled values respectively and send the same to a remote host the method comprising receiving the collected data from the discretely mobile nodes respectively filtering the collected data for spikes grouping the spikes into parameter specific groups respectively arranging within parameter specific groups the spikes into batches of substantially coincidental spikes inferring that nodes exhibiting spikes in the same batches have been effected by one or more events in common respectively and adaptively instructing one or more of the following A at least one of the effected nodes and B at least one node proximate to the effected nodes to execute one or more tasks that are responsive to the one or more common events respectively.

A further aspect of the present invention provides a method of operating a remote host in a network of discretely mobile wireless parameter sensing nodes each node including sensors for sampling values of parameters that are at least one of internal to and ambient to the node respectively and circuitry to collect data representing the sampled values respectively and send the same to a remote host the method comprising receiving the collected data from the discretely mobile nodes respectively organizing the collected data into groups according to proximity of the corresponding nodes respectively determining group specific ranges regarded as typical based on the collected data corresponding to the groups respectively recognizing within the groups respectively if there are one or more nodes exhibiting atypical collected data and adaptively instructing within the groups respectively at least one of the nodes to execute one or more tasks that are responsive to the determination of atypical collected data.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a method of operating a remote host in a network of one or more discretely mobile wireless parameter sensing nodes each node being disposable in a holster worn by a user each node including sensors for sampling values of parameters that are at least one of internal to and ambient to the node respectively and circuitry to collect data representing the sampled values respectively and send the same to a remote host the method comprising receiving portions of the collected data from a given one of the one or more discretely mobile nodes including holstering status and motion data representing sampled values of motion parameters inspecting the holstering status to identify if the node is holstered on the user analyzing the motion data of the holstered node according to human physiology constraints and adaptively instructing the node to execute one or more tasks that are responsive to results of the analysis.

These and further and other objects and features of the present invention are apparent in the disclosure which includes the above and ongoing written specification with the drawings.

Embodiments of wireless parameter sensing node in a network thereof will now be disclosed in terms of various exemplary embodiments. This specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate features of the present invention. The embodiment s described and references in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment s described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic. Such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. The skilled artisan will appreciate that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with one embodiment is not necessarily limited to that embodiment but typically has relevance and applicability to one or more other embodiments.

In the several figures like reference numerals may be used for like elements having like functions even in different drawings. The embodiments described and their detailed construction and elements are merely provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of the present invention. Thus it is apparent that the present invention can be carried out in a variety of ways and does not require any of the specific features described herein. Also well known functions or constructions are not described in detail since they would obscure the present invention with unnecessary detail.

The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the present invention since the scope of the present invention is best defined by the appended claims.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the blocks in a flowchart the communications in a sequence diagram the states in a state diagram etc. may occur out of the orders illustrated in the figures. That is the illustrated orders of the blocks communications states are not intended to be limiting. Rather the illustrated blocks communications states may be reordered into any suitable order and some of the blocks communications states could occur simultaneously.

All definitions as defined and used herein should be understood to control over dictionary definitions definitions in documents incorporated by reference and or ordinary meanings of the defined terms.

The indefinite articles a and an as used herein in the specification and in the claims unless clearly indicated to the contrary should be understood to mean at least one. 

The phrase and or as used herein in the specification and in the claims should be understood to mean either or both of the elements so conjoined i.e. elements that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple elements listed with and or should be construed in the same fashion i.e. one or more of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the and or clause whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example a reference to A and or B when used in conjunction with open ended language such as comprising can refer in one embodiment to A only optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to B only optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to both A and B optionally including other elements etc.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims or should be understood to have the same meaning as and or as defined above. For example when separating items in a list or or and or shall be interpreted as being inclusive i.e. the inclusion of at least one but also including more than one of a number or list of elements and optionally additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary such as only one of or exactly one of or when used in the claims consisting of will refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general the term or as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives i.e. one or the other but not both when preceded by terms of exclusivity such as either one of only one of or exactly one of Consisting essentially of when used in the claims shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims the phrase at least one in reference to a list of one or more elements should be understood to mean at least one element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements but not necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase at least one refers whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example at least one of A and B or equivalently at least one of A or B or equivalently at least one of A and or B can refer in one embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A with no B present and optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one B with no A present and optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A and at least one optionally including more than one B and optionally including other elements etc.

In the claims as well as in the specification above all transitional phrases such as comprising including carrying having containing involving holding composed of and the like are to be understood to be open ended i.e. to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of shall be closed or semi closed transitional phrases respectively as set forth in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures Section 2111.03.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of example embodiments. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Additionally all embodiments described herein should be considered exemplary unless otherwise stated.

The word network is used herein to mean one or more conventional or proprietary networks using an appropriate network data transmission protocol. Examples of such networks include PSTN LAN WAN WiFi WiMax Internet 35 World Wide Web Ethernet other wireless networks and the like.

The phrase wireless device is used herein to mean one or more conventional or proprietary devices using radio frequency transmission techniques. Examples of such wireless devices include cellular telephones desktop computers laptop computers handheld computers electronic games portable digital assistants MP3 players DVD players or the like.

In network includes multiple nodes that communicate wirelessly i.e. via wireless communication sessions respectively with a remote host . For example network can be a mobile telephony network or a mobile cellular network MCN communication system such that host is a base station or a network in a box NIB respectively and nodes are instances of user equipment UE that can engage in radio telephony with NIB . Among other things NIB includes a wireless interface e.g. an LTE Long Term Evolution modem not illustrated a WiFi modem not illustrated etc. by which to communicate with nodes via wireless communication sessions respectively.

An instance of node can be any device that includes a wireless interface e.g. an LTE modem not illustrated a WiFi modem etc. by which to communicate with NIB via a wireless communication session . For example node can be a mobile phone e.g. a smart mobile phone running the ANDROID operating system a laptop notebook computer a tablet computer a dedicated GPS Global Positioning System receiver a smart sensor etc. Additionally such LTE modem equipped devices further include computing components not illustrated in e.g. one or more processor units one or more communications buses one or more memories one or more interfaces e.g. a man machine interface etc. Each UE communicates with NIB via a wireless communication session respectively.

Also included in is an exploded of one of UEs that illustrates some but not all of the operational components of UEs . As such each UE includes an omega engine dynamically reconfigurable criteria by which the operation of omega engine is controlled a memory to store collected data locally a sensor data collection engine and dynamically reconfigurable criteria by which the operation of collection engine is controlled. Criteria and can be stored in one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated in memories. Omega engine and collection engine can be implemented for example as executable code e.g. an ANDROID background service stored in one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated in memories in UE and executed by one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated in processor units in UE respectively. For ease of illustration communication session is illustrated as terminating in omega engine .

A detailed discussion of the components and operation of UEs and NIB appear below in the discussion of other FIGS. Briefly however it should be understood that UE also includes operational components not illustrated in FIG. A and various sensors not illustrated in which sense parameters at least some of which are operational parameters of the operational components and sample the same to thereby generate data representing the sampled values respectively. According to instances of criteria collection engine selectively collects data representing at least some of the sampled values respectively and stores the collected sensor data into memory . According to instances of criteria omega engine selectively retrieves portions of the collected data from memory and periodically sends the selected portions to NIB in messages during wireless communication sessions respectively.

In other words network of is an example of a mobile cellular network MCN communication system that includes dynamically reconfigurable UEs and a corresponding NIB that can dynamically and selectively control the reconfiguration of UEs .

As briefly introduced above in the discussion of UE includes various sensors which can be internal components of UE and or discrete external components coupled to UE . At least some of the internal sensors can be configured to sense at least some of the operational parameters of the operational components of UE . Some but not all of the various sensors are illustrated in . Examples of such sensors include a position sensor e.g. based on a global positioning system GPS receiver not illustrated in one or more platform sensors one or more sensors associated with and measuring operating parameters of a radio telephony system not illustrated in respectively an orientation sensor e.g. based on a geomagnetic field sensor not illustrated in and one or more accelerometers not illustrated in and one or more sensors associated with and measuring operating parameters of a power system not illustrated in respectively.

Parameters from sensors can be grouped into a set of domains. More particularly parameters associated with sensors and can be included in a location domain. Examples of parameters in the location domain associated with sensor include a GPS derived altitude a GPS derived latitude a GPS derived longitude a GPS derived time a GPS derived heading etc. Examples of parameters in the location domain associated with sensor include a multi dimensional array including geomagnetic field strength values for each coordinate axis in a standard three axis coordinate system a multi dimensional array including azimuth yaw pitch and roll values etc.

Parameters associated with the one or more sensors can be included in a telephony domain. Examples of parameters in the telephony domain associated with the one or more sensors include an Access Point Name APN a Channel Quality Indicator CQI an Internet Protocol IP address a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN identifier a Reference Signal Received Power RSRR indicator a Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ indicator a Reference Signal Signal To Noise Ratio RSSNR indicator etc.

Parameters associated with the one or more sensors can be included in a power domain. Examples of parameters in the power domain associated with the one or more sensors include a health index of a battery on the mobile device a charge level indicating a level of charge remaining in the battery a plugged state indicator of whether a battery charger is being charged by a charger a battery presence indicator of whether a battery is present on the mobile device a battery status indicator of whether the battery is charging or discharging a battery temperature a battery voltage etc.

Parameters associated with the one or more sensors can be included in a platform domain. Examples of parameters in the platform domain associated with the one or more sensors include a name of the UE a serial number of UE an elapsed uptime of UE an amount of free memory on UE a total amount of memory on UE an International Mobile Station Equipment Identity IMEI an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI an indicator of an operating system OS on UE a version number of the OS on UE etc.

In UE is illustrated as further including an image processor and a camera e.g. a digital camera. A variety of devices not illustrated can be mounted to UE by which a given sample of a fluid can be disposed in the optical field of camera and if needed illuminated. Such devices are analogous to a stage of a microscope wherein the stage is configured to receive a sample of fluid pressed between two slides and to dispose the same in the optical field of the microscope. When an image of the given fluid sample is processed by image processor according to appropriate corresponding image processing software executable thereon not illustrated together camera and image processor can function e.g. as a lens free digital microscope which is another type sensor and is denoted in as sensor . Such a lens free digital microscope can for example analyze a blood sample to determine red and or white blood cell counts and or spot viruses such as influenza HIV etc. a urine sample to identify indications of dehydration kidney disease etc. a water sample to identify the presence of parasites e.g. bacteria etc. toxic chemicals e.g. Mercury etc. etc.

As noted UE may include sensors that are discrete external components which are externally coupled to UE . For example UE might be coupled to vital sign sensors that sense vital signs e.g. heart rate respiration rate blood pressure body temperature etc. of a user e.g. a warrior rescuer etc. associated with and on which is borne UE . As a further example UE might be coupled to one or more sensors that sense conditions to which are exposed UE and the user e.g. a warrior rescuer etc. associated with and on which is borne UE e.g. ambient barometric pressure ambient temperature nuclear radiation chemical agents electric fields RF radio frequency microwave etc. magnetic fields etc.

The set of domains discussed above can also include domains corresponding to sensors . More particularly parameters associated with sensors and can be included in an environment domain. Examples of parameters in the environment domain associated with sensor include blood red and or white blood cell counts relative to a blood sample flags representing the presence of various viruses respectively relative to a blood sample parameters typically included in a urinalysis relative to a urine sample a flag representing the presence of any parasites relative to a water sample flags representing the presence of particular parasites relative to a water sample etc. Examples of parameters in the environment domain associated with sensor include ambient temperature ambient barometric pressure detected presence of nuclear radiation cumulative exposure to nuclear radiation detected presence of one or more chemical agents detected present of electric fields RF microwave etc. detected presence of magnetic fields etc.

Parameters associated with sensor can be included in a user domain. Examples of parameters in the user domain associated with sensor include a user body temperature a user pulse rate a user respiration rate a user blood oxygen level a user electrocardiogram EKG a user blood cell count etc.

In UE is illustrated as further including a memory that includes a settings repository. As briefly introduced above in the discussion of according to instances of dynamically reconfigurable criteria and collection engine and omega engine are configured to operate respectively. Refreshed instances of criteria and e.g. formatted as one or more XML files can be included in messages . Omega engine is further configured to receive messages during wireless communication sessions respectively and to store the refreshed instances of reconfigurable criteria and e.g. formatted as one or more XML files in settings repository . In other words omega engine is configured to update criteria and with the refreshed instances of criteria and .

In settings repository includes reconfigurable criteria and reconfigurable criteria e.g. represented by one or more XML formatted files. Criteria can include e.g. reconfigurable collection control criteria and reconfigurable storage control criteria . Criteria can include e.g. reconfigurable retrieval control criteria and reconfigurable reporting control criteria .

Reconfigurable collection control criteria can include e.g. a frequencies of collection list alarm criteria and a subject list . Reconfigurable storage control criteria can include e.g. an overwrite rule and a depth chart . Retrieval control criteria can include e.g. a withdrawal rule . Reporting control criteria can include e.g. frequency of initiation criteria packaging criteria a recipient setting and emergent criteria .

Returning to the discussion of as collection engine is configured to operate according to criteria accordingly collection engine is further configured to operate according to collection control criteria and storage control criteria because they are included in criteria which collection engine can read from settings repository . If collection engine were to collect data from all of sensors the resulting set of data would be a full set of data. Typically however collection control criteria configures collection engine to collect at least some but less than all of the data from sensors i.e. a non empty proper subset of the full set.

More particularly subject list which is included in collection control criteria defines which ones amongst the various parameters sensed by sensors will data representative thereof be collected by collection engine . Frequencies of collection list which is included in collection control criteria defines collection frequencies at which data representative of parameters sensed by sensors is to be collected respectively by collection engine . In other words collection engine is further configured to cull such data according to subject list controls which ones and frequencies of collection list controls how often .

Subject list can also organize selected ones of the parameters sensed by sensors into groups respectively. Frequencies of collection list indicates the collection frequencies at which data for the groups are to be collected respectively. Accordingly collection engine relative to a given one of the groups is further configured to cull such data for the selected parameters in the group as defined by subject list according to the corresponding collection frequency indicated in frequencies of collection list so as to produce resulting sets of data for which the data included therein are sampled e.g. at substantially the same times respectively.

Memory is of finite storage capacity. If not otherwise constrained then over the elapse of a sufficient amount of time collection engine would be able to accumulate more data e.g. more instances of each set of data than could fit in memory . To deal with the problem of too much data for too little storage capacity depth chart and overwrite rule are provided.

Depth chart which is included in storage control criteria defines how much data can be accumulated in memory for each of the parameters respectively. Depth chart can also define how many instances of each set of data can be accumulated in memory the instances of each set being sampled at substantially different times respectively. According to depth chart collection engine is further configured to accumulate data in memory e.g. instances of each set of data.

Overwrite rule which is included in storage control criteria defines how space in memory is to be reused i.e. how data in memory is to be overwritten. According to overwrite rule collection engine is further configured to overwrite previously stored instances of data in memory with corresponding newer instances of data. Overwrite rule can be e.g. FIFO first in first out LIFO last in first out etc.

As also briefly introduced above in the discussion of periodically omega engine sends the selected portions of collected data in memory to NIB . Under unusual circumstances however it might be desirable to send data sooner i.e. to not await elapse of a reporting period. Alternatively under other unusual circumstances e.g. it might be desirable to collect more data than is typically collected and or report more data than is typically reported and or report the same amount of data that is typically reported albeit at a smaller reporting period.

To facilitate being responsive to such unusual circumstances alarm criteria can be included in collection control criteria . Examples of alarm criteria include one or more alarm thresholds for the parameters sensed by sensors respectively. Collection engine can be further configured to analyze the collected data in memory in terms of alarm criteria . If any of alarm criteria are satisfied then collection engine is further configured to store satisfied ones of alarm criteria in memory . According to depth chart collection engine is further configured to accumulate one or more instances of satisfied ones of alarm criteria in memory . And according overwrite rule collection engine is further configured to limit via selective overwriting previously stored instances of satisfied ones of alarm criteria that are accumulated in memory .

As omega engine is configured to operate according to criteria accordingly omega engine is further configured to operate according to retrieval control criteria and reporting control criteria because they are included in criteria which omega engine can read from settings repository .

More particularly withdrawal rule which is included in retrieval control criteria defines which portions of data in memory are to be withdrawn. Withdrawal rule can be e.g. FIFO first in first out LIFO last in first out etc. Omega engine is further configured to retrieve one or more selected portions of the collected data in memory e.g. one or more of the instances of one or more of the sets of data in memory according to withdrawal rule .

As noted omega engine can send selected portions of the collected data to NIB via messages . Alternatively the ultimate destination for selected portions of the collected data might not be NIB but instead some other device. For example where network is an MCN and the range of network has been extended by networking together NIB and another NIB not illustrated then the ultimate destination for selected portions of the collected data might be the other NIB rather than NIB . Recipient setting defines which one amongst a plurality of remote hosts e.g. to continue the example started above NIB or the other NIB will receive selected portions of the collected data from omega engine .

Frequency of initiation criteria which are included in reporting control criteria defines a frequency at or period over which omega engine should initiate establishing a communications session e.g. for the purpose of performing one or more tasks at least one of which is reporting portions of collected data. Omega engine is further configured to initiate establishing communications sessions according to frequency of initiation criteria .

Packaging criteria which are included in reporting control criteria define e.g. how selected portions of the collected data in memory are to be included in e.g. formatted into or packaged into a given instance of message . Omega engine is further configured to configure selected portions of the collected data in memory into a message according to packaging criteria .

To further facilitate being responsive to the unusual circumstances discussed above emergent criteria can be provided. Examples of emergent criteria can include rules logical constructs related to alarm thresholds that have been exceeded. For example an emergent criterion can be a combination of one or more alarm thresholds that were exceeded at substantially the same time e.g. within a given set of data. For another example an emergent criterion can be a combination of a given alarm threshold that has been exceed at substantially times e.g. across different sets of data.

Omega engine can be further configured to read satisfied ones of alarm criteria from memory and analyze the same in terms of emergent criteria . If any of emergent criteria are satisfied then omega engine is further configured to notify NIB appropriately. Such appropriate notification can include e.g. not awaiting the elapse of a reporting period before attempting to report to NIB sending more portions of collected data than are typically sent to NIB etc.

Again NIB includes an LTE modem not illustrated by which to communicate with UE via a wireless communication session . Additionally NIB further includes computing components not illustrated e.g. one or more processor units one or more communications buses one or more memories one or more interfaces etc.

In NIB is illustrated as including a alpha engine a request handler and a memory . For ease of illustration communication session is illustrated as terminating in omega engine . Alpha engine and request handler can be implemented e.g. as executable code stored in one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated memories in NIB and executed by one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated processor units of NIB .

As NIB can receive selected portions of the collected data from different instances of UE accordingly memory is configured to include multiple collections of UE specific collected data. Alpha engine is configured to receive selected portions of the collected data via messages unpack messages and provide portions of the collected data to request handler . Portions can be formatted the same as portions or differently. Request handler is configured to store portions into one of the collections of data in memory that is specific to the corresponding given instance of UE .

As the circumstances of network change with the elapse of time the multiple collections of UE specific collected data in memory correspondingly will evolve in substantially real time and in reflection of the change in circumstances. Alpha engine or a separate analytical unit not illustrated in can be configured to perform one or more analyses at least upon the data stored in memory . Such an analytical unit for example could be included in NIB and implemented e.g. as executable code stored in one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated in memories in NIB and executed by one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated in processor units of NIB .

Relative to the data in memory such analyses can be based upon only the given collection of data that is specific to UE or upon the given collection and one or more ones of other UE specific collections of data.

Based upon such analyses it may be desirable that refreshed instances of criteria and or be generated e.g. by alpha engine or the analytical unit. Such instances are described using the adjective refreshed because at the time of their generation they are newer than the corresponding instances of criteria and or stored in settings repository . In other words at the time of their generation refreshed instances of criteria and or are likely to be better adapted to the circumstances confronting UE than are the corresponding instances of criteria and or stored in settings repository .

Alpha engine is further configured to include the refreshed instances of criteria and or in messages and then to send messages to UE during wireless communication sessions respectively. Again omega engine is configured to receive messages and store the refreshed instances of criteria and or that were in included in messages respectively in settings repository . As such UE and the operation thereof are dynamically reconfigurable.

As noted omega engine and collection engine can be implemented e.g. as executable code stored in one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated memories in UE and executed by one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated processor units in UE . Alpha engine can be implemented e.g. as executable code stored in one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated memories in NIB and executed by one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated processor units of NIB . Such implementations can conform to the communication layer diagram of .

More particularly each of omega engine and alpha engine can have a stack based in part on industry standard layers. The layers illustrated in represent but one example of combinations of layers that can be included in such stacks respectively. Such layers from top to bottom for example as illustrated in can include a physical layer an IP layer a TCP layer or a UDP layer an HTTP layer or an HTTPS layer and a RESTful layer. Alternatively different combinations of layers could be used in the stack. The RESTful layer is a RESTful web service where REST is the acronym for representational state transfer. RESTful Web services are different than REST per se. REST is an architectural approach that can be applied to many things. RESTful web services are a specific approach to web services that utilizes restful aspects of HTTP.

In addition the stack of each of omega engine and alpha engine can further include another layer on top of the RESTful layer. For example the additional layer can be a network specific messaging protocol that is specific to network .

More particularly can regarded as illustrating an example of how to operate one or more of sensors and collection engine of UE . Overall the flowchart of can be regarded as a loop. As a general design consideration no loop should be infinite i.e. inescapable. Accordingly flow in starts at block and proceeds to decision block where collection engine decides if any exit criteria have been satisfied. If the decision is yes one or more of the exit criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block and ends. If the decision is no none of the exit criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block .

At block parameters are sampled e.g. by one or more of sensors and corresponding data are collected by collection engine according to a first subject list and or a first frequencies of collection list. As explained above a subject list e.g. subject list which is included in collection control criteria defines which ones amongst the various parameters sensed by sensors will data representative thereof be collected by collection engine . And a frequencies of collection list e.g. frequencies of collection list which is included in collection control criteria defines collection frequencies at which data representative of parameters sensed by sensors are to be collected respectively by collection engine . Flow proceeds from block to block .

As explained above under unusual circumstances it might be desirable among other things to collect more data than is typically collected. One way to respond to unusual conditions by collecting more data is to use alarm criteria e.g. alarm criteria . At block collection engine analyzes the collected data according to one or more alarm criteria. Flow proceeds from block to decision block where collection engine determines if any alarm criteria are satisfied. As such the collected data is analyzed locally. If the decision is no none of the alarm criteria has been satisfied then flow loops back up to decision block . If the decision is yes one or more of the alarm criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block where collection engine stores satisfied ones of the alarm criteria in memory e.g. memory .

To facilitate being responsive to such unusual circumstances alarm criteria can be included in collection control criteria . Examples of alarm criteria include one or more alarm thresholds for the parameters sensed by sensors respectively. Collection engine can be further configured to analyze the collected data in memory in terms of alarm criteria . If any of alarm criteria are satisfied then collection engine is further configured to store satisfied ones of alarm criteria in memory . Flow proceeds from block to block .

At block because one or more of the alarm criteria are satisfied parameters are sampled e.g. by one or more of sensors and corresponding data are collected by collection engine according to a second subject list and or a second frequencies of collection list. The second subject list is more inclusive of the parameters than the first subject list as illustrated in the Venn diagram of . The second frequencies of collection list is more inclusive than the first frequencies of collection list. For a set of N parameters parameters P P the magnitude of the frequency of collection for at least one parameter P the iparameter P is greater in the second frequencies of collection list than the first frequencies of collection list as illustrated by the contrast between and FIG. D i.e. by the contrast between the collection frequency magnitudes of corresponding parameter numbers P of . For simplicity of illustration only an exemplary five parameters P P are illustrated in . To restate more parameters will be sampled according to the second subject list than are sampled according to the first subject list and or at least some of the data will be collected at higher frequencies according to the second frequencies of collection list than according to the first frequencies of collection list.

More particularly can regarded as illustrating an example of how to operate omega engine of UE . Overall the flowchart of can be regarded as a loop. As a general design consideration no loop should be infinite i.e. inescapable. Accordingly flow in starts at block and proceeds to decision block where omega engine decides if any exit criteria have been satisfied. If the decision is yes one or more of the exit criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block and ends. If the decision is no none of the exit criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block .

As explained above under unusual circumstances it might be desirable among other things to report data more frequently than is typically reported. One way to respond to unusual conditions by reporting data more frequently is to use emergent criteria e.g. emergent criteria . At block omega engine analyzes satisfied ones of the alarm criteria according to one or more emergent criteria. Flow proceeds from block to decision block where omega engine determines if any emergent criteria are satisfied. As such the satisfied ones of the alarm criteria are analyzed locally. If the decision is no none of the emergent criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block where omega engine selects a first reporting interval. If the decision is yes one or more of the emergent criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block where omega engine selects a second reporting interval. The second reporting interval is smaller than the first reporting interval as illustrated in time interval diagram of . As such omega engine reports more frequently according to the second reporting interval than according to the first reporting interval. From each of blocks and flow proceeds to block .

At block omega engine retrieves selected portions of the collected data from memory according to a contents list which is included e.g. in packaging criteria . As explained above packaging criteria which are included in reporting control criteria define e.g. how selected portions of the collected data in memory are to be included in e.g. formatted into or packaged into a given instance of message . Packaging criteria can also include one or more contents lists each list defining portions of the collected data that are to be retrieved for inclusion in a report e.g. message that will be sent by omega engine e.g. to alpha engine of NIB . Omega engine is further configured to retrieve selected portions of the collected data from memory for inclusion in a message according to the one or more contents lists which are included in packaging criteria . Flow proceeds from block to block .

At block omega engine assembles the report e.g. message including the selected portions of the collected data. Flow proceeds from block to block where omega engine sends the report e.g. to alpha engine of NIB according to the selected reporting interval. Flow proceeds from block back up to block .

More particularly can be regarded as illustrating another example of how to operate omega engine of UE . Overall the flowchart of can be regarded as a loop. As a general design consideration no loop should be infinite i.e. inescapable. Accordingly flow in starts at block and proceeds to decision block where omega engine decides if any exit criteria have been satisfied. If the decision is yes one or more of the exit criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block and ends. If the decision is no none of the exit criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block .

As explained above under unusual circumstances it might be desirable among other things to report more data than is typically reported. One way to respond to unusual conditions by reporting more data is to use emergent criteria e.g. emergent criteria . At block omega engine analyzes satisfied ones of the alarm criteria according to one or more emergent criteria. Flow proceeds from block to decision block where omega engine determines if any emergent criteria are satisfied. If the decision is no none of the emergent criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block where omega engine selects a first contents list. If the decision is yes one or more of the emergent criteria have been satisfied then flow proceeds to block where omega engine selects a second contents list. The second contents list is more inclusive than the first contents list as illustrated in the Venn diagram of . As such omega engine selects more portions and or portions that are larger according to the second contents list than according to the first contents list.

Also as explained above contents lists can be included in packaging criteria which are themselves included in reporting control criteria . Again a contents list defines portions of the collected data that are to be retrieved for inclusion in a report e.g. message that will be sent by omega engine e.g. to alpha engine of NIB . And again omega engine is further configured to retrieve selected portions of the collected data from memory for inclusion in a message according to the one or more contents lists which are included in packaging criteria . From each of blocks and flow proceeds to block .

At block omega engine retrieves selected portions of the collected data from memory according to the selected contents list. Flow proceeds from block to block . At block omega engine assembles the report e.g. message including the selected portions of the collected data. Flow proceeds from block to block where omega engine sends the report e.g. to alpha engine of NIB . Flow proceeds from block back up to block .

More particularly can regarded as illustrating an example of how to operate alpha engine of UE or a separate analytical unit of UE not illustrated . Either alpha engine or the separate analytical unit can be configured to perform one or more analyses at least upon the data stored in memory . Such an analytical unit for example could be included in NIB and implemented e.g. as executable code stored in one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated memories in NIB and executed by one or more of the noted above albeit not illustrated processor units of NIB . Relative to the data in memory such analyses can be based upon only the given collection of data that is specific to UE or upon the given collection and one or more ones of other UE specific collections of data.

Overall the flowchart of can be regarded as a loop. As a general design consideration no loop should be infinite i.e. inescapable. Accordingly flow in starts at block and proceeds to decision block where alpha engine decides if any exit criteria have been satisfied. If the decision is yes one or more of the exit criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block and ends. If the decision is no none of the exit criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block .

At block alpha engine receives collected sensor data from multiple discretely mobile nodes e.g. instances of UE . Such nodes can be borne by users e.g. warriors in a war zone context rescuers in the context of a disaster response scenario etc. The collected data can include acceleration data regarding accelerations undergone by the nodes and thus undergone by the users on whom the nodes are borne respectively. Flow proceeds from block to block .

At block alpha engine filters the collected data for spikes. Flow proceeds from block to block where alpha engine groups the spikes into parameter specific groups. In other words spikes associated with a first parameter are placed in a first group spikes associated with a second parameter are placed in a second group etc. Flow proceeds from block to block where alpha engine arranges within the parameter specific groups the spikes therein into batches of substantially coincidental spikes. For example within a group of spikes that are specific to a given acceleration parameter spikes from different nodes may be present. At block the spikes from the different nodes would be arranged into batches such that within each batch the spikes would be substantially coincidental. Flow proceeds from block to block .

At block alpha engine infers that nodes which exhibit spikes in the same batches have been effected by one or more events in common. To continue the example of the acceleration parameter specific group of spikes if there are first and second batches of spikes therein then alpha engine would infer that nodes which exhibit spikes in the first batch were effected by a common event and that nodes which exhibit spikes in the first batch were effected by a common event.

To further expand the example of the acceleration parameter specific group of spikes if it is assumed 1 that there are numerous batches 2 that spikes in the numerous batches correspond to substantially overlapping sets of nodes respectively 3 the spikes within a given batch are from different nodes but are substantially coincidental and 4 the batches i.e. the respective arrangements of coincidental spikes occur at substantially different times within an interval then alpha engine would infer from the batches that the nodes corresponding to the batches were subjected to bombardment during the interval.

From block flow proceeds to block where alpha engine adaptively instructs A at least one of the effected nodes and or B at least one node proximate to the effected nodes to execute one or more tasks that are responsive to the one or more common events respectively. From block flow proceeds back to block .

For example tasks that are responsive to the one or more common events can include one or more of a first task of using a man machine interface on a given one of the effected nodes to interact with the corresponding user thereof and to transmit resultant data back to alpha engine as illustrated by optional block within block a second task of streaming a video signal as resultant data from an effected node s to alpha engine as illustrated by optional block within block a third task of dispatching a neighbor user of a node not effected by the one or more common events albeit proximate to the effected nodes to inspect the health of users of the effected nodes respectively as illustrated by optional block within block . As blocks are optional they are illustrated in broken lines in . Alpha engine might for example initially instruct the execution of the tasks of optional block and or receive the resultant data respectively and then determine whether to instruct the execution of optional block based on the analysis of the resultant data.

To identify tasks that are responsive to the one or more common events omega engine can e.g. compare a set of reference thresholds representing escalating human physiology danger levels against each of the acceleration spikes respectively to determine a corresponding danger level. Based on the identified danger level omega engine can determine for each node one or more tasks that are appropriate to the corresponding danger level.

More particularly can regarded as illustrating an example of how to operate alpha engine of UE or the separate analytical unit of UE discussed above albeit not illustrated .

Overall the flowchart of can be regarded as a loop. As a general design consideration no loop should be infinite i.e. inescapable. Accordingly flow in starts at block and proceeds to decision block where alpha engine decides if any exit criteria have been satisfied. If the decision is yes one or more of the exit criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block and ends. If the decision is no none of the exit criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block .

At block alpha engine receives collected sensor data from multiple discretely mobile nodes e.g. instances of UE . Such nodes can be borne by users e.g. warriors in a war zone context rescuers in the context of a disaster response scenario etc. The collected data can include acceleration data regarding accelerations undergone by the nodes and thus undergone by the users on whom the nodes are borne respectively. Flow proceeds from block to block .

At block alpha engine organizes the data into groups according to the proximities of the corresponding nodes to one another. For example in the context of users that are warriors in a war zone such groups might correspond in size to a squad and or a platoon. From block flow proceeds to block where for each group alpha engine determines parameter specific ranges of values based on the corresponding data ranges that would be regarded as typical ranges of values for the corresponding parameter. From block flow proceeds to block where alpha engine recognizes within each group if there are one or more nodes exhibiting atypical collected data. From block flow proceeds to block where alpha engine adaptively instructs within each group at least one of the nodes to execute one or more tasks that are responsive to the determination of atypical data. From block flow proceeds back to block .

For example tasks that are responsive to the one or more common events can include one or more of a first task as illustrated by optional block a second task as illustrated by optional block and a third task as illustrated by optional block . Blocks correspond to blocks respectively. For the sake of brevity and in light of the noted correspondence little in the way of further discussion of blocks is provided. Alpha engine might for example initially instruct the execution of the tasks of optional block and or receive the resultant data respectively and then determine whether to instruct the execution of the task of optional block based on the analysis of the resultant data.

To identify tasks that are responsive to the determination of atypical data omega engine can e.g. compare a set of reference thresholds representing escalating human physiology danger levels against each of the acceleration spikes respectively to determine a corresponding danger level. Based on the identified danger level omega engine can determine for each node one or more tasks that are appropriate to the corresponding danger level.

More particularly can regarded as illustrating an example of how to operate alpha engine of UE or the separate analytical unit of UE discussed above albeit not illustrated .

Overall the flowchart of can be regarded as a loop. As a general design consideration no loop should be infinite i.e. inescapable. Accordingly flow in starts at block and proceeds to decision block where alpha engine decides if any exit criteria have been satisfied. If the decision is yes one or more of the exit criteria are satisfied then flow proceeds to block and ends. If the decision is no none of the exit criteria has been satisfied then flow proceeds to block .

At block alpha engine receives collected sensor data from one of the discretely mobile nodes e.g. an instance of UE . Such nodes can be borne by users e.g. warriors in a war zone context rescuers in the context of a disaster response scenario etc. More particularly rather that occupy a hand in order to hold the nodes e.g. warriors in warriors in a war zone context and rescuers in the context of a disaster response scenario typically wear holsters for the nodes and elect to holster the nodes therein .

The collected data can include motion data e.g. acceleration data position data etc. regarding motion undergone by the nodes. When the nodes are holstered it is reasonable to regard the motion undergone by the nodes as having been undergone by the users on whom the nodes are borne respectively. Accordingly the collected data can further include the holstering statuses of the nodes respectively. That is the holstering status e.g. a flag in memory is an indication of whether the node is in a state of being holstered i.e. disposed in the holster or in a state of being out the holster. Flow proceeds from block to decision block .

At decision block alpha engine decides if the node is holstered. If the decision is no the node is not holstered then flow proceeds to block and ends. If the decision is yes the node is holstered then flow proceeds to block .

At block alpha engine analyzes the motion data of the holstered node according e.g. to human physiology constraints. For example alpha engine can compare a set of reference thresholds representing escalating human physiology danger levels against the acceleration data respectively to determine a corresponding danger level.

Also at block alpha engine can execute optional blocks . Flow entering block can proceed to optional block where alpha engine recognizes that the node moved to a position P after it underwent an acceleration event. Flow proceeds from optional block to optional block where alpha engine analyzes data sampled during the elapse of a recovery interval in which a typical user might be expected to recover from an acceleration event. Flow proceeds from optional block to optional decision block where alpha engine decides if the node has moved a non negligible distance away from position P e.g. to another position P that is a significant distance away from P. In other words alpha engine decides if the node has undergone substantially no motion relative to position P.

If the decision at optional decision block is no the node has not moved away from position P then flow proceeds to optional block where alpha engine infers that the health of the node s user is substantially deteriorated. From optional block flow can exit block and proceed to block .

If the decision at optional decision block is yes the node has moved a significant distance away from position P then flow can proceed to optional block where alpha engine continues to investigate the health of the node s user. From optional block flow also can exit block and proceed to block .

At block alpha engine adaptively instructs the node to execute one or more tasks that are responsive to the analysis of block . From block flow proceeds back to block . For example tasks that are responsive to the analysis of block can include one or more of a first task as illustrated by optional block a second task as illustrated by optional block and a third task as illustrated by optional block . Blocks correspond to blocks respectively. For the sake of brevity and in light of the noted correspondence little in the way of further discussion of blocks is provided. Alpha engine might for example initially instruct the execution of the tasks of optional block and or receive the resultant data respectively and then determine whether to instruct the execution of the task of optional block based on the analysis of the resultant data.

To identify tasks that are responsive to the analysis of block omega engine can e.g. compare a set of reference thresholds representing escalating human physiology danger levels against each of the acceleration spikes respectively to determine a corresponding danger level. Based on the identified danger level omega engine can determine for each node one or more tasks that are appropriate to the corresponding danger level.

As will be discussed in terms of omega engine and alpha engine exhibit a client server relationship. More particularly omega engine and alpha engine exhibit a specific type of client server relationship namely a taskee client taskor server i.e. they relate as taskee client and taskor server respectively. Omega engine is a client that requests alpha engine to serve tasks to it i.e. to provide it with tasks which either omega engine collection engine or another component of UE will perform. As such omega engine is a taskee hence omega engine is referred to as a taskee client. As the entity that assigns tasks to another entity i.e. that is a taskor alpha engine is referred to as a taskor server.

As a taskee client omega engine is further configured to query the taskor server alpha engine for an unspecified one amongst a plurality of predetermined tasks with a consequent selection of a given one from amongst the plurality tasks being an action performed by the taskor server alpha engine receive an indication of the given task from the taskor server alpha engine facilitate execution of the given task on UE e.g. via collection engine and report execution results of the given task to the taskor server alpha engine .

As a taskor server alpha engine is further configured to receive a query from the taskee client omega engine for an unspecified one amongst the plurality of tasks make a selection of a given one from amongst the plurality of predetermined tasks indicate the selected task to the taskee client omega engine and receive a report including execution results for the selected task from the taskee client omega engine .

In flow proceeds through four phases a wait poll interval phase a connection phase an identification phase and a task query and delegation phase . Beginning with wait poll interval phase at block the taskee client omega engine waits while a connection interval elapses. Flow proceeds from block to block thereby entering connection phase . At block the taskee client omega engine initiates and establishes a communication session with the taskor server alpha engine .

Flow proceeds from block to block thereby entering identification phase . At block the taskee client omega engine transmits profile information and a current state of UE to the taskor server alpha engine . Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskor server alpha engine receives the profile and current state information regarding taskee client omega engine and stores the same in memory e.g. memory . Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskor server alpha engine sends a transmission acknowledgment ACK to the taskee client omega engine . Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskee client omega engine receives the transmission acknowledgment ACK from the taskor server alpha engine .

Flow proceeds from block to block thereby entering task query and delegation phase . At block the taskee client omega engine queries the taskor server alpha engine for an unspecified one amongst a plurality of predetermined tasks. Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskor server alpha engine receives the query. Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskor server alpha engine determines what actions should be executed e.g. are scheduled to be executed and or are desirable under the current circumstances by UE at this time. Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskor server alpha engine builds an action request message i.e. a task and returns sends the task to the taskee client omega engine . Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskee client omega engine evaluates the task for which it is the taskee.

Flow proceeds from block to decision block where the taskee client omega engine decides if the appropriate action for execution of the task is to do nothing. If the outcome of decision block is yes then flow proceeds from decision block and loops back to block thereby reentering wait poll interval phase . But if the outcome of decision block is no then flow proceeds from decision block to block where the taskee client omega engine dispatches one or more requests to one or more amongst a plurality of handling objects on UE that are appropriate for carrying out the execution of the task. Upon completion of the task by the one or more handling objects the taskee client omega engine sends a task completion message including a set of results if any to the taskor server alpha engine . Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskor server alpha engine receives the task completion message including the set of results if any .

Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskor server alpha engine sends a transmission acknowledgment ACK to the taskee client omega engine . Flow proceeds from block to block where the taskee client omega engine receives the transmission acknowledgment ACK from the taskor server alpha engine . Flow proceeds from block and loops back to block .

Illustrated in are examples of possible states of the taskee client omega engine as it operates to request and execute tasks from the taskor server alpha engine .

The present invention is not limited to the particular embodiments illustrated in the drawings and described above in detail. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other arrangements could be devised. The present invention encompasses every possible combination of the various features of each embodiment disclosed. One or more of the elements described herein with respect to various embodiments can be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner than explicitly described or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application While the present invention has been described with reference to specific illustrative embodiments modifications and variations of the present invention may be constructed without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

While the present invention has been described in the context of methods of operating mobile parameter sensing nodes connectable via wireless connections to a remote host those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanism of the present invention is capable of being implemented and distributed in the form of a computer usable medium in a variety of forms containing computer executable instructions and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of computer usable medium which is used to carry out the distribution. An exemplary computer usable medium is coupled to a computer such the computer can read information including the computer executable instructions therefrom and optionally write information thereto. Alternatively the computer usable medium may be integral to the computer. When the computer executable instructions are loaded into and executed by the computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. For example when the computer executable instructions are loaded into and executed by a general purpose computer the general purpose computer becomes configured thereby into a special purpose computer. Examples of suitable computer usable media include volatile memory such as random access memory RAM nonvolatile hard coded or programmable type media such as read only memories ROMs or erasable electrically programmable read only memories EEPROMs recordable type and or re recordable media such as floppy disks hard disk drives compact discs CDs digital versatile discs DVDs etc. and transmission type media e.g. digital and or analog communications links such as those based on electrical current conductors light conductors and or electromagnetic radiation.

Although the present invention has been described in detail those skilled in the art will understand that various changes substitutions variations enhancements nuances gradations lesser forms alterations revisions improvements and knock offs of the invention disclosed herein may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention in its broadest form.

