---

title: Method and device for application installation to multiple memory components
abstract: A method and device for installing an application to a device are provided. The method includes: receiving, at the device, application files associated with the application, the application files including computer readable instruction files and resource files; installing, by an installation manager, the computer readable instruction files to a first memory component associated with the device; and storing the resource files on a second memory component associated with the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471296&OS=09471296&RS=09471296
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09471296
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150108
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 796 703 filed on Jun. 6 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 954 954 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 329 849 filed on Apr. 30 2010. The contents of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to installation managers and more particularly to methods and systems for installing applications for use on an electronic device.

Mobile electronic devices typically have limited application memory available for storage. This application memory may be occupied for example by data such as service data including information required by the mobile electronic device to establish and maintain communication with a wireless network user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information.

The application memory may also have applications stored thereon such as for example instant messaging applications email applications word processing applications media player applications games etc. Some of these applications may be loaded by the manufacturer of the device or a service provider associated with the device. In other cases the applications may be loaded onto the device by the user.

Due to the limited amount of memory available the mobile electronic device may run out of application memory. A user may wish to install an application to a device which does not have sufficient application memory to support such an application.

In one aspect the present application provides a method of installing an application to a device. The method includes receiving at the device application files associated with the application the application files including computer readable instruction files and resource files installing by an installation manager the computer readable instruction files to a first memory component associated with the device and storing the resource files on a second memory component associated with the device.

In another aspect the present application provides an electronic device. The electronic device includes a first memory component and at least one second memory component. The electronic device includes at least one processor configured to receive application files associated with an application the application files including computer readable instruction files and resource files install the computer readable instruction files to the first memory component and store the resource files on the second memory component.

In another aspect the present application provides a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having encoded thereon computer executable instructions the computer executable instructions comprising computer executable instructions for receiving at the device application files associated with the application the application files including computer readable instruction files and resource files computer executable instructions for installing by an installation manager the computer readable instruction files to a first memory component associated with the device and computer executable instructions for storing the resource files on a second memory component associated with the device.

Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a mobile electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The mobile electronic device may in various example embodiments also be referred to as a wireless device a mobile communication device an electronic device and or a device . In the example embodiment shown the mobile electronic device is a two way mobile communication device having data and possibly also voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile electronic device in various example embodiments the device may be a data communication device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem. It will be appreciated that in some example embodiments the systems and methods presented herein may be applied to an electronic device that does not necessarily have communication capabilities such as for example a PDA which is not enabled for communication.

The mobile electronic device includes at least one controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile electronic device and a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network . The processor interacts with the communication subsystem which performs communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems. In some example embodiments the device may include a touchscreen display which includes a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen with a touch sensitive input surface or overlay connected to an electronic controller . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller . The touch sensitive overlay acts as an input mechanism allowing the user of the device to input commands to the processor . In other example embodiments the display may not be a touchscreen display. Instead the device may simply include a non touch display and one or more other input mechanisms such as for example a depressible scroll wheel track pad joy stick or track ball. In some example embodiments the device may have a touchscreen display and also other input mechanisms .

The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone input mechanisms switch short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the mobile electronic device is intended to operate.

The mobile electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after a network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in a first memory component which in some example embodiments is an application memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software local applications which in some example embodiments may include an application store client for requesting and receiving software applications from an application delivery server not shown . The application delivery server is a remote server which may be accessible through the network from which the device may purchase and receive applications. In some example embodiments the application store client may be configured to wirelessly download applications from the application delivery server for installation onto the device . The application store client may interface with the application delivery server to provide the function of an application delivery store which allows a device or a user of the device to purchase and download applications for use on the device .

In some example embodiments the application store client may also interface with the application delivery server to provide remote storage capabilities to the device . The application delivery server may track application purchases and or downloads and may allow the device to download applications which were previously purchased and or downloaded. That is the application delivery server may function as a rights management server to maintain a database which tracks applications which a device and or user have rights to. Rights to an application may be obtained in some example embodiments as a result of a previous purchase of that application. In some example embodiments rights may be obtained as a result of a previous download of that application. The application delivery server may interact with the application store client to permit a device to download an application to that that device if the device and or the user of the device have rights to that application .

The application store client permits users of the mobile electronic device to connect to the application delivery server through the communication subsystem and to browse or search for applications available for download to the mobile electronic device . A user of the mobile electronic device may request the download of an application from the application delivery server by interacting with the application store client on the mobile device for example by engaging the touchscreen display or other input mechanism .

The software modules also include an installation manager module for installing applications on the device . As will be explained in greater detail below in some example embodiments the installation manager module which may also be referred to as an installer installer module or installation manager is configured to install an application to the device . That is the installation manager module is configured to receive application files associated with an application and to install those application files to the device . The application files may include computer readable instructions such as executable files or code. The computer readable instructions may be contained in computer readable instruction files. The application files may also include resource files such as image files video files and or audio files. Resource files are non executable files which may be referenced by the computer readable instructions such as the executable code to provide additional features or functionality to applications . Resource files are used by an application at run time of the computer readable instructions. Resource files are in at least some example embodiments called by the computer readable instructions to provide graphical user interface features for the application. By way of example in some embodiments the application may be a game. In such embodiments the resource files may include graphic files which are rendered on the device at run time of the application.

In some example embodiments an application including the application files may be received from an application delivery server not shown though the application store client . After receipt of the application the installation manager module may install the application to the device . The installation of the application to the device may in some example embodiments occur automatically. That is when an application is received at the device the device may be configured to automatically install the application to the device.

In some example embodiments the installation manager module may install complete applications to the first memory component which in the embodiment illustrated is the application memory . For example in the application store client is installed completely to the first memory component. An application which is installed completely to the first memory component is an application having application files which are all installed to the first memory component. For example an application having computer readable instructions and resource files is installed completely to the first memory component if the computer readable instructions such as for example executable files or code and resource files such as for example image files video files and or audio files are both installed to the first memory component.

As will be explained in greater detail below the installation manager module is configured to split the installation of at least some applications . The installation manager module may split the installation by storing application files associated with the application in two or more different physical memory components associated with the device . For example in some example embodiments applications may be comprised of computer readable instructions such as for example executable files or code and resource files such as for example image files video files and or audio files . The installation manager module may be configured to install the computer readable instructions to a first memory component such as the application memory . The installation manager module may be configured to install the resource files to a second memory component such as storage memory . In at least some example embodiments the operating system associated with the device is configured to allow for the execution of computer readable instructions stored on the first memory component. However in at least some example embodiments the operating system associated with the device is configured to not allow the execution of computer readable instructions stored on the second memory component.

In the example embodiment shown the installation manager module is illustrated as being provided by the application store client . It will be appreciated that the installation manager module may in other example embodiments be a stand alone component that is operationally separate from the application store client . In further example embodiments the installation manager module may be provided in whole or in part by the operating system software itself. Accordingly the application store client and the installation manager module may among other things be implemented through stand alone software applications or combined together in one or more of the operating system and other local applications . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules in the application memory or other first memory component or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The local software applications may also include a range of other applications including for example an address book application a messaging application a calendar application and or a notepad application. In some example embodiments the local software applications include an email message application a push content viewing application a voice communication i.e. telephony application a map application and a media player application. Each of the local software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display device according to the application.

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile electronic device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . The auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback e.g. touch feedback .

The mobile electronic device also includes a second memory component such as the storage memory . The storage memory is a memory component or an area of memory from which the operating system is not configured to run software modules directly. Storage memory i.e. the second memory component differs from application memory i.e. the first memory component in that the operating system is configured to execute applications or computer readable instructions directly from the application memory while it cannot execute applications or computer readable instructions directly from the storage memory .

As will be explained in greater detail below resource files may be stored on the storage memory and used as needed by the computer readable instructions on the application memory .

The storage memory may in various example embodiments be comprised of a removable memory card typically comprising flash memory such as for example a Secure Digital SD mini Secure Digital miniSD micro Secure Digital microSD or CompactFlash card. In some example embodiments the storage memory may be comprised of an internal non removable memory which is designated by the operating system as storage memory and not application memory . For example the storage memory may be e MMC memory. The storage memory is inserted in or connected to a storage memory interface of the mobile electronic device .

The storage memory and or the application memory may also store other data . In various example embodiments the other data may include service data including information required by the mobile electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile electronic device by its user and other data.

The serial data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

Applications may in some example embodiments be received through the data port . For example in some embodiments applications may be received through the data port from a host computer connected to the data port . Applications received through the data port may be installed on the device by the installation manager module in the manner described in this disclosure. That is in at least some example embodiments the installation manager module receiving the application may perform a split installation of the application by installing at least one application file such as the computer readable instructions associated with the application to a first memory component such as the application memory and by installing at least one application file such as the resource files associated with the application to a second memory component such as the storage memory . The first memory component and the second memory component are physically distinct memory components. That is the first memory component and the second memory component are not the same memory components.

In some example embodiments the mobile electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the mobile electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The mobile electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile electronic device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and or voice communication applications will in some example embodiments be installed on the mobile electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem other wireless communication interfaces. The downloaded applications may be permanently installed for example written into the application memory i.e. the flash memory and or the storage memory .

The mobile electronic device may in some example embodiments provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email message application and output to the display . A user of the mobile electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the touch sensitive overlay in conjunction with the display device and possibly the control buttons and or the auxiliary I O subsystems . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example mobile electronic device in which example embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied. The mobile electronic device includes a housing for housing at least some of the components of the device identified in . The housing is configured to be held or cradleable in a user s hand while the mobile electronic device is in use. The touchscreen display is mounted within a front face of the housing so that the housing frames the touchscreen display and exposes a portion of it for user interaction therewith. In the shown example embodiments of the housing and device is elongate having a length defined between top and bottom ends longer than a width defined between left and right sides . Other device dimensions and form factors are also possible.

In some devices the operating system is configured to run local applications which are the applications installed to and stored within the application memory . The operating system is also configured to run applications having computer readable instructions stored in application memory . The operating system is not configured to run applications which are fully stored in other places apart from the application memory such as for example the storage memory . The operating system is not configured to run applications which do not have computer readable instructions or complete local applications stored on the application memory . That is the operating system may require that at least some components of applications such as the computer readable instructions be installed on application memory for those applications to be run from the device . In order to maximize the use of the limited application memory the installation manager module may for at least some applications install only the computer readable instructions to the application memory . Other resource files associated with an application such as image files video files and or audio files may be stored on storage memory and retrieved by the computer readable instructions as required.

An overview having been provided reference will now made to the flowcharts of . The mobile electronic device may be configured to perform one or more of the methods illustrated in these flowcharts. More specifically one or more controller of the device such as the processor may be configured to execute the steps of any one or more of the methods of . In some example embodiments the installation manager module may contain instructions for the processor for executing one or more of the methods of . In the following discussion of the methods of all reference numerals which relate to device components as opposed to steps of a process or method such as the processor or the application memory refer to device components of .

Referring first to a method for installing an application to the mobile electronic device in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated.

At step an application is received at the device . The application may be received for example through the application store client . More particularly the application may be transmitted by an application delivery server not shown to the device and received at the application store client . The application may in some example embodiments be received wirelessly at the device from the application delivery server. The received application includes one or more application files. The application files are comprised of computer readable instructions and in some example embodiments one or more resource files . The resource files are non executable files such as image files video files and or audio files which are referenced by the computer readable instructions.

In some example embodiments in response to receiving the application at step the installation manager module may initiate installation of the application.

At step after the application is received at the device the application may be installed to the device by the installation manager module . The step of installing the application to the device includes a step of installing computer readable instructions associated with the application to the first memory component of the device such as the application memory of the device and a step of installing one or more resource files associated with the application to the second memory component associated with the device such as the storage memory .

The step of installing the computer readable instructions to the application memory includes storing computer readable instructions associated with the application on the first memory component which is in the example shown the application memory . The step may also include one or more of the following steps extracting files such as the computer readable instructions from a compressed installation file registering files such as the computer readable instructions in an operating system and or a system registry adding a link to the computer readable instructions to a user interface screen associated with the device such as a menu screen which may be in the form of an icon grid array. The step of installing computer readable instructions to the application memory may also include other sub steps which are not specifically discussed above.

The step of installing one or more resource files associated with the application to a second memory component such as the storage memory includes storing one or more resource files on the second memory component such as the storage memory . The step may also include a step of extracting the one or more resource files from a compressed file. The step of installing one or more resource files may also include other sub steps which are not specifically discussed above.

While in the example embodiment described above. the receipt of an application acts as a trigger condition to initiate installation of the application on the device in other example embodiments other trigger conditions may be used to initiate installation of the application. For example in one example embodiment installation of the application on the device may be initiated in response to a user generated input received through an input mechanism . That is a user of the device may interact with an input mechanism to input a command to install the application to the device . For example a user may select an install application icon or element displayed on the display or another suitably named icon or element in order to initiate the installation of the application on the device .

Referring now to a further method for installing an application to the mobile electronic device in accordance with an example embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. In the method of the installation manager module is configured to provide location information to the computer readable instructions to inform the computer readable instructions of the location at which the resource files have been stored.

The method of is similar to the method of . The method includes the step of receiving the application at the device . The step of receiving the application at the device is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

In response to the receipt of the application at the device or in response to another trigger condition such as for example a user generated input the installation manager module may initiate installation of the application.

Next at step after the application is received at the device the application may be installed to the device by the installation manager module . The step of installing the application to the device includes a step of installing computer readable instructions associated with the application to a first memory component of the device such as the application memory of the device and a step of installing one or more resource files associated with the application to a second memory component associated with the device such as the storage memory . The step of installing the application to the device also includes a step of passing a location of one or more resource files to the computer readable instructions on the first memory component i.e. the application memory .

The step of installing the computer readable instructions is discussed in greater detail above with reference to . The step of installing one or more resource files is also discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

At the step of installing the one or more resource files one or more resource files are stored on a second memory component which is in at least some example embodiments the storage memory . The one or more resource files are stored at a location on the second memory component which is determined by the installation manager module . The location may be a folder directory catalogue drawer virtual container or other memory location reference. The location may be determined according to one or more predetermined rules associated with the installation manager module and or the specific application.

In some embodiments an example of which will be discussed below with reference to there may be more than one second memory component associated with the device . For example the device may have a non removable second memory component and also a removable second memory component. In such embodiments the installation manager module may be configured to select one of the second memory components and to store the resource files on the selected second memory components.

Accordingly as noted above the installation manager may at step determine the location at which to store the resource files. As also noted above the installation manager may in some example embodiments select which second memory component to use and may in some example embodiments determine the location on the selected second memory component to store the files. In such embodiments at step the installation manager may provide location information to the computer readable instructions to inform the computer readable instructions of the location at which the resource files are stored. The location information may include an identifier of the second memory component on which the resource files are stored. The location information may also include an identifier of a specific location on that second memory component where the resource files have been stored. For example the location information may specify a folder directory catalogue drawer virtual container or other memory location reference.

The location information may be provided to the computer readable instructions in the form of a parameter. That is the location information may be passed as a parameter to the computer readable instructions . The location information may be stored on the first memory component which is in some example embodiments the application memory by the installation manager module or in some example embodiments by the computer readable instructions .

While illustrates an example embodiment in which the installation manager module is configured to pass the location information to the computer readable instructions in another example embodiment the computer readable instructions may be configured to independently determine the location of the one or more resource files. In such embodiments the computer readable instructions may include an algorithm for determining the location of the resource files. The algorithm which is included in the computer readable instructions may be the same algorithm which is used by the installation manager module at step for determining a location to store the resource files. Since the computer readable instructions include the same algorithm for determining the location of the resource files as the installation manager module the computer readable instructions may execute the algorithm to determine where the resource files are located.

Referring now to a further method for installing an application to the mobile electronic device in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. The method of may be implemented in example embodiments where the device may be associated with two or more second memory components. For example in some embodiments the device may have two second memory components such as a non removable second memory component which may also be referred to as an internal memory component and a removable second memory component which may also be referred to as an external memory component . The installation manager module may prioritize the memory components and store the one or more resource files on the highest priority second memory component which is available.

In some example embodiments the priorities associated with the second memory components or a method for determining the priorities may be pre programmed into the installation manager module . For example the installation manager module in some embodiments is pre configured to assign a removable second memory component a lower priority than a non removable second memory component. In other example embodiments the priorities may be set by a user of the device or by a system administrator associated with the device .

The method of is similar to the method of . The method includes the step of receiving the application at the device . The step of receiving the application at the device is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

In response to the receipt of the application at the device or in response to another trigger condition such as for example a user generated input the installation manager module may initiate installation of the application.

Next at step after the application is received at the device the application may be installed to the device by the installation manager module . The step of installing the application to the device includes a step of installing computer readable instructions associated with the application to a first memory component of the device such as the application memory of the device . The step of installing the computer readable instructions is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

Next at steps the installation manager module may be configured to determine whether a first priority second memory component is available. That is the installation manager module may determine whether a second memory component which is assigned the highest priority is available. The determination of availability may in some example embodiments be made based on the size of the one or more resource files associated with the application and the free space which is available on the second memory component. In some example embodiments the installation manager module may determine that the first priority second memory component is not available if the installation manager module determines that the mathematical difference between the free space on the first priority second memory component and the size of the one or more resource file s is less than a predetermined threshold.

In some example embodiments the predetermined threshold is zero. That is the installation manager module determines that the first priority second memory component is available if there is sufficient free space on the first priority second memory component to store the one or more resource files. If there is not sufficient free space to store the one or more resource files the installation manager module determines that the first priority second memory component is not available.

In other example embodiments the predetermined threshold used in the determination step may be greater than zero. That is the installation manager module determines that the first priority second memory component is not available if storing the one or more resource files on the first priority second memory component would result in the free space on the memory falling below a predetermined threshold which is greater than zero. If storing the one or more resource files on the first priority second memory component would not result in the free space on the memory falling below the predetermined threshold then the installation manager module determines that the first priority second memory component is available. Otherwise the installation manager module may determine that the first priority second memory component is not available.

Next at step if it is determined that the first priority second memory component is available the one or more resource files are installed to the first priority second memory component. The step is similar to the step of and is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

If however the first priority second memory component is not available as determined at step the installation manager module may at step determine whether a second priority second memory component is available. That is the installation manager module may determine whether a second memory component which is assigned the second priority is available. The step of determining whether the second priority second memory component is available is similar to the step of determining whether a first priority second memory component is available except in that the step is performed on the second priority second memory component while the step is performed on the first priority second memory component.

The determination of availability may be made based on the size of the one or more resource files associated with the application and the free space which is available on the second priority second memory component. In some example embodiments the installation manager module may determine that the second priority second memory component is not available if the installation manager module determines that the mathematical difference between the free space on the second priority second memory component and the size of the one or more resource file s is less than a predetermined threshold.

In some example embodiments the predetermined threshold in step is zero. That is the installation manager module determines that the second priority second memory component is available if there is sufficient free space on the second priority second memory component to store the one or more resource files. If there is not sufficient free space to store the one or more resource files the installation manager module determines that the second priority second memory component is not available.

In other example embodiments the predetermined threshold used in the determination step may be greater than zero. That is the installation manager module determines that the second priority second memory component is not available if storing the one or more resource files on the second priority second memory component would result in the free space on the memory falling below a predetermined threshold which is greater than zero. If storing the one or more resource files on the second priority second memory component would not result in the free space on the memory falling below the predetermined threshold then the installation manager module determines that the second priority second memory component is available. Otherwise the installation manager module may determine that the second priority second memory component is not available.

The predetermined thresholds used in the step of determining whether the first priority second memory component is available and the step of determining whether the second priority second memory component is available are in some example embodiments the same for each of these steps . However in other example embodiments the thresholds may be different. In some example embodiments the threshold used in the step of determining whether the second priority second memory component is available is less than the threshold used in the step of determining whether the first priority second memory component is available.

Next at step if it is determined that the second priority second memory component is available the one or more resource files are installed to the second priority second memory component. The step is similar to the step of and is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

If at step it is determined that the second priority second memory component is not available in some example embodiments an installation error may be produced by the installation manager module on the display associated with the device at step .

In other example embodiments not shown there may be more than two second memory components associated with the device. In such embodiments the installation manager module may continue to determine whether a second memory component of a next lower priority i.e. a third priority followed by a fourth priority etc. is available. If such a second memory component is available the installation manager module may store the resource files on that second memory component.

Following the installation of the resource files to one of the second memory components at steps or at step the installation manager module may provide location information to the computer readable instructions to inform the computer readable instructions of the location at which the resource files are stored. The location information may include an identifier of the second memory component on which the resource files are stored. The location information may also include an identifier of a specific location on that second memory component where the resource files have been stored. For example the location information may specify a folder directory catalogue drawer virtual container or other memory location reference. Step is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

Referring now to a further method for installing an application to the mobile electronic device in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated.

In the method of the installation manager module is configured to determine whether the installation of an application should be split onto two different memory components or whether the application should be installed entirely to a single memory component.

The method of is similar to the method of . The method includes the step of receiving the application at the device . The step of receiving the application at the device is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

In response to the receipt of the application at the device or in response to another trigger condition such as for example user generated input received via the input mechanism the installation manager module may initiate installation of the application.

Next at step the installation manager module determines whether the installation of the application should be split onto more than one memory component or whether the application should be installed to a single memory component.

In some example embodiments at step the installation manager module may determine whether the size of the one or more resource files associated with the application is greater than a predetermined threshold. If the size is greater than the predetermined threshold the installation manager module may determine that a split installation is required. If the size is less than the threshold the installation manager module may determine that split installation is not required. Such example embodiments permit the installation manager module to determine whether a split installation should be performed based on the size of the one or more resource files. Where the resource files are too large the installation manager module may split the installation.

In some example embodiments at step the installation manager module may determine whether a first memory component which is in some example embodiments the application memory has sufficient free space for the application to be installed in full on the first memory component. In some example embodiments the installation manager module may determine that the first memory component does not have sufficient free space if the installation manager module determines that the mathematical difference between the free space on the first memory component and the size of the one or more resource file s or the application files is less than a predetermined threshold.

In some example embodiments the predetermined threshold is zero. That is the installation manager module determines that the first memory component has sufficient free space available if the free space on the first memory component is able to store the one or more resource files and or the application files. If there is not sufficient free space to store the one or more resource files and or the application files the installation manager module determines that the first memory component is not available.

In other example embodiments the predetermined threshold used in the determination step may be greater than zero. That is the installation manager module determines that the first memory component is not available if storing the one or more resource files and or the application files on the first memory component would result in the free space on the first memory component falling below a predetermined threshold. If storing the one or more resource files and or the application files on the first memory component would not result in the free space on the first memory component falling below the predetermined threshold then the installation manager module determines that the first memory component does not have sufficient free space.

If the installation manager determines that the first memory component i.e. the application memory does not have sufficient free space then it may determine that the installation of the application should be split onto more than one memory component.

In some example embodiments at step the determination regarding whether the installation of the application should be split onto multiple memory components is made based on user generated input received via an input mechanism associated with the device . That is a user may force the installation manager module to either split the installation onto multiple memory components or to install the application onto a single memory component.

In some example embodiments at step the installation manager module determines whether the installation should be split onto two memory components by consulting an installation type identifier which is associated with the application. The installation type identifier indicates whether the installation of the application should be split. The installation type identifier may be received with the application at step . The installation type identifier acts as an instruction to the installation manager module to instruct the installation manager module regarding whether the installation should be split. The installation type identifier permits a developer of an application to provide instructions to the installation manager module to instruct the installation manager module regarding whether the installation of the application should be split.

If the installation type identifier indicates that the installation of the application should be split the installation manager module may determine at step that the installation should be split. If however the installation type identifier indicates that the installation of the application should not be split then the installation manager module may determine at step that the installation should not be split.

In some example embodiments at step the installation manager module determines whether the installation should be split onto two memory components based on the format of the application received at step . In some example embodiments if the application is received in a format in which the computer readable instructions are separated from the resource files then the installation manager module may determine that the installation should be split onto multiple memory components.

If the installation manager module determines that the installation should be split then the method proceeds to step where the application is installed to multiple memory components. The step may be the step from any one of .

If however the installation manager module determines that the installation should not be split then the installation manager module at step installs the application in full to the first memory component which is in at least some example embodiments the application memory .

The step of installing the application includes storing computer readable instructions associated with the application on the first memory component i.e. the application memory . The step may also include any combination of the following steps extracting files such as the computer readable instructions and or resource files from a compressed installation file registering files such as the computer readable instructions in an operating system and or a system registry adding a link to the computer readable instructions to a user interface screen associated with the device such as a menu screen which may be in the form of an icon grid array and storing the resource files on the first memory component i.e. the application memory . The step of installing computer readable instructions to the application memory may also include other sub steps which are not specifically discussed above.

It will be appreciated that the methods may be varied and that steps may be added or removed from these methods . It will be further appreciated that in some example embodiments steps from two or more of these methods may be combined in order to provide an embodiment which includes functions or features of two or more of these methods .

It will also be appreciated that while . illustrates an example embodiment where the installation manager module is separate from the application in some example embodiments the installation manager module may be provided in whole or in part in an application. That is each application may be delivered together with its own installation manager module which is configured to perform the methods described herein.

In accordance with further example embodiments of the present disclosure there are provided a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions comprising instructions for practising the methods of the present disclosure.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

While the present disclosure is primarily described as a method a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to various apparatus such as a mobile electronic device for carrying out at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods and including components for performing at least some of the described method steps be it by way of hardware components a computer programmed by appropriate software to enable the practice of the disclosed method by any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the disclosed method. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present disclosure.

The embodiments of the present disclosure described above are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may affect alterations modifications and variations to the particular example embodiments without departing from the intended scope of the present disclosure. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to create alternate embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternate embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present disclosure as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

