---

title: Infrared detector device inspection system
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for identifying carrier lifetimes are disclosed herein. In a general embodiment, a beam of light is sent to a group of locations on a material for an optical device. Photons emitted from the material are detected at each of the group of locations. A carrier lifetime is identified for each of the group of locations based on the photons detected from each of the group of locations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09410900&OS=09410900&RS=09410900
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09410900
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150417
---
This application is related to and claims the benefit of priority of provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 62 001 886 filed May 22 2014 entitled Carrier Lifetime Mapping Measurement for Infrared Detectors which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to sensors and in particular to a method and apparatus for inspecting infrared sensors. Still more particularly the present disclosure relates to a method and apparatus for inspecting materials for infrared sensors.

Optical detector devices are hardware that respond to light. For example an infrared focal plane array FPA is a type of infrared detector device that generates images using infrared light. These infrared detector devices include materials that generate signals when exposed to infrared light and circuits that process the signals.

The infrared focal plane array functions by absorbing photons in a material. The absorption of the photons results in signals being generated based on the carriers that are detected in the material. These signals are used to form images.

The photons absorbed in the material cause the formation of carriers in the material. Carriers are electron hole pairs. For example when a photon is absorbed in the material an electron in a valance band in the material may gain energy and jump to a conduction band leaving a hole in the valence band to form a carrier. These carriers may be detected to create signals used to form an image.

A circuit connected to the material detects a voltage caused by the carriers. Based on the detection of the voltage generated by the carriers signals may be generated by the circuit to form the image.

The carriers have a lifetime during which the carriers are present before recombination occurs. Recombination occurs when an electron fills the hole. For example collisions between at least two electrons in a conduction band may result in one of the electrons recombining in the valence band. This type of recombination is an auger recombination. Radiative recombination is another type of recombination that involves band to band recombination. The length of time during which a carrier exists before recombination is referred to as a carrier lifetime.

In some cases recombination may occur before the carriers can be detected and before the signals can be generated. The quality of the material may affect the ability of an optical sensor to generate signals in response to photons or thermal energy. Defects in the material used to detect photons may result in a recombination occurring quick enough such that a signal is not generated or the signal is not generated at a level that accurately reflects the presence of the carriers. This type of recombination is a Shockley Read Hall SRH recombination which is also referred to as a trap assisted recombination.

These inconsistencies in the material may be for example a defect a material impurity or some other undesired inconsistency. This type of recombination is undesirable because a signal is not generated indicating the detection of a photon. As a result the infrared detector device may not indicate as many detections of photons as desired.

As a result signals may be generated that are not caused by the absorption of photons by the material. Consequently the performance of an infrared detector device may suffer from this type of recombination.

The amount of Shockley Read Hall recombination that occurs depends on the quality of the material. The quality of the material may vary between infrared detector devices and within an infrared detector device.

The variance of the quality of materials may result in an undesired quality in the images generated by an infrared focal plane array. For example the inconsistencies in an infrared focal plane array may result in an undesired quality in a pixel or in hundreds of pixels depending on the size and location of the inconsistencies.

Inspections of the material for infrared focal plane arrays are performed. Defects in the material are often not readily identifiable however until the infrared focal plane array is fully fabricated and connected to circuits to read signals and generate images.

Testing at this stage of manufacturing for infrared focal plane arrays may be more expensive and time consuming than desired. For example if the images generated by an infrared focal plane array do not have a desired level of quality the infrared focal plane array may be discarded. At this point the cost and time to connect the circuits to the material has occurred. As a result new circuits are needed as well as another piece or chip of the material.

The large format of infrared focal plane arrays is very expensive and the production is generally of a low volume such as 10 devices or less. Thus it is desirable to know whether the quality of the material is suitable for use in an infrared focal plane array as soon as possible to avoid wasting resources on continuing manufacturing of an infrared focal plane array that has defects in the material for detecting photons.

Therefore it would be desirable to have a method and apparatus that take into account at least some of the issues discussed above as well as other possible issues. For example it would be desirable to have a method and apparatus for inspecting materials at a time in manufacturing that overcome the technical problem of wasting resources and time that occurs when infrared detector devices are currently tested.

Methods and apparatuses for identifying carrier lifetimes are disclosed herein. An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for identifying carrier lifetimes. A beam of light is sent to a group of locations on a material for an optical device. Photons emitted from the material are detected at each of the group of locations. A carrier lifetime is identified for each of the group of locations based on the photons detected from each of the group of locations.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides an apparatus comprising an inspection system. The inspection system sends a beam of light to a group of locations on a material for an optical device detects photons emitted from the material at each of the group of locations and identifies a carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations based on the photons detected from each of the group of locations.

Yet another embodiment of the present disclosure provides an inspection system comprising a test platform a light source a detector and an analyzer. The test platform is configured to hold a material for an optical device. The light source sends a beam of light to a group of locations on the material held by the test platform. The detector detects photons emitted from the material at each of the group of locations in response to the beam of light being sent to the group of locations. The analyzer identifies a carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations based on the photons detected from each of the group of locations and a simulation of the photons emitted from the material at each of the group of locations.

Still another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for inspecting a material for an infrared detection device. The material for the infrared detection device is placed into an interior of a vessel. A vacuum is applied to the vessel. The material is cooled to a temperature at which the infrared detection device incorporating the material operates. A laser beam is sent through a window in the vessel onto the material in the vessel to form a spot for the laser beam on the material. The spot is moved to locations on the material. Photons emitted from the material are detected at each of the locations to which the spot moves. A carrier lifetime is identified for each of the locations based on the photons detected from each of the locations and a simulation of the photons emitted from the material at each of the locations.

The features and functions can be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present disclosure or may be combined in yet other embodiments in which further details can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account one or more different considerations. For example the illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that testing a material that detects photons earlier during manufacturing may reduce the expense and time needed to manufacture infrared focal plane arrays or other infrared detector devices.

The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that inspecting a material that detects photons for an infrared detector device prior to attaching circuits to the material is desirable. If the material has undesired inconsistencies at a level that makes the material unsuitable for use in an infrared detector device then the material layer may be discarded without discarding the circuits and time taken to attach the circuits to the material and other manufacturing steps may be reduced or avoided.

The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that auger recombination and radiative recombination occur at rates that are intrinsic to the material being used for the detector. In other words the rate at which these two types of recombination occur is only based on the material and not based on other factors. As a result the lifetime of carriers based on these two types of recombination may be identified. These rates of recombination are referred to as recombination rates.

The illustrative embodiments also recognize and take into account that a trap assisted recombination occurs from inconsistencies in the material. In other words a trap assisted recombination is not based on the properties of the material itself. For example a trap assisted recombination occurs when a defect is present in the material rather than some intrinsic property of the material.

The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that the carrier lifetime of the material as a whole depends on the carrier lifetimes of carriers as affected by these three types of recombination mechanisms. The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that the rates of auger recombination and radiative recombination do not vary for a particular material used in an optical device.

The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that the rate of recombination caused by trap assisted recombination may vary at different locations in a material when defects are present. Thus the illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that the carrier lifetime for carriers that recombine from trap assisted recombination may be the dominant contributor to the overall lifetime of carriers in the material.

The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that radiative recombination results in a photon being emitted from the material. The illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that the emission of this photon may be used to inspect the material without connecting the material to circuits to generate signals from carriers.

For example the illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that when defects are absent in the material trap assisted recombination is substantially constant throughout the material. Consequently the photons emitted from the material by radiative recombination are also substantially consistent.

When defects are present the illustrative embodiments also recognize and take into account that trap assisted recombination may be higher in areas where defects are located. As a result the emission of photons in these locations may vary from other locations in the material where defects are not present.

Thus the illustrative embodiments provide a method and apparatus for identifying carrier lifetimes in a material for an optical device. In one illustrative example a method sends a beam of light to a group of locations on the material. Photons emitted from the material at each of the group of locations are detected. A carrier lifetime is identified for each of the group of locations based on the photons detected from each of the group of locations.

In this manner the detection of carriers using circuits attached to a material is not needed to inspect the material. Instead the photons emitted from the material may be used to identify carrier lifetimes for the material at different locations.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to an illustration of a block diagram of an inspection environment is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Inspection environment is an environment in which inspection system may perform an inspection of material . In the illustrative example material is a material that generates a response to light . For example material may be a photosensitive material that has a bandgap. In the illustrative examples the bandgap is a direct bandgap.

The bandgap is an energy range in the material where electron states cannot exist. The band gap represents the minimum energy difference between the top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band. The top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band however are not generally at the same value of the electron momentum. A direct band gap is present when the top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band occur at the same value of momentum.

This inspection of material may be used to determine the suitability of material for use in optical device . Optical device is a hardware device that responds to light . For example optical device may be for example infrared detector device . More specifically optical device may be infrared focal plane array .

In an illustrative example a number of different types of material may be used. For example material may be selected from one of mercury cadmium telluride MCT indium antimonide InSb indium arsenic antimonide InAsSb gallium indium arsenide InGaAs or some other suitable semiconductor that is sensitive to light in the form of infrared light when optical device is infrared detector device . As used herein a number of when used with reference to items means one or more items. For example a number of types of materials is one or more types of materials.

In this illustrative example inspection system performs an inspection of material to determine whether performance of material in response to light is suitable for use in optical device . Performance may not be as high as desired when defect is present in material . Defect may be for example at least one of an impurity a different element being present in material a break a crack a void an undesired lattice pattern or some other inconsistency in material .

As used herein the phrase at least one of when used with a list of items means different combinations of one or more of the listed items may be used and only one of each item in the list may be needed. In other words at least one of means any combination of items and number of items may be used from the list but not all of the items in the list are required. The item may be a particular object thing or a category.

For example without limitation at least one of item A item B or item C may include item A item A and item B or item B. This example also may include item A item B and item C or item B and item C. Of course any combinations of these items may be present. In some illustrative examples at least one of may be for example without limitation two of item A one of item B and ten of item C four of item B and seven of item C or other suitable combinations.

In operation inspection system generates beam of light with a group of characteristics . As depicted the number of characteristics includes at least one of duration intensity spot size wavelength or other suitable characteristics for light .

During operation inspection system sends beam of light to a group of locations on material . As used herein a group of when used with respect to items means one or more items. For example a group of locations is one or more of locations .

Inspection system detects photons emitted from material at each of the group of locations . As depicted inspection system identifies carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations to form a group of carrier lifetimes for material based on photons detected from each of the group of locations .

In the illustrative example inspection system detects photons emitted from material instead of detecting carriers that may be formed in material as part of inspecting material for suitability for use in optical device . As a result a circuit does not need to be connected to material to inspect material in identifying the presence of carriers and carrier lifetimes .

Thus in an illustrative example inspection system may be used to inspect material at an earlier point in time as compared to currently used inspection techniques. Currently used techniques are employed to read signals after circuits are connected to the material. With inspection system material may be inspected without connecting a circuit to material .

As a result the illustrative example provides a technical solution for inspecting materials at a time in manufacturing that overcomes the technical problem of wasting resources and time that occurs when infrared detector devices are currently tested. In this manner a technical effect occurs in which the manufacturing of optical devices may occur at a lower cost with less time or both at a lower cost and with less time.

With reference next to an illustration of a block diagram of an inspection system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. An illustration of one implementation for inspection system in is shown. In the illustrative examples the same reference numeral may be used in more than one figure. This reuse of a reference numeral in different figures represents the same element in the different figures.

In this illustrative example inspection system includes a number of different components. As depicted inspection system includes test platform light source detector and analyzer .

Test platform is a physical structure that holds material for inspection in this illustrative example. For example test platform may be vessel . Material may be placed into interior of vessel and held within interior for inspection.

In the illustrative example vessel may take various forms. As depicted vessel may be selected from one of a vacuum flask a Dewar flask a thermos a vacuum chamber a pressurized chamber or some other suitable structure.

As depicted material held by test platform may be in various structures part of various structures or form various structures. For example material may be located in a structure selected from one of a wafer a chip an infrared detector device an infrared focal plane array or some other structure that is placed into interior of vessel .

In the illustrative example light source is a hardware system that generates light that is directed onto material . For example light source may include at least one of a light generator optics fiber optic cables or other suitable components for generating light and directing light onto material .

In this illustrative example light source generates light with a group of characteristics that is suitable to cause the generation of carriers in material and the emission of photons . For example light source may generate beam of light as a beam of coherent light. More specifically beam of light may be a laser beam. Still more specifically beam of light may be pulsed for a duration of time when light is sent to material .

Beam of light may be directed by light source onto material located in interior of vessel through window in vessel . In this illustrative example photons are emitted from material when beam of light is directed onto material .

Also beam of light may be moved to locations on material . The movement of beam of light from location to location in locations results in photons being emitted from location to location in locations .

As depicted detector is a hardware system that detects photons emitted from locations on material . Detector may be implemented using at least one of an active pixel sensor a charge coupled device CCD a cryogenic detector a photoresistor or other suitable devices.

Detector generates data from detecting photons . In this particular example detector sends data to analyzer .

In the illustrative example analyzer identifies carrier lifetimes for locations based on data . In this manner analyzer identifies carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations based on photons detected from each of the group of locations .

In this illustrative example analyzer also may control the operation of at least one of light source or detector . Analyzer may be implemented in software hardware firmware or a combination thereof. When software is used the operations performed by analyzer may be implemented in program code configured to run on hardware such as a processor unit. When firmware is used the operations performed by analyzer may be implemented in program code and data and stored in persistent memory to run on a processor unit. When hardware is employed the hardware may include circuits that operate to perform the operations in analyzer .

In the illustrative examples the hardware may take the form of a circuit system an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device or some other suitable type of hardware configured to perform a number of operations. With a programmable logic device the device may be configured to perform the number of operations. The device may be reconfigured at a later time or may be permanently configured to perform the number of operations. Programmable logic devices include for example a programmable logic array programmable array logic a field programmable logic array a field programmable gate array and other suitable hardware devices. Additionally the processes may be implemented in organic components integrated with inorganic components and may be comprised entirely of organic components excluding a human being. For example the processes may be implemented as circuits in organic semiconductors.

In this illustrative example analyzer may be implemented in computer system . Computer system is a hardware system that includes one or more data processing systems. When more than one data processing system is present those data processing systems may be in communication with each other using a communications medium. The communications medium may be a network. The data processing systems may be selected from at least one of a computer a server computer a tablet or some other suitable data processing system.

With reference now to an illustration of a block diagram of a process for identifying carrier lifetimes is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this illustrative example analyzer receives data about photons detected by detector .

In this illustrative example analyzer identifies carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations based on photons detected from each of the group of locations . This identification takes into account that photons are caused in part by recombination of carriers in material that occurs from radiative recombination . The part of photons that occurs from radiative recombination is known as photoluminescence.

Radiative recombination is substantially consistent for material . Defect does not affect radiative recombination . The rate of radiative recombination is based on the selection of material and the concentration of carriers in material caused by beam of light .

In this illustrative example changes in photons emitted by radiative recombination may be affected by trap assisted recombination . Trap assisted recombination may reduce radiative recombination . Additionally trap assisted recombination may increase the dark currents present in material .

In this illustrative example analyzer identifies carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations based on data about photons emitted from material and simulation of photons emitted from material at each of the group of locations .

In this illustrative example simulation simulates recombinations of carriers in material . Simulation may simulate radiative recombination trap assisted recombination and auger recombination .

In simulation radiative recombination and trap assisted recombination are assumed to be substantially the same material . As a result the emission of photons should not vary based on radiative recombination and auger recombination . Changes in trap assisted recombination may result in changes in the numbers of photons that are emitted from material .

As depicted in simulation trap assisted recombination for material is simulated in response to beam of light on material . As depicted trap assisted recombination may be varied in simulation . This variation of trap assisted recombination is performed to find a level of trap assisted recombination that causes photons emitted from material in simulation to match photons as detected by detector within a desired level of variance.

The desired level of variance is how much difference between photons being simulated and photons as detected is acceptable for simulating the emission of photons in simulation versus the emission of photons detected by detector . The desired level of variance may be based on some level of acceptable error.

Analyzer identifies carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations to form a group of carrier lifetimes for the group of locations based on trap assisted recombination identified that causes emission of photons and simulation to match photons detected by detector with a desired level of variance. In the illustrative example analyzer may perform analysis based on photons detected by detector and photons in simulation . The analysis may be based on varying the amount of trap assisted recombination .

As depicted analyzer may perform action based on analysis . Action may take a number of different forms. In one illustrative example action includes generating map . Map may be a map of carrier lifetimes in material .

Map may be used to perform other actions. For example map may be used to identify portions of material that may be used for optical devices. For example map may indicate that one portion of material may be suitable for use in an optical device while another portion of material is unsuitable for use in an optical device.

As another example map may be used as a guide to show what parts of material should be used. For example map may show how material may be diced when material is in a wafer. The dicing of material may be in a manner that leaves portions of material for other suitable uses in optical devices. The other portions of material may be discarded or recycled.

In another illustrative example action may take other forms in addition to or including generating map . For example action may include at least one of sending a message generating an alert recommending discarding material in the case that material is not suitable for use or other suitable actions.

As a result computer system in operates as a special purpose computer system in which analyzer in computer system enables identifying carrier lifetimes in material in various ones of locations . In particular analyzer transforms computer system into a special purpose computer system as compared to currently available general computer systems that do not have analyzer .

Computer system performs a transformation of data . For example analyzer in computer system uses the number of photons detected in data to identify the carrier lifetime for trap assisted recombination by comparing photons detected with photons that would be emitted in a simulation of trap assisted recombination for the material such that the data has a different function or has a different use.

Turning to an illustration of a block diagram of data flow simulating trap assisted recombination for a material is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this figure an example of data flow of a process used to identify trap assisted recombination for material through simulation is shown. In this illustrative example simulation includes search tool and simulation calculator .

Search tool identifies trap assisted recombination for material by searching for a solution to a variable that reduces an amount of error to a desired level. As depicted the error is between an estimate of detected photons based on the variable and actual detected photons from material .

In this illustrative example the variable is range of trap assisted recombination lifetimes . Range of trap assisted recombination lifetimes is a range of values of trap assisted recombination lifetimes for material . Trap assisted recombination lifetime is the average carrier lifetime in material before trap assisted recombination occurs.

As depicted search tool generates trap assisted recombination lifetime based on the range of trap assisted recombination lifetimes . Search tool sends trap assisted recombination lifetime to simulation calculator .

Simulation calculator identifies estimate of detected photons based on trap assisted recombination lifetime received from search tool and simulation information . Simulation calculator then identifies error based the difference between estimate of detected photons and detected photons in data . Detected photons is data about photons emitted from material .

Simulation calculator sends error to search tool . The process illustrated in is repeated until search tool finds the trap assisted recombination lifetime in range of trap assisted recombination lifetimes for which error is closest to zero. In other words search tool identifies the trap assisted recombination lifetime in range of trap assisted recombination lifetimes for which the estimate of detected photons is closest to detected photons .

As depicted simulation calculator also generates electron concentration hole concentration auger recombination radiative recombination and trap assisted recombination based on simulation information and trap assisted recombination lifetime . Electron concentration is the number of electrons per unit volume at a selected temperature in the absence of photon absorption. Hole concentration is the number of electron holes per unit volume at a selected temperature in the absence of photon absorption.

Turning next to an illustration of a block diagram of data flow for generating an estimate of error for trap assisted recombination for a material is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this figure an example of data flow used to identify error based on the difference between estimate of detected photons and detected photons is shown. Simulation calculator in is an example of simulation calculator in .

In this example simulation calculator uses simulation information in generating error . In this example simulation information is provided by a human operator. The types of information in simulation information include intrinsic carrier concentration donor doping concentration acceptor doping concentration equilibrium electron concentration equilibrium hole concentration thickness of material radiative recombination rate coefficient auger recombination rate coefficients trap assisted recombination lifetime laser spot size on sample laser wavelength laser power and laser pulse duration .

In this example intrinsic carrier concentration is the number of electrons and electron holes per unit volume which are free of defects in material . These defects are examples of defect in .

Donor doping concentration is the number of atoms per unit volume placed in material that provide an excess electron. An excess electron is an electron without a corresponding electron hole.

As depicted acceptor doping concentration is the number of atoms per unit volume placed in material that provides an excess electron hole. An excess electron hole is an electron hole without a corresponding electron.

Equilibrium electron concentration is the number of electrons per unit volume at a given temperature in the absence of photon absorption. Equilibrium hole concentration is the number of electron holes per unit volume at a given temperature in the absence of photon absorption.

Radiative recombination rate coefficient is a value used to indicate the rate of radiative recombination for the concentration of electrons and electron holes in material . Auger recombination rate coefficients are values used to indicate the rate of auger recombination for the concentration of electrons and electron holes in material .

In this illustrative example trap assisted recombination lifetime is an estimate of the rate of trap assisted recombination for the concentration of electrons and electron holes in material . For example trap assisted recombination lifetime may be used by search tool in as trap assisted recombination lifetime .

Laser spot size on sample is the size of beam of light on material . The size is described as a diameter or radius if the laser spot is circular in the illustrative example.

As depicted laser wavelength is the wavelength of beam of light . Laser power is the power of beam of light . Laser pulse duration is the amount of time beam of light is sent to material .

In this figure simulation calculator identifies trap assisted recombination lifetime in simulation information . Trap assisted recombination lifetime may be an estimate.

Simulation calculator identifies error based on the difference between estimate of detected photons and detected photons in data . Simulation calculator identifies estimate of detected photons using the following equations 1 2 where equations 1 and 2 are used to determine the carrier concentration of both electrons n and holes p after a time step t G t is the optical carrier generation rate and U U and Uare the net recombination rates respectfully from auger radiative and trap assisted recombination.

As an example for the common infrared detector material mercury cadmium telluride MCT simulation calculator identifies intrinsic carrier concentration nand band gap Efor MCT as a function of temperature T and composition x as found in the material HgCdTe. Simulation calculator identifies intrinsic carrier concentration nand band gap Efor MCT using the following equations 

Simulation calculator further identifies equilibrium carrier concentrations using the following equations 

The illustration of inspection environment and the different components in inspection environment in are not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which an illustrative embodiment may be implemented. Other components in addition to or in place of the ones illustrated may be used. Some components may be unnecessary. Also the blocks are presented to illustrate some functional components. One or more of these blocks may be combined divided or combined and divided into different blocks when implemented in an illustrative embodiment.

For example inspection system may include one or more test platforms in addition to or in place of test platform in . Additional detectors may be used with these test platforms. Further light source may be a single light generator with optics for fiber optic cables to correct light to other materials in addition to material that may be located in the different test platforms.

With reference now to an illustration of an inspection environment is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this depicted example inspection environment is an example of one implementation for inspection environment shown in block form in .

Inspection system in inspection environment performs an inspection of test sample . Test sample is a material that has a direct bandgap that is intended for use in an infrared detector device such as an infrared focal plane array.

In this illustrative example inspection system includes a number of different components. As depicted inspection system includes Dewar flask pulsed laser system fast detector and computer .

As depicted Dewar flask is an example of an implementation for test platform in . Fast detector is an example of an implementation for detector in .

As depicted pulsed laser system is an example of light source in . Computer is an example of analyzer in .

In this illustrative example Dewar flask is a structure in which test sample may be placed for inspection. In this illustrative example a vacuum may be drawn within Dewar flask . Additionally the temperature may be lowered to a cryogenic temperature within Dewar flask . This cryogenic temperature is the temperature at which an infrared detection device operates.

Pulsed laser system includes a number of components. As depicted pulsed laser system includes laser generator optical fiber and optics .

Laser generator generates a laser beam that is pulsed. This pulsed laser beam may be directed through optical fiber to optics . In this illustrative example optics includes a number of different components. As depicted optics includes beam splitter mirror lens and lens .

Pulsed laser path is sent from optical fiber to test sample located in Dewar flask . Part of pulsed laser path is defined by beam splitter and lens . Pulsed laser path goes into Dewar flask through window in Dewar flask .

In response to the laser beam following pulsed laser path photons are emitted from test sample . These photons follow return path . Return path goes from test sample to fast detector . Return path passes through window and passes through beam splitter . Return path then goes to fast detector via mirror and through lens .

In this illustrative example fast detector is a detector with a response time that is shorter than the carrier lifetime of test sample . Fast detector generates data in response to detecting the photons reaching fast detector along return path for the route. The data is sent to computer .

In this illustrative example computer analyzes the data. Additionally computer also controls the operation of pulsed laser system and fast detector .

In this illustrative example optics and optical fiber are associated with platform . When one component is associated with another component the association is a physical association in the depicted examples. For example a first component optics or optical fiber may be considered to be physically associated with a second component platform by at least one of being secured to the second component bonded to the second component mounted to the second component welded to the second component fastened to the second component or connected to the second component in some other suitable manner. The first component also may be connected to the second component using a third component. The first component may also be considered to be physically associated with the second component by being formed as a part of the second component an extension of the second component or both.

As depicted platform is a physical structure that is configured to move about a number of axes. For example platform may allow for 6 degrees of freedom in positioning and moving pulsed laser path with respect to test sample . More particularly pulsed laser path may be positioned and moved along three perpendicular axes of three dimensional space and rotated about the three perpendicular axes with respect to test sample . This movement may allow for directing a pulsed laser beam to different locations on test sample . In the illustrative example platform may be for example a housing a frame or some other suitable type of structure.

The illustration of inspection environment in is only meant as an example of one implementation for inspection environment shown in block form in . The illustration of inspection environment is not meant to limit the manner in which other illustrative examples may be implemented.

For example Dewar flask may be moved in place of or in addition to the movement of platform . As another example pulsed laser system may include one or more other optical fibers in addition to optical fiber . As a result multiple laser beams may be directed towards one or more samples that may be located in Dewar flask for other test platforms that may be used in place of or in addition to Dewar flask .

As another example pulsed laser system may include an oscilloscope that reads the data from fast detector . In this example the oscilloscope sends the data to computer .

With reference next to an illustration of a graph of recombination rates from a simulation is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this illustration graph shows output from simulation . In graph x axis is time in seconds and y axis is the rates of recombination or hole concentration in centimeters. As depicted the lines shown on graph represent recombination rates for different types of recombination for material and hole concentration rate for material .

In the illustrative example line shows hole concentration rate . Hole concentration rate in line is based on hole concentration . The types of recombination rates for material shown in graph include radiative recombination rate trap assisted recombination rate auger recombination rate and total recombination rate .

As depicted radiative recombination rate is based on radiative recombination trap assisted recombination rate is based on trap assisted recombination and auger recombination rate is based on auger recombination . Recombination rates are based on recombination lifetimes. Total recombination lifetime is based on the following equation 

Turning to an illustration of a graph of photons detected and the simulated estimate of detected photons for different carrier lifetimes is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. As depicted in graph carrier lifetimes from a simulation and data generated from the detection of photons are shown.

In this illustration graph shows examples of the trap assisted recombination lifetimes identified by simulation in for different locations on material . In graph x axis is time in seconds and y axis is detection of photons in millivolts on a logarithmic scale.

As depicted line shows an estimate of detected photons for a trap assisted lifetime of 1 s. Trap assisted lifetime in line is identified by simulation based on detected photons trap assisted lifetime in line is identified by simulation based on detected photons and trap assisted lifetime in line is identified by simulation based on detected photons . These detected photons are examples of detected photons for three different locations of material . These trap assisted recombination lifetimes are the trap assisted recombination lifetimes for which error is closest to zero for the different locations.

Turning now to an illustration of a map representing trap assisted recombination lifetimes for a material is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In map is an example of one form of map in . As depicted map is an image of a material that has been inspected.

In this illustrative example scale is a legend for the trap assisted recombination lifetimes in microseconds shown on map . Locations on map are identified by x axis and y axis of map . Map shows different trap assisted lifetimes in different regions. For example region shows trap assisted recombination lifetimes that are longer than region and may be more suitable for use in an infrared detector device. As another example region shows trap assisted recombination lifetimes that may not be suitable for use in infrared detector devices. A defect is present in region in this example.

In this illustrative example a 0.5 mm laser spot size was used to identify the trap assisted recombination lifetimes shown on map for material . As depicted defect in material is in region .

With reference next an illustration of a map having a higher resolution is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this illustration map shows locations that represent additional trap assisted recombination lifetimes identified by simulation for material . Map is a higher resolution map of region in . In this illustrative example a 0.15 mm laser spot size was used to identify the trap assisted recombination lifetimes of material for region having defect .

With reference now to an illustration of a map generated from reading signals from an infrared focal plane array is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this illustration map is an infrared image generated by an infrared focal plane array. The infrared focal plane array in this example is formed using region of material . As depicted section of map shows defect in material .

Turning next to an illustration of a flowchart of a process for identifying carrier lifetimes in a material for use in an optical device is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process illustrated in may be implemented in inspection environment in . In particular the process may be implemented in inspection system to inspect material and identify carrier lifetimes to determine suitability of material for use in optical device .

The process begins by sending a beam of light to a group of locations on the material step . The process then detects photons emitted from the material at each of the group of locations step .

Next the process identifies a carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations based on the photons detected from each of the group of locations step . The process then performs an action step with the process terminating thereafter.

With reference now to an illustration of a flowchart of a process for identifying carrier lifetimes is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process illustrated in is an example of one implementation for step in .

The process begins by simulating trap assisted recombination for the material in response to the beam of light on the material in the simulation step . The process also simulates an occurrence of radiative recombination in response to the beam of light in the simulation step .

The process varies the trap assisted recombination in the simulation to find a level of the trap assisted recombination that causes the photons emitted from the material to match the photons detected within a desired level of variance step . The process identifies the carrier lifetime for each of the group of locations based on the trap assisted recombination identified step with the process terminating thereafter.

Turning to an illustration of a flowchart of a process for identifying trap assisted recombination lifetimes is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process illustrated in Figure is an example of one implementation for step in .

The process begins by generating a trap assisted recombination lifetime based on a range of trap assisted recombination lifetimes step . The process identifies an estimate of detected photons based on the trap assisted recombination lifetime and simulation information step .

The process then identifies an amount of error based on the difference between the estimate of detected photons and detected photons in data step . The detected photons are an example of detected photons emitted from material . In the illustrative example steps may be repeated until the process finds the trap assisted recombination lifetime in range of trap assisted recombination lifetimes for which the error is closest to zero.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the different depicted embodiments illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of some possible implementations of apparatuses and methods in an illustrative embodiment. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent at least one of a module a segment a function or a portion of an operation or step. For example one or more of the blocks may be implemented as program code in hardware or a combination of the program code and hardware. When implemented in hardware the hardware may for example take the form of integrated circuits that are manufactured or configured to perform one or more operations in the flowcharts or block diagrams. When implemented as a combination of program code and hardware the implementation may take the form of firmware.

In some alternative implementations of an illustrative embodiment the function or functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example in some cases two blocks shown in succession may be performed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be performed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Also other blocks may be added in addition to the illustrated blocks in a flowchart or block diagram. For example simulation of the recombination of carriers in may also include simulating auger recombination.

Turning now to an illustration of a block diagram of a data processing system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data processing system may be used to implement computer system in . In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications framework which provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display . In this example communications framework may take the form of a bus system.

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit may be a number of processors a multi processor core or some other type of processor depending on the particular implementation.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices . A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information such as for example without limitation at least one of data program code in functional form or other suitable information either on a temporary basis a permanent basis or both on a temporary basis and a permanent basis. Storage devices may also be referred to as computer readable storage devices in these illustrative examples. Memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation.

For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these illustrative examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these illustrative examples communications unit is a network interface card.

Input output unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output unit may provide a connection for user input through at least of a keyboard a mouse or some other suitable input device. Further input output unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for at least one of the operating system applications or programs may be located in storage devices which are in communication with processor unit through communications framework . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory .

These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or computer readable storage media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these illustrative examples. In one example computer readable media may be computer readable storage media or computer readable signal media .

In these illustrative examples computer readable storage media is a physical or tangible storage device used to store program code rather than a medium that propagates or transmits program code . Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system using computer readable signal media . Computer readable signal media may be for example a propagated data signal containing program code . For example computer readable signal media may be at least one of an electromagnetic signal an optical signal or any other suitable type of signal. These signals may be transmitted over at least one of communications links such as wireless communications links optical fiber cable coaxial cable a wire or any other suitable type of communications link.

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown. The different embodiments may be implemented using any hardware device or system capable of running program code .

Thus the illustrative embodiments provide a method and apparatus for identifying carrier lifetimes for materials for use in optical detectors. In this illustrative example inspection system may be used to identify carrier lifetimes for the material used in an infrared detector device such as an infrared focal plane array. In other illustrative examples inspection system may be used to identify carrier lifetimes for a material used in other types of optical devices such as those used to detect visible light ultraviolet light or other wavelengths of radiation.

With an illustrative example inspection of the material may be performed sooner in manufacturing. By identifying carrier lifetimes from photons emitted in response to light directed onto the material inspecting materials using an illustrative example occurs at a time in manufacturing sooner than is currently performed. This type of inspection allows for inspecting the material at a sooner point in time in manufacturing than when inspections currently occur. The technical problem of wasting resources and time that occurs when infrared detector devices are currently tested is reduced or avoided. A technical effect occurs in which manufacturing infrared detector devices may occur more quickly and at a lower cost as compared to currently used manufacturing processes that inspect infrared detector devices when they are complete.

The description of the different illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments in the form disclosed. The different illustrative examples describe components that perform actions or operations. In an illustrative embodiment a component may be configured to perform the action or operation described. For example the component may have a configuration or design for a structure that provides the component an ability to perform the action or operation that is described in the illustrative examples as being performed by the component.

Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further different illustrative embodiments may provide different features as compared to other desirable embodiments. The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

