---

title: Method and apparatus for macro photographic stereo imaging
abstract: A macro photographic apparatus for creating focus stacked images of a specimen may include a rigid longitudinal member having a longitudinal axis and including a camera mount thereon. A translation device may be fixed to the member for translating the specimen along the member toward and away from the camera mount. A rotation device may be mounted on the translation device. The rotation device may support the specimen and enable rotation of the specimen around first and second axes that are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the member. At any single position of the translation device along the longitudinal axis of the member, as the specimen is rotated around the first and second axes, the spatial location of the specimen remains substantially the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253472&OS=09253472&RS=09253472
owner: 
number: 09253472
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150325
---
The present application claims priority to and is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 983 620 filed on Mar. 12 2012 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 465 598 filed on Mar. 11 2011. The referenced applications are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to macro photography and in particular to creating high resolution three dimensional macro photographic digital images.

Disease vectors for example mosquitoes ticks sandflies etc. transmit debilitating diseases. Accurate identification of these disease vectors in the field by lay people has always been a problem. Detailed high resolution images of these small disease vectors labeled with the name of the disease vector would be very helpful for those in the field as in aid in identifying the disease vectors. Such images may be formatted for display on for example mobile devices such as for example smart phones. In a military setting the images may be stored on or transmitted to mobile devices carried by deployed soldiers.

In addition a portable macro photographic device for creating the detailed high resolution images in the field would be very helpful. Images created by the macro photographic device may be transmitted over long distances to a multitude of clients using modern telecommunication techniques.

Even with modern optics the very shallow depth of field available for these tiny organisms results in macro photographs that are mostly out of focus. One way to create better macro images of a small specimen is to take a series or stack of photos of the specimen along the static line of focus of a camera with each photo having an overlapping focus depth with the next photo in the stack. The series or stack of photos may be used as inputs for any one of several commercially available photo stitching computer programs. The computer programs extract the in focus areas from each photo and stitch the extracted in focus areas together to create a single fully focused image.

Photographic apparatus and software for automatically creating a single focus stacked image from a series of photos are available from for example Syncroscopy USA 5108 Pegasus Court Suite M Frederick Md. 21704 USA www.syncroscopy.com or Four Chambers Studio LLC Vallejo Calif. USA GIGAmacro products www.gigamacro.com . Other focus stacking software includes Zerene Stacker and Helicon Focus.

Apparatus for automatically and accurately moving a camera to create a stack of images are known and include for example the StackShot automated macro rail produced by Cognisys Inc. 6900 Jackson Pine Drive Kingsley Mich. 49649 www.cognisys inc.com and the GIGAmacro Professional Imaging System produced by Four Chambers Studio LLC Vallejo Calif. USA. U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2011 0123188 published on May 26 2011 in the name of Cardwell et al. and entitled Motor Controlled Macro Rail for Close Up Focus Stacking Photography discloses an automated macro rail that is the same as or similar to Cognisys s StackShot macro rail. U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2011 0123188 is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The known apparatus move the camera. The camera may be relatively massive and accordingly the movement mechanisms for the camera must possess the requisite power and strength. In addition moving the relatively massive camera creates problems related to stability vibration backlash etc. that may negatively affect image quality.

The known apparatus suitable for focus stacked images are generally not suitable for capturing images of the entire surface area of a specimen. An apparatus for capturing the entire surface area of a specimen is disclosed in for example U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2011 0069880 published on Mar. 24 2011 in the name of Sergieiev and entitled Three Dimensional Photographic System and a Method of Creating and Publishing 3D Digital Images of an Object. Sergieiev s device is not suitable for focus stacked macro photography because for example the camera is a fixed distance from the specimen.

A long felt and unsolved need exists for a macro photographic apparatus for capturing focus stacked images of the entire surface area of a specimen.

One aspect of the invention is a macro photographic apparatus for creating focus stacked images of a specimen. The apparatus may include a rigid longitudinal member having a longitudinal axis and including a camera mount thereon. A translation device may be fixed to the member for translating the specimen along the member toward and away from the camera mount. A rotation device may be mounted on the translation device. The rotation device may support the specimen and enable rotation of the specimen around a first axis that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. The rotation device may fix the specimen at selected rotational positions around the first axis. The rotation device may enable rotation of the specimen around a second axis that is orthogonal to the first axis. The rotation device may fix the specimen at selected rotational positions around the second axis.

At any single position of the translation device along the longitudinal axis of the member as the specimen is rotated around the first axis and the second axis the spatial location of the specimen may remain substantially the same.

The apparatus may include a digital camera fixed to the camera mount. The digital camera may include a macro lens. At least one camera flash may be fixed for translation with the translation device. The digital camera may define a static line of focus parallel to the longitudinal axis of the member.

The rotation device may enable 360 degree rotation of the specimen around each of the first and second axes. The rotation device may include a rotary stage. The rotation device may include a gimbal fixed to the rotary stage. A specimen holder may be supported at one end by the gimbal.

An optical reflector may be disposed adjacent the specimen. The camera flash may be aimed at the optical reflector such that the reflector reflects light from the camera flash onto the specimen. An optical shield may shield the specimen from direct light from the camera flash. The optical shield may be fixed to translate with the translation device. A second optical reflector may be disposed generally opposite to the optical reflector for reflecting light from the optical reflector onto the specimen. An annular reflector may be centered on the static line of focus between the macro lens and the specimen.

Another aspect of the invention is a macro photographic method for creating focus stacked images. The method may include A providing a camera with a macro lens and a specimen B taking a series of photos of the specimen at a plurality of locations along a static line of focus of the camera by translating the specimen along the static line of focus and not translating the camera C forming a focus stacked image of the series of photos D rotating the specimen a selected angular amount around a first axis that is perpendicular to the static line of focus of the camera E taking a second series of photos of the specimen at a plurality of locations along the static line of focus and F forming a second focus stacked image of the second series of photos.

The method may include G repeating steps D F to thereby create a plurality of focus stacked images corresponding to respective angular positions of the specimen around the first axis.

The method may include H rotating the specimen a selected angular amount around a second axis that is perpendicular to both the first axis and the static line of focus of the camera I taking a third series of photos of the specimen at a plurality of locations along the static line of focus and J forming a third focus stacked image of the third series of photos.

The method may include K repeating steps H J to thereby create a plurality of focus stacked images corresponding to respective angular positions of the specimen around the second axis.

Step G may be repeated until the specimen has been rotated 360 degrees around the first axis and step K may be repeated until the specimen has been rotated 360 degrees around the second axis to thereby create focus stacked images of the entire surface area of the specimen.

A pair of sequential focus stacked images may be combined to form a cross eyed stereo image. The focus stacked images corresponding to one of the first and second axes may be combined to form a three dimensional image. The focus stacked images corresponding to both the first and the second axis may be combined to form a UV map of the specimen.

Steps B and E of the method may include illuminating the specimen indirectly with a camera flash. Steps B and E may include shielding the specimen from direct illumination from the camera flash. Steps B and E may include translating the camera flash with the specimen. Steps D and H may include maintaining the specimen in substantially a same spatial location.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A macro scale photographic method may be used to generate extremely high resolution two dimensional and three dimensional digital images of small specimens. The method may include providing a camera with a macro lens. When creating the digital images the camera may remain stationary in a fixed position. A specimen to be photographed may be mounted on a translation device so that the specimen may be translated along the static line of focus of the camera while the camera remains stationary.

In the case where the specimen is small such as an insect and fills the frame of the macro lens typically less than one tenth of the depth of the specimen will be in focus in a single photo. Thus a series or stack of photos may be taken along the static line of focus of the camera by translating the specimen in precise increments with each photo having overlapping focus depth with the next photo in the stack. The number of photos in the stack may vary for example 20 to 80 or more. The stack of photos may be input into a known computer program to create a single fully focused image.

By rotatably mounting the specimen on the translation device the specimen may be rotated about a pair of axes that are perpendicular to each other and perpendicular to the static line of focus of the camera. The rotation device may be fixed to the translation device. The rotation device may be for example a manual or motorized rotary stage in combination with a gimbal. Or the rotation device may be two gimbals.

After the first stack of images are taken along the static focus line of the camera the specimen may be rotated a selected angular amount for example five degrees about an axis that is perpendicular to the static line of focus. Then a second stack of photos of the specimen may be taken in a manner similar to the first stack of photos but with the specimen rotated from its position in the first stack of photos. The focused portions of the second stack of photos may be extracted and combined to form a focus stacked image of the second series of photos. Using the two focused stacked images a single cross eyed stereo image may be created using known computer software.

Additional focused stacked images may be created by taking a series or stack of photos at respective multiple angular positions of the specimen about the rotation axis. The multiple angular positions may be for example five degrees apart. Thus 72 series or sets of photos may be taken at five degree increments to create 72 focused stacked images that represent a 360 degree view of the specimen around the axis. These 72 focused stacked images may be combined with known computer software to create a three dimensional image.

In some embodiments the rotation device includes two mutually perpendicular axes of rotation both of which are perpendicular to the static line of focus of the camera. Thus the specimen may be rotated about the second axis in a manner similar to the first axis to create for example 72 series or sets of photos taken at five degree increments about the second axis. Each of the 72 sets of photos may be processed to produce 72 single focus stacked photos.

The two sets of 72 focus stacked photos represent the entire surface area of the specimen. The two sets of 72 focus stacked photos 144 photos total may be combined in a known manner to produce a UV map of the specimen. The UV map may then be applied to an object mesh to create a photorealistic 3D model of the specimen. The five degree increment of rotation is an example only other increments may be used to produce more or less sets of focus stacked photos.

In some embodiments the specimen may be illuminated indirectly by a camera flash device. Indirect illumination may produce higher quality images. A reflector may be disposed above the specimen. The camera flash may be aimed at the reflector. The specimen may also be shielded to block direct illumination from the camera flash. A second reflector may be placed opposite the first reflector to better illuminate the underside of the specimen. The camera flash device may translate with the specimen as the series of photos are taken.

A translation device may be fixed to member for translating specimen along longitudinal member toward and away from camera . A rotation device may be mounted on translation device . Rotation device may support specimen via a specimen holder . Specimen holder may be for example a mounting needle. Rotation device may enable rotation of specimen around a first axis Y that is perpendicular to static line of focus F of camera and the longitudinal axis of member . Rotation device may fix specimen at selected rotational positions around axis Y. Rotation device may also enable rotation of specimen around a second axis Z that is orthogonal to axis Y and static line of focus F of camera . Axis Z is orthogonal to the view of and intersects the intersection of axis Y and static line of focus F. Rotation device may fix specimen at selected rotational positions around axis Z. Rotation device may enable 360 degree rotation of specimen around each of axes Y and Z.

In member is shown inclined at an angle A with respect to a ground level G. Angle A may be for example from about 20 to about 50 degrees. The inclination of member may prevent backlash that may occur if translation device utilizes the rotation of a threaded rod to translate specimen . However in some embodiments of the invention member may be horizontal. Member may be for example a metal rail made of for example aluminum. Member may be about a meter in length. In some embodiments member may be one leg of a camera tripod having two other legs . Tripod may be useful for using apparatus in the field. Tripod may be capable of extending at least one leg member at a 90 degree angle to the center axis of tripod . An example of tripod is Really Right Stuff s TP 243 Ground Level Tripod. If member is not a leg of a camera tripod then another type of support such as a wide shallow inverted U shaped tube may be used to support member .

In some embodiments translation device may be an automated macro photography focus assembly such as the device that is fully disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2011 0123188 published on May 26 2011 in the name of Cardwell et al. and entitled Motor Controlled Macro Rail for Close Up Focus Stacking Photography. A commercial embodiment of the Cardwell et al. device is named the StackShot and is produced by Cognisys Inc. 6900 Jackson Pine Drive Kingsley Mich. 49649. The StackShot is designed to have a camera mounted thereon and to translate the camera.

In apparatus in contrast camera is fixed to member and specimen is translated. Nevertheless the StackShot may be adapted for use in apparatus by fixing the base of the StackShot to member using for example an Arca clamp. The StackShot is oriented on member so that the axis of translation of the StackShot carriage is parallel to static line of focus F of camera . Then rotation device may be fixed to the translatable carriage of the StackShot using for example threaded fasteners. The Stackshot includes a motor for driving its translatable carriage and a controller assembly. The controller assembly is connected to the shutter of camera and to the StackShot motor. The StackShot controller assembly may be programmed to create a series or stack of photos of specimen which may then be focus stacked into a single image.

The StackShot controller allows the user to pick a start and stop point for specimen movement and select the number of individual photos to be taken. It then translates the specimen a pre set distance stops activates the camera shutter and flash and then translates again until the entire range from start to stop point has been covered.

Of course rather than an automatic device like the StackShot a manual device such as a long threaded rod rotatably mounted in a slot in member may be used as translation device . The StackShot is advantageous because the translation movement of specimen and the actuation of camera may be automated. Because translation device is used to move very small and lightweight specimens and the StackShot is designed to move comparatively massive cameras a desirable modification to the StackShot would be to greatly reduce the size and strength of its mechanical components and the power capacity of its motor.

If the StackShot is used as translation device rotary stage may be fixed to the StackShot translating carriage with for example threaded fasteners.

If a manually threaded rod is used as translation device rotary stage may be fixed to the top side of a translating sled using for example threaded fasteners. is a bottom perspective view of sled . The planar top side of sled is hidden from view in . The bottom side of sled may include guide rails which slide on the outside edges of member and an opening for receiving a follower nut . Nut may threadingly engage a threaded rod . Rotation of rod causes translation of sled and translation of rotary stage that is fixed to sled .

Another component of rotation device may be a gimbal . Gimbal may be fixed to rotary stage by a threaded column . Gimbal may include an arm that is rotatable about the axis of a shaft and threaded nut . The axis of nut may be the Z axis which is perpendicular to the Y axis of rotation of rotary stage and perpendicular to static line of focus F. A micro wire gripper may be fixed to an end of rotating arm . Gripper may fix one end of specimen holder . Notably at any single axial location along static line of focus F as specimen is rotated around the Y and Z axes the spatial location of specimen remains substantially the same. Gimbal may include calibrations in units of angular measurement of rotation around the Z axis. Arm may be manually rotated or may be coupled to a stepper motor.

Images of specimen may be of better quality if specimen is indirectly illuminated. An optical reflector may be disposed adjacent or above specimen . Reflector may have the shape of a half of a hollow cylinder for example. Reflector may be situated over specimen such that a longitudinal axis R of reflector is parallel to and coplanar with static line of focus F and the longitudinal axis of member . In some embodiments axis R may be coincident with static line of focus F. Reflector may be fixed to for example camera or translation device . Specimen may often be within about three inches of camera so mounting reflector to camera may be acceptable. Flash devices may be aimed at optical reflector so that reflector reflects light from flash devices onto specimen .

To enhance the indirect lighting of specimen apparatus may include an opaque optical shield shown in dashed lines in for shielding specimen from direct light from flash devices . Optical shield may be fixed to translate with translation device by mounting shield to rotary stage . Shield may have the shape of a hollow cylinder. Another optical reflector may be disposed on an opposite side of specimen from reflector . Reflector may include the top surface of rotary stage which may be coated with a reflective coating and the interior surfaces of shield . Reflector may reflect light from reflector onto an underside of specimen .

To further enhance the lighting of specimen an annular reflector known as a Lieberkuhn reflector may be included with apparatus . Reflector may include a reflecting surface and an opening . Reflecting surface faces specimen . Reflecting surface may be planar or concave. Reflector is disposed such that static line of focus F contains the center of opening . Reflector may be centered on static line of focus F between macro lens and specimen . Reflector may be for example mounted to macro lens or attached to a camera side end of reflector . The outer diameter of reflector may be the same as the outer diameter of a cylinder that defines reflector . Reflector may create a diffuse lighting on a front surface surface facing lens of specimen while permitting the entire focal cone of light to pass into the small front element of macro lens . Also a suitably colored backdrop may be mounted to longitudinal member to enhance the quality of digital images of specimen .

The details materials steps and arrangement of parts have been described and illustrated to explain the nature of the invention. It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

