---

title: System and methods for transmitting and distributing media content
abstract: A technique for post-processing media content on a network by a GPU cloud computing system is provided. The system includes a plurality of computer systems providing a content submission connection for uploading the media content. The system includes a processor configured to receive descriptive information related to the media content via the network, receive the media content via the content submission connection which has a quicker uploading bandwidth than the network, process the media content; and distribute processed media content via the network that is separated from the content submission connection. The system further includes a distributed GPU cloud computing platform to perform parallel post-processing of the media content, and an immersive 3D interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554174&OS=09554174&RS=09554174
owner: 
number: 09554174
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20151011
---
The present application is a continuation application of a U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 567 739 filed Sep. 26 2009 entitled System and Method for Transmitting and Distributing Media Content which claims the benefit of the priority of a U.S. provisional application No. 61 100 675 filed Sep. 26 2008 entitled System and Method for Online High Definition Video Content Distribution . The disclosures of the forgoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties including any appendices or attachments thereof for all purposes.

High Definition HD video content distribution over a network requires a high bandwidth for both download and upload. Full HD 1080p video content in a common compression format such as H.264 has around five times the amount of data of a comparable Standard Definition SD video content. A video content in 720p 720 horizontal lines progressive scan has around 2.5 times the amount of data compared with SD content. Most broadband data communication technologies such as for example DSL or cable are asymmetric meaning that the downstream speed is higher than the upstream speed as seen from a users point of view. The limited upstream bandwidth is a critical bottleneck for HD content delivery over the internet. Network architectures using optical fiber to replace all or part of the usual copper local loop used for telecommunications such as symmetric fiber to the home FTTH provide faster upload speeds but are expensive and not very widespread.

HD video data may be converted to a different format and or edited in order for the video data to be suitable for streaming over the internet. However processing of HD video data is computing intensive and may be difficult for a user to achieve.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems tools and methods that are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. In various embodiments one or more of the above described problems have been reduced or eliminated while other embodiments are directed to other improvements.

A technique for distributing high quality user generated high definition HD video content on the web is presented. A system according to the technique may include a service provider managing a user database a catalog database and a media library. The service provider may receive the HD video content from a user through a content submission method.

In a non limiting example the content submission method may be mail in whereby the HD video content is stored on a portable storage medium and sent to the service provider. The portable storage medium includes by way of example but not limitation an optical disk high capacity memory card or portable hard disk. In another example the content submission method may be a self service kiosk whereby the HD video content is transferred to the self service kiosk. The HD video content is then transferred from the self service kiosk to a remote processing center. In yet another example the submission method may be direct upload whereby the user uploads the HD video content directly to the remote processing center through a suitable broadband connection.

A method according to the technique receives registration information for the HD video content to be shared and receives the HD video content from a user through a content submission method. The HD video content may then be processed and transcoded to a streamable format or to a format suitable for downloading. The submission method may use a wireless device mediated direct upload mechanism whereas the device transcodes the content on the fly. In one embodiment the converted HD video content may be uploaded to third party content delivery networks.

Various content submission methods such as mail in self service kiosk and direct upload as well as the content presentation and advertising methods and systems are presented.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of various embodiments of the invention.

The approach described herein for post processing and uploading large file size video contents to a network burdened by heterogeneous bandwidth constraints for subsequent sharing and related consumer advertising purposes is applicable to any type of large data file post processing and uploading application such as applications involving the large datasets typically generated in the medical imaging field video endoscopy high field and real time magnetic resonance imaging etc and in connection with various methods of monetization such as pay per use subscription advertising supported .

The approach is without limitation particularly well suited for distributing media rich contents such as high definition video files on the internet. Throughout the disclosure the term media content broadly refers to information or data that can be transmitted stored and or distributed via various types of medium such as the internet television audio video CDs films cassettes etc. In certain embodiments media content may be stored in analog or digital formats. The invention may be implemented in computer software or in hardware circuitry or any combination of software and hardware components and is not limited to any specific software or hardware implementation.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as transferring transmitting distributing copying or moving or the like refer to the action of creating a copy of data such as a file or folder residing on a first medium onto a second medium via a certain content submission method. The data may remain on the first medium or may be erased from the first medium upon completion of the action of creating a copy on the second medium. For example media content stored on a first computing device may be transferred and saved to a second computing device via a network connection. Alternatively a legacy video cassette containing a video clip may be physically transferred to a processing center with its video clip being digitized and copied to a DVD. The term content submission method broadly refers to a mechanism or an operation to transfer the media content from one place to another. For example a content submission method may allow media content to be transmitted electronically via a network connection or be physically delivered to a destination for further processing.

In one embodiment a user may create an account with a service provider. The service provider may request personal information about the user for instance the user name password e mail address transaction processing information for e commerce such as a physical shipping address mobile phone number payment details terms of service agreement with the service provider or other information related to the user or any combination thereof. Alternatively the user account can be systematically or automatically created based on a user information database.

A user may register content with the service provider and send the content to the service provider. Upon registration of the content the user may access progress information related to the progress of the content e.g. receipt confirmation processing progress availability for distribution being transferred to or being processed on the service provider. In one embodiment the progress information may be accessed from different locations. The progress information may be automatically transferred to the users computer. The progress information may additionally or instead be stored on a server of the service provider and a user may log into their account from an internet ready device and access the progress information and or personal information.

In one embodiment a user may be able to access their account to which they previously signed up with the service provider including any preference information from more than one computing device. The user may have created the account for example on a home computer and can access the account from a different device connected to the internet such as for example a computer at an internet caf or from a self service kiosk as described later. The user may also change the personal information from any such device.

In one embodiment a user transfers content through one of the various submission methods. Upon receiving the content the service provider may process and or edit the content depending on the users preference information. The preference information may have been provided to the service provider during account registration and or during content registration. In a non limiting example the service provider may perform quality assurance of the content thereby eliminating poor content and detecting copyright infringement.

In one embodiment the service provider may distribute the content after the content has been processed and or edited. Distribution may be available to the user that submitted the original content or to other users connected to the service provider or to both. Access to the content may also be restricted to certain users. The service provider may notify a user that the content is ready for distribution make an entry in a catalog database about the content update a user database to reflect that the content is ready for distribution and store the content on a server of the service provider. Users may search the catalog database for rendered contents and download or stream contents provided they have sufficient privileges. A content provider e.g. the user that registered the content and submitted it to the service provider may choose to restrict access to the content submitted by the content provider before the content is made available for example during registration of the content or may do so at any point after the content has been submitted such as by updating content registration information by accessing the user database .

In one embodiment after submitting the content to the service provider the user is notified by the service provider for instance through an e mail or text message sent to the user s mobile phone or smartphone a phone with wireless internet access and PC type features when the user s content such as HD video is uploaded and available for viewing. In the example of the smartphone such a notification mechanism may be implemented independently or together with a separate software application available for downloading to the smartphone. In the latter implementation the software application on the smartphone may for instance allow the user to receive the notification preview the content on the smartphone and in turn notify other users e.g. friends and associates who utilize the smartphone application that the content is available. Further the notification mechanism may include metadata such as location metadata e.g. the location where the HD video has been recorded . Such location metadata also called a geotag may then be used to display the location information on a map or for other purposes. Further such a smartphone application may be distributed for a fee or supported by an advertisement displayed on the smartphone application or by other means of monetization.

The content described in this disclosure may be any large size data such as media rich content. By way of example but not limitation the content may be high definition video high resolution photos or multi channel surround sound recordings. In a non limiting example the systems and methods described herein may be directed to delivery of files to the remote processing center of the service provider for subsequent generation rendering of computer generated animated movies in the entertainment industry or of user generated animated movies submission of next generation MRI scans for off site teleradiologists to view the scans with a 3D immersive interface submission of High field MRI phenotype data for subsequent computer aided diagnosis off site with or without utilizing DNA profile data. The content may be processed using a cloud computing architecture at the service provider.

HD acquisition device may be any device capable of recording video in a high definition such as in a non limiting example a camcorder or an HD capable mobile phone. Device storage may be any storage medium onto which video recorded by HD acquisition device may be stored. Device storage may be integrated memory built into HD acquisition device or removable memory such as a non volatile high capacity memory card that can be removed from HD acquisition device . Alternatively the device may be an audio or video capturing device that stores the captured media in an analog format. For example the device can be a legacy video recorder which records and stores videos or images on a tape storage e.g. VHS tapes etc .

Client computer may be a general purpose computing device such as a desktop laptop or smartphone or any other computing device that can extract media content from the storage of the device . In one embodiment the computer may be integrated into the media acquisition device such as a smartphone with access to the internet. The computer may also be a special purpose computing device to acquire store and transmit media content. For example the computer may contain 2 D or 3 D graphic authoring rendering and editing hardware software to produce artificial media content such as cartoons or animations. The media content created on the computer or acquired via device may be stored and managed by a media content submission repository which may be implemented based on a file folder a directory or a database management. In one embodiment the content submission repository may also be physically implemented with hard drives memory flash memory or the combination thereof.

In the example of an HD video content may be transferred from HD video acquisition device to client computer . The HD video content may be transferred through a direct cable connection between client computer and HD video acquisition device such as a USB or FIREWIRE connection through a wireless connection such as Wi Fi or BLUETOOTH or through indirect connection such as by removing device storage connecting device storage to client computer and transferring or copying data contained on storage device to client computer . The HD video contents may then be stored in the content submission repository .

In one embodiment the client computer may transfer media content stored in the repository to a service provider for further processing. The service provider may be implemented as a media processing and distributing server and may include user database catalog database and media library etc. Service provider may further include means for receiving portable storage medium and transfer the content stored on portable storage medium onto the server. Additionally a web interface may be used for example to register the HD video content with service provider so that the content registration information can be properly recorded. In one embodiment service provider is configured to enable users to search for available HD video content based on the content registration information. Service provider may provide a data driven website involving server components such as user database and catalog database .

In a non limiting example portable storage medium may be any writable or rewritable medium such as CD R RW DVD R RW Blu ray disc recordable BD R RE non volatile memory e.g. Flash memory solid state drive SSD or magnetic medium e.g. portable hard drive . Portable storage medium is configured to contain HD video content or other media content. Portable storage medium may additionally contain other data useful to the service provider as will be explained later.

In one embodiment content submission repository including the HD video content may be transferred to portable storage . This step may be performed by copying and pasting such as drag and drop the content submission repository including the HD video content from client computer to portable storage medium or may be performed using a dedicated software application. This application may also assist the user in tagging content submission repository .

In one embodiment a user may record the HD video content with the device and then register the recorded media content at the service provider through a submission method . The user may then use a different computing device to put the HD video content on a portable storage medium . Further the user may use a different submission method to mail in the device storage or the portable storage which contains the HD video content to the service provider . Upon receiving the storage or service provider may extract the media content from the storage and match the media content with the content registration information by using for example the users name account number or any other information enabling service provider to tie the HD video content to the content registration information.

In the example of registration information received through web interface may be stored in user database . Upon receiving portable storage medium service provider may match content submission repository including HD video content with registration information received through web interface . In one embodiment catalog database holds catalog entries of HD video contents available through service provider . Full resolution original and or processed edited versions of the HD video content may be stored in media library .

In one embodiment the submission method and the submission method are two separate information transmitting mechanisms for submitting data to the service provider . For example the submission method may be a conventional network connection provided by an Internet Service Provider ISP for accessing the Internet. In a typical configuration the upload speed of the submission method may be limited for transmitting data to the service provider . In other words the submission method may utilize network that exhibits a heterogeneous bandwidth constraint in which the upstream uploading bandwidth is lower than the downstream downloading bandwidth. On the other hand the media contents for HD video often require a large amount of storage and take longer time for data transferring. If transmitted via the submission method the media contents may take a long period of time for uploading to the service provider . Further long period of uploading may be easily interrupted by network glitches or be restricted by the ISP. Thus an alternative submission method e.g. submission method may be necessary to bypass the submission method for uploading a large amount of data to the service provider .

In one embodiment a submission method which is separated from and bypasses the submission method may shorten the uploading time and greatly improve the reliability in transmitting a large amount of HD video content to the service provider . Thus the submission method and the submission method may not share their respective communication paths with each other. In one embodiment the submission method has no access to the submission method for data communication. During operation the delivery of the portable storage medium which contains the large media content data may be sent to the service provider via postal service courier service drop off at and collection from a retail store or any means for sending the physical medium to service provider . Once the service provider receives the portable storage medium via submission method it may extract information from the storage medium and compare the information with the content information received from submission method for content matching and upload progress monitoring purposes.

In one embodiment the video acquisition device the client computer and or the service provider may utilize processor and memory for implementations. The processor may include central processing units CPUs to execute software or firmware stored in a memory. The processor s may be or may include one or more programmable general purpose or special purpose microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs programmable controllers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs or the like or a combination of such devices. The memory represents any form of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory as discussed above or the like or a combination of such devices. In use the memory may contain among other things a set of machine instructions which when executed by processor causing the processor to perform operations to implement embodiments of the present invention.

In the example of the content submission method is through a self service kiosk . HD video content may be transferred from HD video acquisition device by inserting device storage into self service kiosk by means of wireless transmission from HD video acquisition device to self service kiosk or by inserting portable storage including HD video content into self service kiosk . Content submission repository as described above with reference to may be created prior to during or after submission of the HD video content to self service kiosk .

In one embodiment the self service kiosk may be directly connected with the remote processing center via a fast network . The fast network may have dedicated and high speed network connection that allows a large amount of data to be fast and directly transmitted to the processing center . Further this submission method which is based on multiple kiosks strategically located at various convenient locations for uploading media content allow HD video contents to be quickly and conveniently uploaded without relying on other submission methods that have limited network bandwidth. Thus the self service kiosk and the fast network provide a submission method that bypasses and is separated from the conventional content uploading mechanisms.

In the example of computer terminal provides means for a user to register the HD video content with service provider and may enable the user to select presentation processing and or editing of the HD video content by service provider . HD acquisition device device storage content submission repository service provider user database catalog database and media library have similar functions to corresponding components as described above with reference to .

In one embodiment the wireless mesh network may be implemented using the emerging 802.11s standard which is based on 802.11 Wi Fi . 802.11s wireless mesh network devices implement technology that addresses such problems like throughput degradation congestion security and other functions. In another embodiment the wireless mesh network devices may utilize White Spaces . The Federal Communication Commission s FCC recent decision to approve new uses of a range of underused and as a result of the switch to digital TV newly vacated frequencies between 512 and 698 Mhz will make these so called White Spaces the natural successor to Wi Fi due to its wider range and lower latency communication capabilities and better penetration capabilities of the lower frequency RF signals used.

In the example of HD video content may be directly uploaded from client computer to service provider through wireless mesh network . Wireless media router may contain a System on a chip SoC media processor configured for on the fly conversion transcoding of the original full resolution HD video content into formats for different applications e.g. streaming downloading . Such transcoding reduces the file size so it can be more efficiently transferred. Transcoding may furthermore be implemented using a high end GPU graphics processing unit based video card residing in the media router device.

In the example of wireless media router may include client software allowing the media router to download HD video content over a wireless mesh network or via a suitable broadband connection. In another embodiment of the invention the media router may incorporate file transfer optimization software for fast network file transfer. Both upload and download of HD video content over wireless mesh network are independent of the user s internet service provider such as cable or DSL ISP and related data transfer limits. The media router device may be set up at the user s home location as part of the wireless home network. In one embodiment HD video content may be transferred to service provider using a fast broadband connection such as in a non limiting example a fiber optic network. It is foreseeable that the media router device described above can be implemented in a very compact way such as a chip set on a circuit board. This will allow the device to be easily integrated with other devices such as those prevalent in the digital living room for example HDTV sets gaming consoles set top boxes but also mobile devices such as laptop computers hand held mobile devices such as smart phones etc.

In the example of immersive 3D web interface is a rich media interface that allows the HD media content to be displayed along with advertisements news and other commercial information in an non intrusive way. Immersive 3D web interface may be provided on high definition capable display devices configured to be connected to the internet. These display devices may be next generation widescreen high definition displays such as general purpose computers or HDTV sets connected to the internet. In a non limiting example immersive 3D web interface may run in an internet browser window or as a separate application. Immersive 3D web interface may provide a graphics intensive presentation of content such as for example in a 3D virtual world.

Immersive 3D web interface may provide search capabilities for a user to search for HD video contents available from service provider . A search may be performed by means such as a search box for search terms or through a content recommendation system such as a ranking engine or a content discovery engine driven by collaborative user input.

HD video content may be presented in immersive 3D web interface along with related content e.g. user blog articles links and or advertisement. The video content may be streamed such as for preview and or selected for download. Immersive 3D web interface may provide customization of presentation of HD video content . For example customization may enable a user to view the content as a plain 3D video wall or a more virtual world game like environment with more elements for multi user interaction. A given 3D scene may be utilized as a template for content presentation eliminating the need for computing intensive rendering rendering on the fly .

Immersive 3D web interface may enable advertisement to be presented contextually in a non obtrusive manner along with HD video content . In a non limiting example advertisement may be inserted into a 3D scene on the fly without requiring HD video content and the advertisement to be re rendered into a 3D scene. The advertisement may be presented in the form of a virtual billboard. Alternatively the advertisement may be rendered and displayed surrounding or along the side of the HD video screen in an immersive 3D interface. In one embodiment common web technologies such as AJAX or LAMP stack may be used to build the type of rich dynamic user experience desired by consumers such as web interface as described above with reference to .

Large file size multimedia data such as HD video content may be stored in and managed by media server . The media library stored in media servers can be searched and media library content may be accessed by users. Access to parts or all of the media library may be restricted to only users with appropriate permissions. In one embodiment a software and or hardware based user access control for some media assets in the media library is provided while other media assets in the library are freely accessible and can be syndicated to other web sites and services through the service provider s web application programming interface API or web content syndication methods such as Media RSS MRSS or by other means. In another embodiment the data center of service provider is operated in a closed environment resides in a physically separated facility with special physical and software and hardware based security mechanisms implemented.

In one embodiment a massively parallel distributed computing architecture may be used for post processing of media content uploaded to the service provider . Post processing may involve video transcoding editing enhancement and other special purpose applications computer aided diagnosis image reconstruction . Post processing may not only involve processing individual data files independently such as in video transcoding but also processing subsets of or the entire media library such as in video search and data mining applications. Transcoding algorithms may be parallelized and distributed on a multitude of cores or processors. The post processing task at hand such as the transcoding algorithm may be parallelized meaning that it can be distributed on several or many computing cores or processors . Those cores typically reside in one machine or computer thus forming a computing node. The number of cores or processors per node in general purpose hardware typically ranges from several CPU cores such as eight a so called octocore in a multi processor PC or in a gaming console to several hundred GPU graphics processing units in high end graphics cards streaming processors. Deployment of post processing tasks to the GPU may utilize special software development tools for the GPU platform such as CUDA and OpenCL.

One embodiment of the invention utilizes a large number of interconnected nodes that in turn encompass a multitude of GPUs hundreds or even thousands or more streaming processors to work in tandem as a GPU compute cloud residing in the service provider s data center and networked with media servers . The cloud computing architecture employed in the embodiment of the invention allows customers such as corporate customers from the entertainment industry to access the services provided by the data center or many thereof such as transcoding of HD video content to a streamable format on a per use basis and without burdening the customer with technical or infrastructure issues. The embodiment includes a mechanism for metering usage as well as providing a consistent level of service as demand grows. The consistent level of service may be implemented by utilizing clustering and or virtualization technologies.

In the example of HD video content may be transferred from media servers to certain third party content delivery networks CDNs via a high bandwidth fiber optic network link from where they can be further distributed for downloading or direct streaming purposes. In the example of CDN may transfer HD video content to client computer via wireless mesh network . Wireless media router may be used as described above with reference to . In one embodiment the data submission method described above for submitting media content is separated from and cannot access the CDN and or CDN . Thus by using different data submission methods and data distribution mechanisms a large amount of media content can be efficiently uploaded and distributed without being restricted by the limited upstream bandwidth provided by common ISPs.

In one embodiment immersive 3D web interface may be implemented using client and server components such as OpenSimulator OpenSim and libsecondlife. OpenSim is an open source server implementation for hosting virtual worlds which may be utilized for streaming video into a 3D scene. OpenSim uses libsecondlife to connect to a third party client application which in turn displays the immersive 3D environment. However other 3D engines may be used as well to build such immersive 3D web interface .

In another embodiment immersive 3D web interface may be implemented by means of hardware bridging of a PC interface e.g. DVI or PCIe over internet protocol IP . In this implementation the entire rich media interface not only certain rich media components is transmitted over the network directly from the service provider . No application software needs to be downloaded by the user to display the content onto a high definition capable display device e.g. HDTV set . However the display device needs to be equipped with a special hardware circuitry component that supports hardware bridging over IP. In yet another embodiment desktop virtualization software may be utilized to transmit the immersive 3D web interface over the network directly from the service provider . In this embodiment client application software but no special hardware circuitry component is needed to display the content onto the HD capable display device.

In one embodiment immersive 3D web interface may be implemented in a way that it can be controlled with a multi touch i.e. driven by more than one finger interaction device such as a multi touch sensitive screen or controller device e.g. multi touch remote control .

In the example of the flowchart begins at module with creating a user account signing in. If a user account has already been set up by a user the user can sign in to use the services provided by the service provider as described with reference to . If no user account has been created input of certain personal information from the user is required. This information may include the following user name password e mail address transaction processing information for e commerce such as physical shipping address mobile phone number payment details terms of service agreement with a service provider or any combination thereof.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with registering content with a service provider. The service provider may request content information about the HD video content to be distributed. Content information may include identification of files metadata content description and genre user s own ranking of top five movies in submission batch to be featured in user blog content submission method method media type used. In one embodiment the user may complete content submission manifest. A tracking number airway bill number and e airway bill may be generated. The user may print the airway bill if mail in method is chosen as a content submission method as described with reference to . The user may tag the content submission repository as described with reference to with airway bill number and include e airway bill manifest .

In one embodiment the user may select available free or paid for content presentation design templates such as video rendering templates with various options transitions and special effects. The user may input and preview customized information for selected template such as title font color and credits. In one embodiment the user may select one or more CDNs as described with reference to for content distribution such as streaming or download.

In one embodiment the user may order additional items such as return DVD Blu ray disc BD or personalized discs shipped to friends and family. These discs may contain a processed and or edited version of the HD video content sent by the user to the service provider.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with submitting content to service provider. The tagged content submission repository may be shipped or otherwise transferred to the service provider depending on the content submission method mail in of portable storage media self service kiosk or direct upload . In one embodiment the content registration information submitted by module may be transmitted via a first submission method that is separate and different from the second submission method utilized by module in submitting the media content. As described above the various approaches utilized by the second content submission method allow HD video contents to be quickly uploaded to the service provider bypassing the first submission method which has limited upload bandwidth.

In the example of the flowchart begins with module with receiving and storing information related to HD video content. The information may include identification of files metadata content description and genre user s own ranking of top five movies in submission batch to be featured in user blog content submission method method media type used or manifest or any combination thereof as described in reference to .

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with receiving HD video content. The content may be received through one of many content submission methods. These may include but are not limited to mail in self service kiosk or direct upload. In one embodiment the content submission methods of the module are separated from and bypassing the content submission method of the module .

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with matching HD video content with stored information. The service provider may match the tag airway bill number and manifest airway bill with information stored on the server.

In one embodiment an initial Quality Assurance QA may be performed on the HD video content. Upon successful completion of the initial QA the service provider may auto generate update a catalog entry of a catalog database on the service provider s server. Such initial quality assurance ensures that the media content received by the service provider can be further processed. Further upon a determination that the uploaded media content has a quality that is below a pre determined threshold the service provider may restrict the further distributing of the convent or request the defective media content to be re submitted. The quality threshold may be determined based on a set of pre determined criteria. For example the service provider may determine that the media content is not in the correct format below the requisite resolution or has insufficient quality etc.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with post processing the HD video content. The content may also be edited. A user selected template may be applied to video content for editing. A full length full resolution HD copy may be stored in a media library on the service provider s server. Transcoding may be performed on the HD video content to change the content to a format suitable for downloading streaming. For streaming the content may be converted to a compressed streaming video format such as Flash video. In one embodiment in video advertisement may be inserted into the HD video content. In one embodiment a low resolution copy for other purposes such as an internal and external review QA may be generated. This step requires conversion of full resolution HD video to lower resolution.

In one embodiment editorial review steps are performed during QA for elimination of poor or unsuitable content e.g. content deemed unsuitable for viewing etc flagging with editor s rating and updates of the catalog. QA may use third party reference data and services for instance to detect audio and video signatures that may indicate copyright infringement. Thus once the QA detects that the media content containing copyright protected information and the service provider may restrict the further access of such media content until the copyright ownership is ascertained.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with making the content available for streaming downloading. The content may have been transcoded to convert the original file to a more suitable format. The content may be available to everyone or may be restricted to users with the right permissions. QA passed HD video content may be uploaded to user selected content delivery networks CDNs for streaming or download purposes. The media library catalog information such as metadata including uniform resource locator or URL may be updated for online content sharing. Further advertisement information may be inserted into the media content during the distribution. The advertisement may either be inserted during the post processing at module or be added during the distribution process at module .

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

