---

title: Home automation device
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a home automation system that is automated based on user preferences provided by a social networking system, where the home automation system provides a short-range, high-speed wireless connection that is contained within the safe boundaries of a home. Briefly described, the home automation system employs one or more home automation devices to control various home devices within the home based on detection of one or more users' social profile, where each home automation device is configured to broadcast and communicate via a short-range, multi-gigabit-per-second (MGbps) wireless communication link that can be utilized by the various home devices. Furthermore, each home automation device is configured to be self-tuning, thereby enabling automatic efficient management of the MGbps wireless communication link.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09490996&OS=09490996&RS=09490996
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09490996
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150417
---
At least some embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to home automation systems and more particularly to a home automation system that provides a short range high speed wireless communication link for enabling automated control of home devices through connection with a social networking system.

Currently available home automation systems provide convenience and safety by allowing remote control of various home devices e.g. electrical appliances mobile computing devices etc. within a home. These home automation systems typically utilize adapters e.g. control switches that are coupled to the home devices located throughout the home. However setting up the adapters can require a substantial amount of customization. Therefore it is often difficult to integrate these home automation systems into old homes which are not equipped to communicate with new technologies. Furthermore a home user is often required to memorize certain command codes or configuration settings and or manually configure the adapters in order to adjust the devices. Accordingly existing home automation systems which are supposed to alleviate and enhance home living are simply inadequate and unnecessarily burdensome.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a home automation system that provides a short range high speed wireless communication link for enabling automated control of one or more home devices through connection with a social networking system. Traditionally home automation systems often rely on Wi Fi to communicate with various home devices for enabling home automation. Reliance on Wi Fi however poses several problems. First a Wi Fi signal often cannot reach some areas of a home that are known as dead zones. Typical solutions for overcoming these dead zones include amplifying the Wi Fi signal setting up multiple access points APs or a combination of both. These solutions often lead to the WiFi signal broadcasting beyond the boundaries of the home thereby resulting in security risks of unwelcomed intruders gaining access to and or attacking the home WiFi signal. Second some infrastructure change is often required to enable control of the home devices for home automation. Furthermore manual configuration of the home devices is needed to set up preferences for every individual in the home. As a result satisfying every individual s needs can be burdensome especially when new individuals e.g. guests are present in the home.

In contrast various embodiments of the present disclosure enable a truly automated home automation system based on user preferences provided by a social networking system and further allow for a short range high speed wireless connection that is contained within the safe boundaries of the home. Briefly described the home automation system employs one or more home automation devices to control various home devices within the home based on detection of one or more users social profile where each home automation device is configured to broadcast and communicate via a short range multi gigabit per second MGbps wireless communication link that can be utilized by the various home devices. Each home automation device is further configured to be self tuning thereby enabling automatic management of the MGbps wireless communication link.

In some embodiments a home automation device includes an Ethernet powerline system integrated with a short range MGbps wireless networking system. Among other benefits integration of these two systems advantageously enables a high speed wireless networking connection that is contained within the boundaries of the home relieving home users from security risks typical for WiFi systems. The MGbps wireless networking connection enables one or more home devices within the home to communicate transmit information and or access various online content via a reliable fast communication link. Furthermore such connection enables the home automation device to control the home devices seamlessly based on user preferences retrieved from a social networking system via the same reliable fast link.

In some embodiments a particular home automation device is configured to communicate with one or more other home automation devices within the home to detect whether those home automation devices are broadcasting the high speed wireless communication signal beyond their respective specified ranges. In such embodiments the particular home automation device can transmit a message e.g. a power down message to the other home automation device that has been detected to be broadcasting beyond its specified range thereby invading the territory of the particular home automation device . The other home automation device upon receiving the message can tune or readjust its signal to limit the broadcasting within its specified range. This communication between the home automation devices advantageously provides automatic power management at the respective home automation devices such that no one device wastes power by broadcasting beyond its specified range.

In some embodiments a home automation device is integrated with a social networking system to control the one or more home devices in accordance with preferences of one or more users of the social networking system. For example based on user preferences of a particular user received from the social networking system the home automation device can control a home thermostat to the liking of that particular user. In another example based on the particular user s user preferences specifying permissions associated with a guest user the home automation device can control the home thermostat to the liking of the guest user upon detecting the presence of the guest user in the home. In yet another example based on those permissions the home automation device can automatically provide to a computing device of the guest user access to the high speed wireless networking connection within the home at the moment the guest user enters the home without requiring authentication of the guest user e.g. no prompting for a wireless access password .

In some embodiments a home automation device provides a platform for adding on various electronic components that can be physically coupled to the home automation device. In some embodiments the electronic components include a smoke detector a carbon monoxide detector a video streaming camera an audio system e.g. a speaker sound system etc.

In some embodiments the home automation device provides the capability to operate as a CPU for a user mobile device e.g. a smart phone a tablet etc. . For example the home automation device provides a mirror cast capability to enable e.g. a smart phone to launch a movie playing on a screen of the smart phone to another electronic device e.g. a TV by using the home automation device to grab frames of the movie from the smart phone.

In some embodiments the home automation device provides an advertisement capability to introduce various products and or services to a user at home. For example the home automation device based on user preferences associated with the social networking system can retrieve and display advertisements related to TV shows in which the user would be interested.

In some embodiments the home automation device provides reminders to a user at home based on that user s preferences. For example the home automation device can conjure up calendar event reminders e.g. birthdays family get together sports game etc. . In another example the home automation device can provide a verbal reminder e.g. Buy milk e.g. by connecting to a speaker within the home.

It is noted that the various embodiments of the disclosure can be embodied as special purpose hardware e.g. circuitry as programmable circuitry appropriately programmed with software and or firmware or as a combination of special purpose and programmable circuitry. Hence embodiments may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions that may be used to cause one or more processors to perform the methods variations of the methods and other operations described here. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical discs compact disc read only memories CD ROMs magneto optical discs read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs application specific integrated circuits ASICs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The phrases in some embodiments according to some embodiments in the embodiments shown in other embodiments and the like generally mean the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one implementation of the various embodiments and may be included in more than one implementation. In addition such phrases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiments or different embodiments. Furthermore if the specification states a system a component or a feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

The terms connected or coupled and related terms are used in an operational sense and are not necessarily limited to a direct physical connection or coupling. Thus for example two devices may be coupled directly or via one or more intermediary media or devices. As another example devices may be coupled in such a way that information can be passed there between while not sharing any physical connection with one another. Based on the disclosure provided here one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of ways in which connection or coupling exists in accordance with the aforementioned definition.

The term component module or engine refers broadly to general or specific purpose hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Modules and engines are typically functional components that can generate useful data or other output using specified input s . A module or engine may or may not be self contained. Depending upon implementation specific or other considerations the modules or engines may be centralized or functionally distributed. An application program also called an application may include one or more modules and or engines or a module and or engine can include one or more application programs.

The user device can be any computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In some embodiments the user device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. In some embodiments the user device can be a mobile computing device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone e.g. a smart phone a tablet computer e.g. an iPad a smartwatch or a similar device. In some embodiments the user device executes an application allowing a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . For example the user device can execute a browser application or a customized client to enable interaction between the user device and the social networking system via the network . In some embodiments the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The home automation system can also include one or more home devices . A home device can be any electronic appliances and or electronic devices within a home. Examples of the home device can include a thermostat an air conditioning AC system a lighting system a video security system a door lock system an entertainment system e.g. audio and or video system and the like. In some embodiments the home device is capable of transmitting and receiving data to and from the home automation device via the network . In such embodiments the home automation device can transmit various instructions to control the home device in accordance with preferences of a user profile retrieved from the social networking system .

The home automation device can be any computing device capable of broadcasting a wireless communication signal or link at a multi gigabit per second MGbps rate via the network as well as transmitting and or receiving data at the MGbps rate via the network . In some embodiments the home automation device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the home automation device such as IOS or ANDROID .

In some embodiments the API can connect the home automation device with the user device via the application running on the user device . For example a user can launch the application at the user device to login to the social networking system to connect and or setup the home automation device and to configure various settings associated with a user profile or user account of the social networking system . In such example connecting and or setting up the home automation device can include in some embodiments connecting the home automation device with one or more home devices . In some embodiments upon setup the home automation device can control various home devices in accordance with preferences of the user based on the settings associated with or designated by the user profile. As a result the home automation device can facilitate the home devices to operate automatically in accordance with those preferences without being manually prompted by the user.

In some embodiments the one or more home automation devices A N can communicate with one another to manage signal strength being broadcast by one another. For example a home automation device A which is located in a living room can detect a signal being broadcast by another home automation device B and can transmit a power down message to the home automation device B. In such example the home automation device B can tune or adjust its power e.g. decrease a magnitude of the signal based on the power down message.

All of the devices and can be configured to communicate via the network which can comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In some embodiments the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as direct connect such as Ethernet worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol WAP IEEE 802.11a x IEEE 802.11 ad 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged via the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

According to the embodiments shown in the social networking system includes an API request server a Web server a message server an action preferences logger an action preferences log a permissions manager and a database i.e. a user profile store an edge store a content store a financial account store and a connection store . In other embodiments the social networking system can include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system architecture. Still yet in some embodiments two or more of the components illustrated in can be incorporated into a single component and or a portion of the functionality of one or more of these components can be associated with a different component. For example in some embodiments the user profile store the edge store the content store the financial account store and the connection store can be combined into a single component.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative data or information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and can also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In some embodiments a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile can also store other information provided by the user for example images videos or other objects. In some embodiments images of users can be tagged with identification information on users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store can also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the edge store .

A user profile can be associated with one or more financial accounts allowing the user profile to include data retrieved from or derived from a financial account. A user can specify one or more privacy settings that limit information from a financial account that the social networking system is permitted to access. In some embodiments the privacy settings are stored in the user profile store . In some embodiments the privacy settings are stored in the preferences store which is further described below. In one example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to accessing the transaction history of the financial account and not the current account balance. As another example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to a subset of the transaction history of the financial account allowing the social networking system to access transactions within a specified time range transactions involving less than a threshold transaction amounts transactions associated with specified vendor identifiers transactions associated with vendor identifiers other than specified vendor identifiers or any other suitable criteria limiting information from a financial account identified by a user that is accessible by the social networking system . In some embodiments information from the financial account is stored in the user profile store . In other embodiments it can be stored in the financial account store .

In some embodiments the edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system in edge objects. Some edges can be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users can generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners family members and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system . The edge store also stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores can be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object can be stored in one edge object in the edge store in some embodiments. In some embodiments connections between users can be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store can access the edge store to determine connections between users.

In some embodiments the content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos or audio files. Content items from the content store can be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items can show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items can facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his or her connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social networking system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system .

The content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities having user profiles in the user profile store . An entity is a non individual user of the social networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a social networking system user. For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s user profile as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the brand page. Vendors can be associated with pages in the content store allowing social networking system users to more easily interact with the vendor via the social networking system . A vendor identifier is associated with a vendor s page allowing the social networking system to identify the vendor and or to retrieve additional information about the vendor from the user profile store or from any other suitable source using the vendor identifier. In some embodiments the content store can also store one or more targeting criteria associated with stored objects and identifying one or more characteristics of a user to which the object is eligible to be presented.

The social networking system can further store data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The data describing one or more connections can include a list of connections a date each connection i.e. friendship was made etc. The connections can be further defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example the connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. In one embodiment the connection specifies a connection type based on the type of relationship. Examples of the type of relationship include family friend colleague etc. Users can select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Some or all of this information can also be stored as edge objects in edge store .

The action preferences logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system and populates the action preferences log with data or information about those user actions. Such actions can include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user.

In some embodiments the action preferences logger receives subject to one or more privacy settings transaction information from a financial account associated with a user and identifies user actions from the transaction information. For example the action preferences logger retrieves vendor identifiers from the financial account s transaction history and identifies an object such as a page in the social networking system associated with the vendor identifier. This allows the action preferences logger to identify a user s purchases of products or services that are associated with a page or another object in the content store . In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action preferences log .

The action preferences log can be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as external websites or applications that communicate information to the social networking system . Users can interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action preferences log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action preferences log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a group becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action preferences log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system .

In some embodiments data from the action preferences log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences. These user preferences are further stored in the action preferences log .

The action preferences log can also store user actions taken on external websites or applications and or determined from a financial account associated with the user. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices can recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer can use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action preferences log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying. Actions identified by the action preferences logger from the transaction history of a financial account associated with the user allow the action preferences log to record further information about additional types of user actions. In some embodiments content of the action preferences log can be stored in the database e.g. user profile store .

In some embodiments the action preferences logger also receives preferences data or information from a home automation device in communication with the social networking system e.g. the home automation device of and populates the action preferences log with the preferences information. The preferences data can include for example thermostat preferences e.g. heating or cooling temperature lighting preferences e.g. ambient lighting at night entertainment preferences e.g. music movie hobbies and the like. For example the action preferences logger receives information about user inputs at the home automation device to adjust a temperature setting e.g. action to increase the temperature to 75 degrees and records the action of temperature adjustment as a temperature preference for that user. In some embodiments the action preferences logger analyzes the user actions to track and or infer the user preferences and further populates the action preferences log with the analyzed information about those preferences. For example the action preferences logger receives and identifies user actions associated with viewing comedy content. This allows the action preferences logger to infer and record the user s affinity for comedy related entertainment in the action preferences log which can later be accessed by the home automation device for controlling one or more home devices in the presence of the user.

The permissions manager manages permission settings associated with a user profile on the social networking system . A user of the user profile can login to the social networking system to configure a permission policy for various groups defined by the user. The permission policy can define specific permission settings for specific users or specific hierarchy of users i.e. different permission levels e.g. family members friends and acquaintances. For example the user can define users in the Family group are on the highest level of a security hierarchy enabling those users access to a highest amount of applications tools and or content. The particular applications tools and or media content available to a particular group are also configurable by the user. For example a permission policy can indicate whether a particular user e.g. a user account of the social networking system or a particular group e.g. Family is allowed to stream a requested media content. Examples of the media content can include images videos audio clips text scripts or any combination thereof. Examples of the applications can include entertainment applications e.g. movie streaming application or music streaming application home security applications e.g. camera access and control applications cloud storage applications and the like. Examples of the tools can include wireless communication network access.

Note in other embodiments the home automation device can include additional fewer or different components modules and or applications. Still yet some embodiments can incorporate two or more of these modules and components into a single module and or associate a portion of the functionality of one or more of these modules with a different module. For example in some embodiments the wireless communication module and the signal management module can be combined into a single component. In another example in some embodiments the wired communication module the wireless communication module and the signal management module can be combined into a single component. In another example in some embodiments the wired communication module and the wireless communication module can operate independently of the communication unit e.g. existing separately from but working in coordination with the communication unit . In yet another example in some embodiments the signal management module and the applications can be combined into a single component.

The memory can be any device mechanism or populated data structure used for storing information. In accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure the memory can encompass any type of but is not limited to volatile memory nonvolatile memory and dynamic memory. For example the memory can be random access memory one or more memory storage devices one or more optical memory devices media magnetic media floppy disks magnetic tapes hard drives SDRAM RDRAM DDR RAM erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs compact disks DVDs and or the like. In accordance with some embodiments the memory can include one or more disk drives flash drives one or more databases one or more tables one or more files local cache memories processor cache memories relational databases flat databases and or the like. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate many additional devices and techniques for storing information which can be used as the memory .

The memory can be used to store instructions for running or executing one or more applications or modules on processor s . For example memory could be used in some embodiments to house all or some of the instructions needed to execute the functionality of the operating system the application s the sensor adapter the wired communication module the wireless communication module and the signal management module .

The operating system can provide a software package that is capable of managing the hardware resources of the home automation device . The operating system can also provide common services for software applications running or executing on the processor . The operating system can include mobile operating systems such as IOS or ANDROID or more conventional operating systems such as LINUX or WINDOWS .

In accordance with various embodiments the operating system can coordinate resources for the application s that allow a user to access and interact with service providers. The service providers can be for example a video streaming service a music streaming service a security system service a shopping service etc. The application s can include for example a home automation application a social networking application a home security application a video streaming application an audio application a gaming application and the like. The application s can access a server associated with the service providers to retrieve and or access account details. Generally a user of a particular application such as the home automation application has to authenticate herself with a particular service provider before gaining access. Traditionally the authentication process can be cumbersome requiring a username and password be entered by the user for accessing every service provider and in particular for accessing a home automation system service account.

In contrast various embodiments of the present disclosure provides for a social profile based home automation system that uses an individual s user profile associated with a social networking system e.g. the social networking system to provide authentication to various services and control of various home devices to access those services. In accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure once the individual or user authenticates herself with the social networking system e.g. by inputting via a user interface of the home automation device login credentials e.g. username and password associated with the social networking system the home automation device can automatically control the home devices and any associated service provider accounts based on that user profile. Accordingly authentication with the social networking system enables authentication at all other service providers linked to the social networking service where the user has created accounts at the other service providers using e.g. a social user profile associated with the social networking system . For example once authenticated the home automation device can interact with a music streaming service provider to control a music streaming device e.g. iPod based on music preferences extracted from the user profile at the social networking system.

In some embodiments the application s are coupled with the sensor adapter to interact with various add on electronic sensor components add on sensors . The add on sensors can be physically coupled to the home automation device for example through electrical connection slots e.g. connectors of . Examples of such add on sensors can include carbon monoxide detectors smoke detectors security cameras or voice recognition detectors. The sensor adapter provides an interface for communication between the home automation device and one or more add on sensors using circuitry and protocols such as those for handling data audio video interface wireless transceivers or the like e.g. Bluetooth IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB Digital Visual Interface DVI 802.11a b g n x ad cellular etc. . In other embodiments the sensor adapter can include components modules and or applications for communicating with other types of add on electronic components and or devices. For example these other add on electronic components and or devices can include a speaker component utilized for communicating with an audio system and or speaker or can be the speaker itself for transmitting audio.

The user preferences module can be running or executing on the home automation device . The user preferences module is coupled to the processor and configured to store user profile data associated with users of the social networking system. In some embodiments the user preferences module works in coordination with the one or more applications . For example upon authentication user profile data of a particular user is transmitted to the home automation device via the applications . In the example the applications forwards the data to the user preferences module for storage. In some embodiments the user preferences module works in coordination with the communication unit to receive the user profile data for storage.

The communication unit facilitates communication between the home automation device and remote devices and or systems such as one or more other home automation devices e.g. home automation devices B N one or more home devices or the social networking system. In accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure the communication unit includes the wired communication module for receiving and transmitting data information via a wired communication link. In some embodiments the wired communication module is a powerline adapter or Ethernet powerline adapter that receives and transmits data using an Ethernet communication link via a powerline Ethernet Powerline Connection . Utilization of the wired communication module advantageously provides for a high speed wired network connection within a home through use of the home s electrical power wiring.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure the wired communication module is operatively coupled to the wireless communication module to advantageously provide for the receiving and transmitting of data information via a high speed wireless network connection within the home. In some embodiments the wireless communication module is a Wireless Gigabit WiGig adapter that is configured to provide a short range wireless communication link at a multi gigabit per second MGBps rate. For example the home automation device through the wireless communication module can provide the wireless communication link to the devices for communication and or communicate via the link with the user devices and the home devices . As used herein the short range refers to a specified range or distance that is relatively short in comparison to that of conventional Wi Fi signals. In contrast to Wi Fi signals however the short range signal via the wireless communication link of the wireless communication module is broadcast at a multi gigabit per second rate. The specified range can be in some embodiments a distance of 30 feet or less. In some embodiments this range can be reconfigured by a user or an operator of the home automation device . Accordingly the wireless communication module coupled to the wired communication module provides a high speed wireless networking connection for other devices operating within a specified range of the home automation device thereby containing the signal within boundaries of a home e.g. a particular room and preventing unnecessary penetration into other areas e.g. other rooms and or signal leakage to the outside of the home.

The signal management module is configured to detect within the specified range a high speed wireless communication signal that is broadcast by another home automation device such as home automation device B. The high speed wireless communication signal can be a signal broadcast via a WiGig link or any other wireless communication link at a MGbps rate. The signal management module is further configured to transmit in response to detecting the high speed wireless communication signal a power down message to that other home automation device. The power down message can include a request e.g. instructions for the other home automation device to power down or decrease its wireless communication signal thereby preventing that signal from penetrating the space being occupied by the home automation device .

In some embodiments the home automation device using the wireless communication module can detect a physical presence of a user within a home via the wireless communication connection . In particular the wireless communication module is configured to monitor within the specified range within a home for any signal being broadcast via the wireless communication connection by an electronic device such as the user device of . Upon such detection the wireless communication module transmits the information to the processor which determines an identity of the user of that user device and more particularly a user profile of the user associated with a social networking system. Based on the determined identity of the user the wireless communication module can communicate with one or more home devices to control those home devices in accordance with the preferences associated with the user profile.

In some embodiments the wired communication module can include a system on chip SoC chipset not shown that carry out the functionalities of the wired communication module the wireless communication module and or the signal management module . The SoC chipset can be part of a core processing or computing unit of the communication unit and is configured to receive and process input data and instructions provide output and or control other components of the communication unit in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure. The SoC chipset can include a microprocessor a memory controller a memory and other components. The microprocessor may further include a cache memory e.g. SRAM which along with the memory of the SoC chipset can be part of a memory hierarchy to store instructions and data. The microprocessor may also include one or more logic modules such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or other logic array. Communication between The SoC chipset s microprocessor and memory can be facilitated by the memory controller or chipset which can also facilitate communication with the peripheral components.

In other embodiments each of the wired communication module the wireless communication module and or the signal management module can have its own respective SoC chipset. In some embodiments the communication unit can also include a bus infrastructure and or other interconnection means to connect and communicate information with the other components of the communication unit and or of the home automation device .

Through the process flow a user can set up the home automation device using a user device and a networking device . In some embodiments the networking device is a conventional router that forwards or routes data packets between computer networks. In such embodiments the networking device can be utilized to route data to from a wired communication network and a wireless communication network provided by the home automation device. The wireless communication network can include a short range multi gigabit per second communication link e.g. a WiGig link .

As illustrated in the embodiments of the home automation device can be embodied as an electronic unit physically capable of being plugged into an electrical outlet of a home. In some embodiments the home automation device includes one or more bypass electrical outlets A N where A is 1 and N is an integer greater than 1 to provide more electrical outlets for use in the home. In some embodiments the home automation device includes one or more connectivity ports A N where A is 1 and N is an integer greater than 1 . The connectivity ports A N enables the physical attachment of one or more add on electronic components to the home automation device . For example the add on electronic components can be one or more light weight devices that can be added onto the network of home devices in communication with the home automation device add on home devices . Example add on home devices can include a high fidelity speaker a WiFi video streaming camera or one or more sensors. Example sensors can include a carbon monoxide detector a smoke detector etc.

In some embodiments the add on home devices can connect to the connectivity ports A N by use of magnetism. In such embodiments a particular connectivity port A can include a connectivity pad not shown that is internal i.e. underneath the surface of the home automation device the connectivity pad can have one or more rare earth magnets for providing connectivity with other magnets positioned externally next to the particular connectivity port A. A particular add on home device can also include a connectivity portion that has one or more rare earth magnets for connecting to the particular connectivity port A. The magnets of both devices enable adhesion of the particular add on home device to the particular connectivity port A upon contact thereby holding the add on home device physically in place at a particular position on the home automation device .

In some embodiments the home automation device can include one or more USB ports that provide power to the add on home devices attached through the connectivity ports A N. In such embodiments an add on home device can be physically held in place by a connectivity port e.g. the connectivity port A and be provided power through connection to a USB port corresponding to the connectivity port A.

The user device can be the user device described in . An application App is running or executing on the user device and is configured to enable the user to set up the home automation device . In some embodiments the App is associated with a social networking system e.g. the social networking system of . As illustrated in operation the user launches the App executing on the user device . The user enters one or more inputs into the App to associate the home automation device with the App . The user can enter login credentials associated with a user account of the user where that user account is associated with the App e.g. a social profile user account on the social networking system . The user can next enter a MAC address e.g. a unique identifier including six groups of two hexadecimal digits of the home automation device to identify that device to the App and in turn to the social networking system. Once the App is connected to the home automation device the App can facilitate communication of user profile data of the user to the home automation device . The home automation device can utilize the user profile data to control various home devices e.g. home devices of and or add on home devices e.g. as discussed above in accordance with the defined preferences and or predicted preferences of the user .

At operation the user plugs the home automation device into the electrical outlet . At operation the user connects the home automation device to the networking device . The networking device enables the home automation device to be connected to a wired communication network e.g. Ethernet . Furthermore connection to the electrical outlet and the networking device enables the home automation device to facilitate network communication of data using the Ethernet connection link via powerline.

At operation the home automation device broadcasts a multi gigabit per second MGbps communication signal or link for use by any electronic devices and or apparatuses within a specified range of the home automation device . The specified range is a relatively short range as compared to a typical WiFi signal. In some embodiments the specified range can be for example 30 feet or less. In the embodiments of the multi gigabit per second communication link is a low frequency communication signal that enables the home automation device to limit the broadcasting of the signal to the specified range. That is the home automation device is able to provide a short range high data rate signal that can provide dependable connectivity to devices in the surrounding vicinity. As a result of the setup by the user any electronic device such as the user device another new user device and a home device can operate using the short range yet high speed communication link provided by the home automation device .

In some embodiments the user can access the App to configure various settings that can be utilized by the home automation device where those settings can include preferences and permissions. For example the user can set up temperature preference and lighting preference in the home. In some embodiments the user can access the App to configure permissions settings that can be utilized by the home automation device . In some embodiments the permission settings can be used to control one or more home devices or add on home devices.

In some embodiments the permission settings can be used to control specific applications tools and or content associated with or provided by the one or more home devices and or add on home devices. In one example the user can set up Internet access permissions for various other users e.g. guests to the home so that those users can have automatic access to the Internet on their devices the moment they enter the home without having to request for an access password from the user .

The permission settings can include a hierarchy of users as defined by the user . The hierarchy of users can identify particular users that belong in a particular level of trust within the hierarchy indicated by the user . For example the user can define levels of trust within the hierarchy including a Family Group as a first level or highest level of trust a Friends Group as a second level or middle level of trust and an Acquaintances Group as a third level or lowest level of trust. Within each level the user can identify users that belong to that level. The user can also define specific permissions given to those users in the different groups. For example within the Family Group the user can enter two names or usernames on the social networking system and associate the labels wife and daughter to those names. In this example the user can define that permissions for everything are granted to those users in the Family Group. In another example within the Friends Group the user enters a list of names and associate the label friend to those names. In this example the user can define that only permissions to certain things are granted to those users such as access to WiFi connection access to certain photo albums etc. In another example within the Acquaintances Group the user enters a list of names and associate the label acquaintance to those names. In this example the user can define that only permissions to certain things are granted to those users such as access to WiFi connection. The user can also specify that no permission is given to any user not listed in any of the Friends Group the Family Group or the Acquaintances Group. 

In some embodiments the permission settings can be further configured for subgroups within each level of the hierarchy defined by the user . For example within the Family Group the user can restrict access to certain applications and or content associated with the applications e.g. streaming of R rated movies unavailable to daughter user . In some embodiments the permission settings can be further configured to define priority of preferences for users within each level of the hierarchy defined by the user . For example within the Family Group the user can specify that preferences of a user with the wife label has priority over the user with the daughter label and or the husband label.

In some embodiments the user can submit additional inputs to configure various settings associated with the home automation device . In some embodiments the additional inputs can be submitted through the App running on the user device . In some embodiments the additional inputs can be submitted using a different application or customized client associated with the home automation device . For example the user accesses an application running on the home automation device to submit the additional inputs. In this example the home automation device can include for example a display that generates one or more graphical user interfaces to enable the user to interact and configure the various settings associated with the home automation device . In another example the user accesses a browser application running on the user device to configure the various settings associated with the home automation device .

In some embodiments the first home automation device is in communication with the home devices and via a short range multi gigabit per second communication link such as a WiGig link. The first home automation device is configured to transmit information via a network via a wired communication link such as an Ethernet connection. In some embodiments the Ethernet connection is implemented using an Ethernet powerline adapter. In some embodiments the home automation device is configured to broadcast the short range multi gigabit per second communication link to one or more user devices to enable communication via the network . In such embodiments the one or more user devices can transmit and or receive information via the network using the short range multi gigabit per second communication link provided by the home automation device . For example a particular user device can browse and access content of an online website. In another example the particular user device can stream movies at a high speed using the communication link provided by the home automation device .

An application is running or executing on the home automation device . A user e.g. a home owner of the home can launch the application to set up the home automation device . For example the user can enter login credentials to authenticate the user with a social networking system and access various services provided through the social networking system such as automated control of home devices within the home. In one example the user can set up temperature preference and lighting preference in the home. In another example the user can set up Internet access permissions for various other users so that those users can have automatic access to the Internet on their devices the moment they enter the home without having to request for an access password from the user.

In some embodiments once the user has authenticated himself herself via the social networking system the application can access a user profile of the user on the social networking system to control the home devices in accordance with predicted preferences and or predefined preferences of the user. In some embodiments the home automation device can be authorized to access other accounts of the user based on the authentication with the social networking system and can automatically access various application and or services on behalf of the user. For example the home automation device can communicate with a movie streaming stream service to access movie content using the user s movie streaming service account based on the authentication with the social network system. The home automation device can further select based on the user s social networking user profile a movie for streaming to the user on a home television that is wireless connected to the home automation device via the communication link .

Each of the home automation device and is configured to provide a short range multi gigabit per second link for utilization by devices within a predefined or specified range of the device e.g. the home devices and or the user devices . The predefined range can be for example a 30 foot radius. In some embodiments the short range multi gigabit per second link is configured to propagate through air but not penetrate building structures e.g. walls . In such embodiments the link provides a high speed network connection without penetrating beyond its predefined limits such as the safe boundaries of the home.

In the various embodiments of the home automation device is configured to control the home devices based on a detection of one or more user devices within the space where the one or more user devices belong to one or more users of the home. The home devices and can be various smart devices used for the home with wired and or wireless communication capabilities. The home device can be for example a wired or wirelessly connected thermostat. The home device can be for example a wired or wirelessly connected light bulb and or a wired or wirelessly connected lighting system. The home device can be a wired or wirelessly connected audio video system e.g. an entertainment center including a television and a speaker system . Other example home devices can include a smoke detector a carbon monoxide detector a security system and other sensor systems. The home automation device can communicate with any of these detectors sensors to monitor the home environment and ensure safety of users within the environment e.g. by alerting .

In particular the home automation device can communicate with a particular sensor periodically e.g. every second minute hour etc. receive sensor data outputs detected by these sensors determine that a value of a sensor output is within a specified threshold range detect that a particular signal from a particular user mobile device of a particular user within the specified range where the particular signal indicates that the particular user is physically present within the specified range and transmit a notification to the particular user mobile device to alert the particular user of the sensor output value being within the specified threshold range. The specified threshold range here refers to a specified range of values associated with levels that are no longer safe or at least concerning to the user. In one example the home automation device through communication with a carbon monoxide detector receives and determines a level of carbon monoxide is at or exceeds a threshold i.e. within specified threshold range . In addition to this determination the home automation device also detects a particular signal from a particular user mobile device of a particular user i.e. indicating a physical presence of the particular user within the specified range . In response the home automation device can transmit via the short range wireless communication link a notification to the particular user mobile device to alert the particular user of the level of carbon monoxide exceeding the threshold.

The second home automation device and the third automation device are configured to perform similar functionalities as discussed above with respect to the first home automation device . The home device and the home devices and are similar to the home devices and in that they are home devices capable of communicating via a wired and or a wireless communication network. Consider now the following example scenarios for ease of discussion and not limiting involving the various home automation devices and and the various home devices operating in the spaces and .

In a first example scenario a first user e.g. a husband owner of the home enters the space carrying a first user device . An application is executing on the first user device . The application App can be a social networking application associated with a social networking system e.g. the social networking system of . The first user authenticates or has already authenticated himself by entering into the App login credentials for his social networking account associated with the social networking system. The home automation device detects a signal from the first user device . In some embodiments the signal can be transmitted via the communication link provided by the first home automation device e.g. a WiGig link . In some embodiments the signal can be sent by the App . For example the App is configured to broadcast the signal continuously in the background of the first user device to connect with any home automation device within the vicinity of the first user device .

The first home automation device determines the identity of the first user carrying the first user device based on the received signal. In particular the first home automation device can derive user profile information such as a user ID from the signal received. In some embodiments the home automation device further determines other information about the user or user profile data based on the signal. The first home automation device can send a request for that other information to the social networking system. Upon receiving the user profile data the home automation device can automatically transmit a message to one or more home devices such as the home device to control that device in accordance with that information. For example the first home automation device receives a temperature preference of the first user e.g. 68 degrees and in response transmits a message to adjust the home device which is a thermostat in the example to operate at that temperature for the first user.

Next in the first scenario a second user e.g. a wife owner of the home enters the space carrying a second user device . The App is executing on the second user device . The second user similar to the first user authenticates or has already authenticated herself by entering into the App login credentials indicative of her social networking account associated with the social networking system. The first home automation device detects a signal from the second user device . In some embodiments the signal can be transmitted via the communication link provided by the first home automation device e.g. a WiGig link . In some embodiments the signal can be sent by the App executing on the second user device .

Based on the received signal the first home automation device determines the identity of the second user carrying the second user device by deriving user profile information such as a user ID from the received signal. In some embodiments the first home automation device further determines other information about the user or user profile data based on that signal. The first home automation device can send a request for that other information to the social networking system. Upon receiving the user profile data the home automation device can automatically transmit a message to one or more home devices such as the home device to control that device in accordance with that information. For example the first home automation device receives a temperature preference of the second user e.g. 76 degrees in addition to information that the second user e.g. the wife owner has priority over the first user e.g. the husband owner in terms of temperature preferences. In response the first home automation device can transmit a message to adjust the thermostat e.g. home device to the new temperature preferred by the second owner.

In some embodiments the preference priority can be configured in a permissions profile or settings associated with the first user. In some embodiments the preference priority can be configured in a permissions profile or settings associated with the second user. For example the first user connects to the second user via the social networking system and specifies in his user profile that the preferences of particular users e.g. the second user have priority over his preferences.

In a second example scenario the first user carrying the first user device enters the space that contains the second home automation device . The second home automation device detects a signal from the first user device .

The signal can be transmitted via the communication link provided by the second home automation device e.g. a WiGig link . In some embodiments the signal can be sent by the App executing on the first user device . The second home automation device determines the identity of the first user carrying the first user device based on the received signal.

Similar to the first home automation device the second home automation device can automatically transmit a message to one or more home devices such as the home device to control that device in accordance with user profile data of the first user. In one example the home device is a thermostat configured to control temperature within the space . In such example the second home automation device transmits a message to control the home device so that the space is operating at the preferred temperature of the first user if not already . In another example the home device is a lighting system of one or more lights installed in the space to provide lighting coverage. In such example the second home automation device transmits a message to control the home device in accordance with the first user s lighting preference e.g. bright between the hours of 4 PM and 9 PM .

In a third example scenario the second user carrying the second user device enters the space that contains the third home automation device . The third home automation device detects a signal from the second user device . The signal can be transmitted via the communication link provided by the third home automation device e.g. a WiGig link . In some embodiments the signal can be sent by the App executing on the second user device . The third home automation device determines the identity of the second user carrying the second user device based on the received signal.

Similar to the first home automation device the third home automation device can automatically transmit a message to one or more home devices such as the home device and to control those devices in accordance with user profile data of the second user. In one example the home device is a stereo system configured to play music within the space where the music is provided by an online music streaming service provider. In such example the third home automation device transmits a message to control the home device so that it starts streaming music from a radio station configured based on a favorite artist defined and or predicted based on the user profile data of the second user. In another example the home device is a lighting system of one or more lights installed in the space to provide lighting coverage. In such example the third home automation device transmits a message to control the home device in accordance with the second user s lighting preference e.g. ambient after 7 PM .

Other examples of auto control of the home devices other than those discussed above can be implemented using the various embodiments of the home automation devices and discussed in . For example the first home automation device can control lighting of a wirelessly connected lighting system of the space e.g. home device upon entrance of the first user e.g. in response to a detection of the second user device .

In some embodiments the home automation devices and are configured to manage signal broadcasting between one another. Such functionality is beneficial for example to help home users manage signal strength thereby resulting in energy efficiency due to management of power utilized by the devices . Furthermore such management helps reduce the security risks of outsiders taking advantage of the wireless signal within the home e.g. unauthorized network access .

In some embodiments each of the home automation devices is configured to monitor its respective vicinity for the over broadcasting of any signal beyond the predefined range thereby supporting energy efficiency. In an example scenario the first home automation device is configured to provide the communication link within a predefined range or distance e.g. within the space the second home automation device is configured to provide the communication link within its predefined range e.g. within the space and the third home automation device is configured to provide the communication link within its predefined range e.g. within the space . The predefined range can be for example a 30 foot radius.

In some embodiments the first home automation device can monitor the space and detect the communication link being broadcast from the second home automation device . In some embodiments the first home automation device can analyze a strength of the detected communication link . If the signal strength is beyond a specified threshold the first home automation device can transmit a message to the second home automation device to power down or decrease the signal strength e.g. decrease magnitude of signal strength . In some embodiments the first home automation device simply transmits the message to power down in response to detection of the communication link within the space . Similarly the first home automation device can monitor the space and detect the communication link being broadcast from the third home automation device . In response to such detection the first home automation device can transmit a power down message to the third home automation device .

In some embodiments the second home automation device can monitor the space and detect for any communication link invading the space . For example the second home automation device detects the communication link being broadcast from the third home automation device . In some embodiments the second home automation device can analyze a strength of the detected communication link . If the signal strength is beyond a specified threshold the second home automation device can transmit a message to the third home automation device to power down or decrease the signal strength e.g. decrease by a particular magnitude . In some embodiments the second home automation device simply transmits the message to power down in response to detection of the communication link within the space . Similarly the second home automation device can monitor the space and detect the communication link being broadcast from the first home automation device . In response to such detection the second home automation device can transmit a power down message to the first home automation device .

In some embodiments the third home automation device can perform the monitoring functionality of the first and second home automation devices for the space . Upon detection of any of the communication links or for example the third home automation device transmits the message to power down to the corresponding home automation device in response to detection of that home automation device s communication link within the space . In some embodiments the third home automation device can analyze a strength of the detected communication link and transmit the power down message if the signal strength is beyond a specified threshold.

In various embodiments the home automation devices and are operatively coupled to one another to enable continuous connectivity and or operation of user devices for users within the home. In one example the home automation devices work in coordination to provide continuous wireless networking access when the first user device moves from the space to the space . In another example the home automation devices and provide continuous wireless communication access when the first user device moves from the space to the space and or the space . In another example the home automation devices and work in coordination to provide a user with continuous access to music provided by an online streaming service provider when the user moves between the space and the space . In this example the home automation devices and communicate with each other via the wired communication network e.g. Ethernet powerline system to control a wirelessly connected audio system located in the space e.g. home device and a wirelessly connected audio system located in the space e.g. home device .

At block the device monitors within the specified range to detect for another wireless communication signal being broadcast at the MGbps rate by a remote home automation device. At block the device determines whether a MGbps signal has been detected. If such a signal is detected the device proceeds to block . At block the device transmits a power down message to the remote home automation device from which the device has detected the MGbps signal. If no such signal is detected the device returns to block and continues to monitor the specified range.

At operation the device receives user profile data associated with users of the social networking system. At operation the device stores the user profile data associated with the users of the social networking system. In some embodiments the device sends a request for user profile data after detection of a user device associated with a user of the social networking system.

At operation the device detects a particular signal from a particular user mobile device of a particular user the particular signal indicative of a physical presence of the particular user within the specified range. In some embodiments the particular signal can include identifying information about the particular user e.g. username device ID application ID IP address etc. . At operation the device identifies from the user profile data received from the social networking system a particular user profile associated with the particular user detected based on the particular signal. For example the device derives identifying information from data included in the particular signal and identifies the particular user profile associated with that identifying information.

At operation the device controls one or more home devices based on the particular user profile identified. For example the device communicates via a short range MGbps communication link to transmit a command message that controls a thermostat to be at a particular temperature specified by the temperature preference of the particular user profile identified. In yet another example the device provides the particular user mobile device access to the MGbps wireless networking connection without prompting the particular user for a password based on the particular user profile being included in a home user s permissions settings.

Regarding the methods and while the various steps blocks or sub processes are presented in a given order alternative embodiments can perform routines having steps or employ systems having steps blocks or sub processes in a different order and some steps sub processes or blocks can be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or sub combinations. Each of these steps blocks or sub processes can be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while steps sub processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series some steps sub processes or blocks can instead be performed in parallel or can be performed at different times as will be recognized by a person of ordinary skill in the art. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations can employ differing values or ranges.

In the illustrated embodiment the processing system includes one or more processors memory one or more mass storage devices one or more input output I O devices and one or more communication device s all of which are coupled to one another through an interconnect . The interconnect may be or include buses point to point connections adapters and or other conventional connection devices.

The processor s can be or include for example one or more general purpose programmable microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable gate arrays or the like or a combination of such devices. The processor s control the overall operation of the processing device .

Memory can be or include one or more physical storage devices which may be in the form of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM which may be erasable and programmable flash memory miniature hard disk drive or other suitable type of storage device or a combination of such devices. The mass storage device s may be or include one or more hard drives digital versatile disks DVDs flash memories or the like. The memory and or the mass storage device s can store individually or collectively data and instructions that configure the processor s to execute operations in accordance with the techniques described above.

The communication devices can be or include for example an Ethernet adapter cable modem Wi Fi adapter cellular transceiver Bluetooth or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE transceiver or the like or a combination thereof. For example in the case of a user device the communication devices can be or include for example a cellular telecommunications transceiver e.g. 3G or 4G LTE Wi Fi transceiver Bluetooth or BLE transceiver or the like or a combination thereof.

Depending on the specific nature and purpose of the processing device the I O devices can include devices such as a display which may be a touch screen display audio speaker keyboard mouse or other pointing device microphone camera etc. Note that these I O devices may be unnecessary however if the processing device is embodied solely as a server computer.

Unless contrary to physical possibility it is envisioned that i the methods steps described herein may be performed in any sequence and or in any combination and that ii the components of respective embodiments may be combined in any manner.

The machine implemented operations described above can be implemented by programmable circuitry programmed configured by software and or firmware or entirely by special purpose circuitry or by a combination of such forms. Such special purpose circuitry if any can be in the form of for example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs etc.

Software used to implement the techniques introduced here may be stored on a machine readable storage medium and may be executed by one or more general purpose or special purpose programmable microprocessors. A machine readable medium as the term is used herein includes any mechanism that can store information in a form accessible by a machine a machine may be for example a computer network device cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA manufacturing tool any device with one or more processors etc. . For example a machine accessible medium includes recordable non recordable media e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc. etc.

