---

title: Failsafe detection
abstract: Systems and techniques for failsafe detection of vehicle components are provided herein. A system for failsafe detection may include one or more touch sensors determining presence information associated with a number of hands or other appendages an operator of a vehicle has in contact with a steering wheel of the vehicle. The system may include an electronic power steering (EPS) component estimating presence information indicative of whether the operator of the vehicle has hands or other appendages in contact with the steering wheel of the vehicle. The system may include a failsafe component comparing the presence information of the touch sensors with the presence information of the electronic power steering component and generating a component determination for one or more of the touch sensors based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09475521&OS=09475521&RS=09475521
owner: Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
number: 09475521
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150608
---
Touch sensors may be used as replacements for mechanical buttons or as input devices. For example by detecting human body capacitance a capacitive touch sensor may detect the difference between objects which have a different dielectric constant than the dielectric constant of air. However other types of touch sensors may also be used as input devices. For example a resistive touchscreen may be provided in place of a capacitive touchscreen. As with all sensors there is a possibility of failure false positive readings false negative readings etc.

According to one or more aspects a system for failsafe detection includes one or more touch sensors an electronic power steering EPS component and a failsafe component. The touch sensors may determine presence information associated with a number of hands or other appendages an operator of a vehicle has in contact with a steering wheel of the vehicle. The EPS component may estimate presence information indicative of whether the operator of the vehicle has hands or other appendages in contact with the steering wheel of the vehicle. The failsafe component may compare the presence information of the touch sensors with the presence information of the electronic power steering component and generate a component determination for one or more of the touch sensors based on the comparison.

The electronic power steering component may estimate presence information based on readings from one or more torque sensors or one or more steering angle sensors coupled to the steering wheel. The controller area network component may receive a first reading from one or more of the touch sensors and a second reading from one or more of the torque sensors or one or more of the steering angle sensors. One or more of the touch sensors may be mounted to the steering wheel.

The system may include a notification component rendering a notification upon the component determination indicating a failure of one or more of the touch sensors. The failsafe component may determine one or more corrective actions for one or more vehicle components based on the component determination and component dependencies of one or more of the vehicle components. The system may include a lane keep assist component generating one or more lane keep assist actions based on presence information from one or more of the touch sensors. The failsafe component may disable the lane keep assist component based on the component determination indicating a failure of one or more of the touch sensors.

According to one or more aspects a method for failsafe detection includes receiving a first reading from a first set of one or more sensors of a steering wheel of a vehicle the first reading indicative of presence information associated with a number of hands or other appendages an operator of the vehicle has in contact with the steering wheel receiving a second reading from a second set of one or more sensors of the vehicle estimating presence information indicative of whether the operator of the vehicle has hands or other appendages in contact with the steering wheel based on the second reading from the second set of sensors comparing the presence information of the first reading with the presence information of the second reading and generating a component determination for the first set of sensors or the second set of sensors based on the comparison of presence information between the first reading and the second reading.

In one or more embodiments the method may include rendering a notification upon generation of the component determination indicating a failure of the first set of sensors or the second set of sensors. The method may include generating one or more lane keep assist actions based on presence information from the first set of sensors. According to one or more aspects one or more of the lane keep assist actions may be generated based on presence information from the second set of sensors and not the first set of sensors when the component determination is indicative of a failure of the first set of sensors. According to other aspects one or more of the lane keep assist actions may be disabled when the component determination is indicative of a failure of the first set of sensors. In this way the component determination may be indicative of whether a corresponding set of sensors has failed.

According to one or more aspects a system for failsafe detection includes one or more touch sensors an electronic power steering EPS component and a failsafe component. The touch sensors may determine presence information associated with a number of hands or other appendages an operator of a vehicle has in contact with a steering wheel of the vehicle. The EPS component may estimate presence information indicative of whether the operator of the vehicle has hands or other appendages in contact with the steering wheel of the vehicle by taking readings from one or more torque sensors. The failsafe component may compare the presence information of the touch sensors with the presence information of the electronic power steering component generate a component determination for one or more of the touch sensors based on the comparison and determine one or more corrective actions for one or more vehicle components based on the component determination and touch sensor dependencies of one or more of the vehicle components.

In one or more embodiments one or more of the touch sensors may be mounted to the steering wheel. The system may include a notification component rendering a notification upon the component determination indicating a failure of one or more of the touch sensors. The system may include a lane keep assist component generating one or more lane keep assist actions based on presence information from one or more of the touch sensors. One or more of the corrective actions may include disabling the lane keep assist component. The system may include a controller area network component transmitting a disable signal to the lane keep assist component in response to the component determination indicating a failure of one or more of the touch sensors.

Embodiments or examples illustrated in the drawings are disclosed below using specific language. It will nevertheless be understood that the embodiments or examples are not intended to be limiting. Any alterations and modifications in the disclosed embodiments and any further applications of the principles disclosed in this document are contemplated as would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the pertinent art. The following terms are used throughout the disclosure the definitions of which are provided herein to assist in understanding one or more aspects of the disclosure.

A lane keep assist component lane keeping assist system LKAS or a semi autonomous driving system may help a driver or operator of a vehicle maintain a position of a vehicle in a current lane on a roadway. For example a lane keep assist component may provide feedback or steering to turn a vehicle back into a lane if the vehicle is drifting out of the lane. As another example the lane keep assist component may provide similar feedback or steering as lane keep assist actions to mitigate drifting by keeping the vehicle in a center of a lane or otherwise preventing vehicle drift. The lane keep assist component may operate or provide lane keeping assistance when a driver or an operator of a vehicle has at least one hand in contact with a steering wheel of the vehicle.

The steering wheel of a vehicle may be equipped with one or more touch sensors to facilitate detection of presence information indicative of whether a driver has his or her hands or other appendages on the steering wheel . For example one or more of the touch sensors may be mounted to the steering wheel . These touch sensors may take readings such as a first reading indicative of presence information associated with a number of hands or other appendages an operator of the vehicle has in contact with the steering wheel . In other words the touch sensors may detect whether a driver has zero one or two hands or any other appendages such as a knee on the steering wheel . Thus the touch sensors of the steering wheel may determine presence information associated with a number of hands or other appendages on or in contact with a steering wheel of the vehicle. In other embodiments other types of touch sensors may be used such as resistive or piezoelectric sensors.

In one or more embodiments the lane keep assist component may utilize presence information from touch sensors of the steering wheel to enable generation of lane keep assist actions. This presence information may be received over a controller area network component which facilitates communication between different vehicle components or components of a vehicle. In other embodiments presence information from one or more of the touch sensors of the steering wheel may be utilized to enable disable or control other aspects of the vehicle such as a user interface rendered by the notification component a navigation component not shown etc.

As with all sensors or components touch sensors of the steering wheel may fail or malfunction from time to time. When this occurs it may be difficult to determine or pinpoint when the touch sensor has failed the touch sensor is providing false positives or false negatives incorrectly detecting hands on or hands off of the steering wheel etc.

Because one or more vehicle components e.g. the lane keep assist component may use signals or readings from the touch sensor of the steering wheel or readings from a touch steering wheel the failsafe component may generate component determinations which are indicative of whether a vehicle component such as the touch sensor is functional or not. In one or more embodiments the failsafe component achieves this by comparing presence information of a user s or driver s hands or other appendages on the steering wheel received from the touch sensor with estimated presence information regarding the user s hands from an electronic power steering EPS component .

In other words if the detection of the touch sensors of steering wheel does not match the estimation of the EPS component then the system may stop using the steering wheel to determine hands on or hands off for driver sensing purposes. Here in this example if the touch steering wheel sensing result is different than the EPS sensing result e.g. x different results between the two over y seconds the steering wheel touch function may be considered to have failed and other corrective action may be taken accordingly e.g. navigation system locked lane keep assist disable failure notification displayed etc. . In one or more embodiments a threshold number of differing results over a predetermined time period may be used to define a failed component or malfunctioning component for a component determination.

As an example if steering wheel detects that the driver has either both hands on the steering wheel or at least one hand on the steering wheel in order to unlock a navigation system or navigation component not shown for passenger use then the failsafe component may disable the navigation system lock or unlock the navigation system in response to differing or non matching results from the EPS component and the touch sensor of the steering wheel . In one or more embodiments during failsafe detection or comparison if the touch sensor of steering wheel sensing is different than the EPS component X times over Y seconds the failsafe component may generate a determination that the touch sensors of the steering wheel have failed and that the navigation system should be locked and have a failure indication displayed or rendered by the notification component .

Further one or more corrective actions may be taken in the event that the presence information between these two sensors or components e.g. touch sensor and sensors of the electronic power steering component or EPS component does not match up thereby indicating a failure of at least one of the respective sensors or components. Corrective actions may include displaying a failure notification disabling one or more vehicle systems or components which rely on one or more of the sensors or components e.g. etc. .

Regardless the electronic power steering EPS component can estimate whether or not the driver has taken his hands off the wheel in order to warn the driver when he has engaged one or more vehicle components such as the lane keep assist system LKAS or the lane keep assist component . For example the electronic power steering component may generate a hands on or hands off estimation or an estimation of presence information by detecting the amount of torque or force applied to a steering wheel via one or more torque sensors or steering angle sensors . depicts the torque sensor and steering angle sensor as part of the EPS component however it could be part of any other vehicle system.

In other words one or more driving inputs such as torque steering effort steering angle steering wheel angular velocity steering wheel position etc. may be taken using one or more sensors associated with or coupled to the electronic power steering component . Examples of such sensors may include one or more torque sensors one or more steering angle sensors etc. In this way the electronic power steering component may estimate presence information indicative of whether the operator of the vehicle has hands or other appendages in contact with the steering wheel of the vehicle. For example this may be achieved by taking readings from one or more torque sensors or one or more steering angle sensors coupled to the steering wheel . Accordingly readings from these sensors or e.g. different than touch sensors of a steering wheel may be used to estimate presence information or otherwise determine if a driver has his or her hands or other appendages on the steering wheel.

The controller area network component may facilitate communication between different components or sensors of a vehicle. For example the controller area network component may transmit readings from the touch sensor or readings from the torque sensors or steering angle sensors to the failsafe component for analysis. Thus the controller area network component may receive a first reading from a first set of one or more sensors of a vehicle and a second reading from a second set of one or more sensors of the vehicle. For example the first set of sensors could be the touch sensor s and the second set could be the torque sensor s or the steering angle sensor s .

Further the controller area network component may transmit or pass the respective readings on to other components such as the failsafe component . Upon generation of a component determination by the failsafe component the controller area network component may pass or transmit the component determination to other components such as the lane keep assist component or the notification component . In one or more embodiments the controller area network component may be used to notify the touch steering wheel that the touch sensor is malfunctioning and to disable any associated touch sensing functionality for example.

The failsafe component may determine functionality of one or more components using both the touch sensor of the steering wheel and sensors of the electronic power steering component as inputs. In this way the electronic power steering component may act as a failsafe mechanism against the touch sensor of the steering wheel . Stated another way the failsafe component may verify a hands on or a hands off scenario by comparing a hands on or hands off estimation of an electronic power steering EPS component with capacitance readings or results from the touch sensor of the steering wheel . In this way the failsafe component may provide a failsafe determination which acts as a double check for the touch sensor of the steering wheel by comparing presence information of a first reading from a first set of sensors with presence information of a second reading from a second set of sensors.

For example the first set of sensors may be the touch sensor s of the steering wheel and the second set of sensors may be the torque sensor s or the steering angle sensor s of the electronic power steering component . Thus the failsafe component would compare presence information of the touch sensors with presence information of the electronic power steering component . From this the failsafe component may generate a component determination for a first set of sensors or a second set of sensors based on the comparison of presence information between the first and second readings. Effectively the component determination may be a determination which is indicative of whether a corresponding set of sensors has failed. Accordingly in one or more embodiments the failsafe component may generate a component determination for one or more of the touch sensors based on the comparison of presence information from the touch sensors and the sensors or of the electronic power steering component .

Thus in the event that a touch sensor of the steering wheel fails the failsafe component may detect such a failure event communicate this failure to other systems via the controller area network component and disable functions based on the touch sensor or use alternative devices systems components etc. to compensate for the absence of the touch sensor functionality. For example this determination of functionality e.g. component determination may be used as an input for other systems or components such as the lane keep assist component . In other words the failsafe component may compare the output of the touch sensor to an estimation provided by an electronic power steering component as a failsafe for the lane keeping system and generate corrective action accordingly such as by disabling a lane keep assist component which may rely on or utilize readings from the touch sensor . In this way an improved lane keep assist system may be provided.

In one or more embodiments as a default the lane keep assist LKAS component may generate one or more lane keep assist actions based on presence information from the first set of sensors such as the touch sensor . For example a lane keep assist action may include feedback such as vibrating the steering wheel automatic steering actions which cause the vehicle to stay in a lane or mitigate drifting outside of a lane etc. In one or more embodiments the lane keep assist component may utilize a second set of sensors as a backup when a first set of sensors is determined to have failed. In other words the lane keep assist component may generate one or more lane keep assist actions based on presence information from a second set of sensors and not a first set of sensors when a component determination is indicative of a failure of the first set of sensors.

As an example the first set of sensors may be the touch sensors and the second set of sensors may be sensors of the electronic power steering component . Regardless the failsafe component may manage other components such as the lane keep assist component by issuing commands over the controller area network component . The failsafe component may disable one or more of the lane keep assist actions when the component determination is indicative of a failure of the first set of sensors. In other words the failsafe component may determine one or more corrective actions as disabling the lane keep assist component . Here the controller area network component may transmit a disable signal to the lane keep assist component in response to the failsafe component generating a component determination indicative of a failure of one or more of the touch sensors .

In one or more embodiments the failsafe component may determine one or more corrective actions for one or more vehicle components based on the component determination and component dependencies of one or more vehicle components. Vehicle components may include any of the components or sensors of such as the touch sensor the torque sensor the steering angle sensor etc. Component dependencies may include components which use readings signals data or information as inputs. For example a navigation component not shown may be unlocked in response to a hand touching the steering wheel as determined by the touch sensor . Because the navigation component uses information or readings from the touch sensor the navigation component would have a component dependency on the touch sensor in the sense that the touch sensor provides inputs or readings to the navigation component for example.

In one or more embodiments the failsafe component may determine one or more corrective actions for one or more vehicle components based on the component determination and touch sensor dependencies of one or more of the vehicle components such as when the touch sensor is a primary sensor for an application and other sensors may be used as a secondary tertiary or as backups for example. In a scenario where the lane keep assist component has a component dependency on the touch sensor of the steering wheel the failsafe component may disable the lane keep assist component based on a component determination indicating a failure of one or more of the touch sensors .

Corrective actions may include having notifications rendered such as via the notification component . In one or more embodiments the notification component may render a corresponding notification upon generation of the component determination indicating a failure of the first set of sensors or the second set of sensors. For example when the touch sensor fails the notification component may render a notification indicating that the touch sensor has failed. Notifications may include audio visual or tactile feedback.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium including processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more embodiments of the techniques presented herein. An embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein an implementation includes a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data including a plurality of zero s and one s as shown in in turn includes a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the method of . In another embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the system of . Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller may be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Further the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform one or more tasks or implement one or more abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device may include additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage etc. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one or more embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage may store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program etc. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device may be included with device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one or more embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device may include communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example embodiments.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which one or more or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based on this description. Further not all operations may necessarily be present in each embodiment provided herein.

As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . Further an inclusive or may include any combination thereof e.g. A B or any combination thereof . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Further to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Further unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel. Additionally comprising comprises including includes or the like generally means comprising or including but not limited to.

It will be appreciated that various of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives or varieties thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

