---

title: Interleaving angled hexagonal tile for flexible armor
abstract: An interleaving hexagonal tile (AHT) is provided for incorporation onto a liner in an array for a personnel armor clothing article. The AHT includes a hexagonally-symmetric solid object composed of a homogeneous material. The object includes a geometry that has obverse and reverse planar surfaces parallel to each other. Each planar surface has triangularly disposed terminals. First and second triple sets of oblique surfaces are disposed between the obverse and reverse planar surfaces. A plurality of facets is disposed substantially perpendicular to the planar surfaces. The facets connect between edges of the planar surfaces and adjacent edges of the oblique surfaces. The first and second triple sets of oblique surfaces are disposed to alternate with each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09383172&OS=09383172&RS=09383172
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09383172
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150123
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to tiles for body armor. In particular the invention relates to interlocking tiles to provide protection from small arms fire with improved flexibility.

During combat and insurgency patrol military personnel can be subject to small arms fire from gun fired projectile rounds as well as blast and fragmentation from grenades designed to attack flesh. Personnel struck by such weapons can suffer serious or even mortal injury. To reduce vulnerability to combatants from such lethal contacts wearable personnel armor such as a vest with resistant fiber mesh has been developed. Further improvements have integrated high strength intermediary materials to further absorb or deflect kinetic impacts. Such measures have added weight and reduced flexibility for personnel so clad.

Conventional tactical body armor within the United States armed forces consists of small arms protective insert SAPI and Enhanced SAPI ESAPI ceramic trauma plates. The plates vary in performance where the SAPI plates are capable of defeating M80 ball rounds and the ESAPI is capable of defeating 0.30 caliber M2AP rounds. The plates are inserted within an interceptor vest which is capable of stopping 9 mm 19 mm handgun bullets. Conventional ESAPI SAPI plates are comparatively large and bulky and additionally limit flexibility of the wearer.

Conventional body armor yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an angled hexagonal tile AHT to incorporate as an interleaving arrayed plurality for a personnel armor clothing article. The plurality for the array is adhered onto a liner substrate. The AHT includes a hexagonally symmetric solid object composed of a homogeneous material. The object includes a geometry that has obverse and reverse planar surfaces parallel to each other and separated by a thickness. Each planar surface has triangularly disposed terminals. Each obverse terminal is angularly offset to an adjacent reverse terminal.

In exemplary embodiments the terminals on each corresponding planar surface have a length between a vertex at a first terminal and a center point between second and third terminals. A first triple set of obverse facing oblique surfaces is disposed between the obverse and reverse planar surfaces. Each obverse facing oblique surface connects an obverse center point on the obverse planar surface and a corresponding reverse terminal on the reverse planar surface. A second triple set of reverse facing oblique surfaces is disposed between the obverse and reverse planar surfaces.

Each reverse facing oblique surface connects an obverse terminal on the obverse planar surface and a corresponding reverse center point on the reverse planar surface. A plurality of facets is disposed substantially perpendicular to the planar surfaces. The facets connect between edges of the planar surfaces and adjacent edges of the oblique surfaces. The first and second triple sets of oblique surfaces are disposed to alternate with each other.

In various embodiments the object is composed of ceramic. In alternate embodiments the planar surfaces form a contiguous triangular arrangement of hexagons. In other embodiments these surfaces form a triangular boundary terminated by elongated octagons.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments provide an interlocking tile geometry that improves protection of a surface otherwise vulnerable to kinetic collision such as from bullet impact. Such tiles can be arranged between substrate layers to provide contiguous yet flexible shock absorbent material in a wearable clothing article such as in a jacket to protect the wearer s torso. The layers can represent a variety of woven fabrics such as aramid Kevlar and high modulus polyethylene Spectra .

The tile design corresponds to a hexagonally symmetric form to represent an angled hexagonal tile AHT geometry. The AHTs provide three advantages including a angled interfaces that reduce interstitial vulnerability from conventional tiles b force distribution enhances multi impact capability by reduced damage propagation and c adhesion to one surface of the AHTs to a flexible fabric facilitates flexibility with an integrated and contiguous area of body protection from blunt force trauma.

Triple upward facing oblique rectangular wedges concatenate alternatingly with counterpart triple downward facing oblique rectangular wedges . Obverse adjacent triangular edge facets and interweave the wedges and with the obverse surface . Similarly reverse adjacent triangular edge facets and interweave the wedges and with the reverse surface . These triangular facets are substantially perpendicular to the planar surfaces and and thereby at least approximately parallel to y. The planar surfaces and feature three outward obtuse tips flanked by six adjacent obtuse vertices such that three inverse divots are disposed therebetween. Effectively tips and the divots yield overlapping triangles that form a Star of David on the planar surface .

Thickness of the tile between the planar surfaces and is denoted as height H and for exemplary personnel armor can vary based on threat assessments. Expected thickness range between inch and inch. The example height illustrated in view constitutes 0.50 inch 1.27 cm . Distance along the obverse surface between a first tip and its opposite divot on the obverse surface is denoted as length L which for exemplary personnel armor can vary between one inch and five inches depending on requirements. The example length in view measures 1.25 inch 3.175 cm .

The interface angle between the divot on the obverse surface and the adjacent tip on the reverse surface can vary from ten degrees to sixty degrees. The example angle in view is 50.19442891 0.87606 radian . The tips on the obverse surface and the tips on the reverse surface are angularly offset. In the configuration shown this phase offset is 180 radians between the corresponding obverse and reverse tips .

Fore and port units and connect with the tip to divot . At their adjacent vertices the port aft and rear units and connect together at their common junction . Similarly complementary wedges and on adjacent tiles face each other as do triangular facets with complements along with facets with facets with and facets with .

Obverse adjacent triangular edge facets and interweave the wedges and with the obverse surface . Similarly reverse adjacent triangular edge facets and interweave the wedges and with the reverse surface . These obverse adjacent and reverse adjacent triangular facets are substantially parallel to y and join at the intersections with their associated wedges and . The planar surfaces and feature three outward edges joined at chamfered sides of the facets by three inward edges . Effectively centers of the outward edges and the inward edges yield overlapping triangles that form a Star of David on the planar surface .

Arrays and enable force absorption from kinetic impact onto obverse surfaces and by momentary flexing coupled with the plastic deformation of individual tiles and . In particular flexing constitutes angular separation of the respective constituent tiles and from their neighbors. For example for view striking the aft unit causes its downward deflection in the y direction see rose . The adjacent units including and are constrained laterally by their substrate layers not shown and thus deflect by tilting while maintaining protection against subsequent impacts without serious gaps.

Type of AHT deformation depends on composition material. The AHT can be considered to be a homogeneous substantially isotropic material. Ceramic units such as boron carbide BC and silicon carbide SiC can fracture under high compressive and shear loads. Ceramic material can also include boron carbide derivatives such as boron carbide nitride poly 6 cyclooctenyldecaborane and poly 6 norbornenyldecaborane . Other more ductile materials e.g. metals can plastically deform without shattering but at lower yield strengths than typical for ceramics.

To enable the development of flexible body armor that reduces blunt force trauma from a projectile strike reduces vulnerabilities from interstitial joints benefits from decreased weight and increases multi hit capability over conventional designs. The force from bullet impact against an angled hexagonal tile matrix is distributed across multiple tiles while still enabling each individual tile to flex. In addition the angled sides reduce the vulnerabilities of the joining seams where the angled joints can either deflect or dissipate incident threats.

Based on desire to reduce weight increase multi hit capability and enhance flexibility the AHT has been designed to satisfy these requirements. The first AHT design modifies geometry relative to the second AHT design thereby simplifying the production lowering the cost and minimizing the number of interface surfaces to improve the transmission of shock waves across each other instead of the wearer.

The AHT objects can replace the conventional SAPI ESAPI plates with the ceramic AHTs forming equivalent surface area coverage but with fewer gaps for improved bodily protection. Preferably the ceramic materials are composed of either boron carbide or silicon carbide and can be manufactured to near theoretical maximum density to provide optimal material properties. Alternative ceramics can be used including compositions that derive from boron carbide.

The ceramic AHT units are joined together in an array and adhered to a spall liner fabric substrate. After adhesion to the liner the AHTs and or can optionally be encapsulated within polyurea foam. This technique is described in U.S. Patent Application Publication 2012 0312150 incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The exemplary AHTs can be integrated into the body armor system similar to the current SAPI ESAPI plates as inserts. For each exemplary first AHT the six peripheral faces and are angularly disposed in relation to the nominal hexagonal orientation with each AHT having three positively angled wedges and three negatively angled wedges alternating symmetrically back and forth along the periphery.

The adherence of the reverse surface to the spall liner inhibits lateral tile movement. In response to kinetic impact the AHTs direct force on each neighboring tile through the angled wedges and enabling the impact energy to be distributed across all of the AHTs . The angled wedges also reduce the interstitial vulnerability at seams between tiles by eliminating straight through points. This similarly applies to the second AHT .

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

