---

title: System and methods for UICC-based secure communication
abstract: A system that incorporates the subject disclosure may include, for example, instructions which when executed cause a device processor to perform operations comprising sending a service request to a remote management server; receiving from the management server an authentication management function and an encryption key generator for execution by a secure element and an encryption engine for execution by a secure device processor, sending a request to establish a communication session with a remote device; and communicating with the remote device via a channel established using an application server. The secure element and the secure device processor authenticate each other using a mutual authentication keyset. The secure element, the secure device processor and the device processor each have a security level associated therewith; the security level associated with the secure device processor is intermediate between that of the secure element and that of the device processor. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461993&OS=09461993&RS=09461993
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09461993
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150416
---
This application is a Continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 023 932 filed Sep. 11 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference into this application as if set forth herein in full.

The subject disclosure relates to a system and method for secure communications between devices based on a universal integrated circuit card UICC included in those devices.

Wireless communication devices such as cellular phones typically use one or more software applications to provide security related functions. A device may include a universal integrated circuit card UICC which typically can securely store encryption keys and authentication credentials and can execute small applets. The device processor on the other hand can store and execute large and processor intensive applications but is relatively unsecure.

The subject disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments of a system and method for providing secure communication between devices. Other embodiments are included in the subject disclosure.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a device comprising a secure element a secure device processor separate from the secure element a memory to store executable instructions and a device processor separate from the secure device processor and coupled to the memory the secure element and the secure device processor wherein the device processor responsive to executing the instructions performs operations. The operations comprise sending a first request for service to a management server remote from the device receiving from the management server an authentication management function and an encryption key generator for execution by the secure element and an encryption engine for execution by the secure device processor to cause the secure element and the secure device processor to authenticate each other using a mutual authentication keyset authenticating a user of the device using a user interface keyset wherein user credentials are verified by the authentication management function sending a second request for a secure signaling session to a secure application server remote from the device wherein the second request is initiated by the secure device processor receiving from the secure application server a first authentication signal wherein the secure application server is authenticated by the authentication management function using a signaling authentication keyset communicating with the secure application server via a first encrypted channel using a first signaling encryption keyset wherein encryption and decryption of communications over the first encrypted channel is performed by the encryption engine and the first signaling encryption keyset is generated by the encryption key generator sending a third request to the secure application server to establish a communication session with a second device and receiving from the second device a second authentication signal. The second device is authenticated by the authentication management function using a bearer path authentication keyset. The mutual authentication keyset the user interface keyset the signaling authentication keyset the first signaling encryption keyset and the bearer path authentication keyset are distinct keysets.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a method comprising sending by a device comprising a device processor a secure element and a secure device processor separate from the device processor a first request for service to a management server remote from the device receiving by the device from the management server an authentication management function and an encryption key generator for execution by the secure element and an encryption engine for execution by the secure device processor to cause the secure element and the secure device processor to authenticate each other using a mutual authentication keyset wherein the secure element and the secure device processor are separate from each other sending by the device a second request for a secure signaling session to a secure application server remote from the device wherein the second request is initiated by the secure device processor receiving by the device from the secure application server a first authentication signal wherein the secure application server is authenticated by the authentication management function using a signaling authentication keyset communicating by the device with the secure application server via a first encrypted channel using a first signaling encryption keyset wherein encryption and decryption of communications over the first encrypted channel is performed by the encryption engine and the first signaling encryption keyset is generated by the encryption key generator sending by the device a third request to the secure application server to establish a communication session with a second device and receiving by the device from the second device a second authentication signal wherein the second device is authenticated by the authentication management function using a bearer path authentication keyset. The mutual authentication keyset the signaling authentication keyset the first signaling encryption keyset and the bearer path authentication keyset are distinct keysets.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a tangible computer readable storage device comprising instructions which when executed by a device processor cause the device processor to perform operations. The operations comprise sending a first request for service to a management server remote from the device receiving from the management server an authentication management function and an encryption key generator for execution by a secure element and an encryption engine for execution by a secure device processor to cause the secure element and the secure device processor to authenticate each other using a mutual authentication keyset wherein the secure element and the secure device processor are separate from each other and coupled to the device processor authenticating a user using a user interface keyset wherein user credentials are verified by the authentication management function sending a second request to establish a communication session with a remote second device wherein the second request is initiated by the secure device processor and communicating with the second device via a communication channel established using an application server. The secure element the secure device processor and the device processor each have a security level associated therewith and the security level associated with the secure device processor is intermediate between that of the secure element and that of the device processor. The secure element is a universal integrated circuit card the secure element and the secure device processor form a secure service platform separate from the device processor the mutual authentication keyset is provided to the secure service platform by the management server and the management server transmits information to the secure service platform using a remote management keyset. The mutual authentication keyset the user interface keyset and the remote management keyset are distinct keysets.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure depicts an arrangement of a communication device CD connected to a network and provided with a secure services platform enabling authentication of other communication devices and encrypted communication with those devices. It will be appreciated that the communication device may be any device including a user device that has a secure element and a secure device processor and thus has secure communication capability. The term user in this embodiment refers to a human user of the communication device. In other embodiments the user can be a machine that exchanges data with the communication device after being authenticated to the communication device. Communication device includes device processor secure device processor and a secure element . In this embodiment secure element is a universal integrated circuit card UICC . The UICC is a secure computing platform and offers a high level of security for storing encryption keys authentication credentials and the like. The UICC may be removable from the device. Alternatively the UICC may be embedded in the device and not removable. In other embodiments the secure element can be placed on a memory card or an embedded chip. The secure device processor SDP is logically and or physically separate from the device processor and is connected to both the device processor and the UICC. In this embodiment the SDP offers a higher level of security than the device processor and stores and executes secure applications. The SDP can for example run applications in a trusted execution environment. The secure element and secure device processor together form a secure services platform resident on device . In this embodiment secure element secure device processor and device processor each have a security level associated therewith and the security level associated with the secure device processor is intermediate between that of the secure element and that of the device processor . The secure device processor and secure element use mutual authentication as described in more detail below.

The secure element and secure device processor communicate with a management server located remotely from device . The remote management server is a platform for provisioning and managing applications in the secure element and secure device processor. The remote management server also manages data such as keys credentials etc. that are used by the applications.

In this embodiment user device is a wireless communication device connected to a cellular network . Network can also be a WiFi network. In other embodiments device can be connected to other devices via a wired connection through a computer. In still other embodiments user devices may communicate with each other using Bluetooth infrared communications IRDa or near field communications NFC . A communication session between user devices wherein information is transferred between the users can be effected by a wide variety of arrangements. As explained in detail below a secure application server SAS is used in some embodiments to establish a secure communication session between devices. However a secure application server is not used in embodiments where the communication session is established in a peer to peer manner such as in Bluetooth IRDa or NFC.

The remote management server performs a remote provisioning and management function to load applications and content into the UICC and SDP. In this embodiment the remote management server provisions the authentication management function and real time encryption key generator on the UICC and provisions the real time encryption engine on the SDP . This is done securely by the use of one or more remote management keysets. Before the secure services platform can be used for communication the SDP must be authenticated by the UICC. This is done using a UICC SDP keyset. The UICC SDP keyset may be provisioned remotely by the remote management server or locally by an authorized user. In this embodiment after the UICC and SDP are mutually authenticated using the UICC SDP keyset they communicate via a signaling path within the secure services platform . Alternatively the path between the UICC and the SDP may go through the device processor rather than directly between the UICC and the SDP.

Each device must also have a user or in other embodiments a machine that interacts with the device authenticated to that device. User authentication is performed by the authentication management function of the UICC of each device using a user interface keyset respectively. User authentication may involve many types of credentials pin numbers fingerprints retinal scans voice recognition etc. The user interface keysets may be provisioned by the remote management server or locally by an authorized user.

In this embodiment a secure application server is used to establish a communication session between user devices . The remote management server provisions the secure application server with user information related to the secure communication service. The secure application server and the UICC of user device mutually authenticate each other using a signaling authentication keyset the secure application server and the UICC of user device mutually authenticate each other using a signaling authentication keyset . The secure application server can then establish secure signaling sessions with the user devices using signaling encryption keysets respectively. The authentication and encryption keysets are provisioned to the secure application server by the remote management server.

The secure application server creates an unsecure communication session between user devices over a bearer path . The bearer path can include but is not limited to UMTS LTE and WiFi. Mutual authentication between the user devices is performed using a bearer path authentication keyset . If increased security is desired the communication between devices can be encrypted using a bearer path encryption keyset .

In step the remote management server provisions the secure application server SAS with information regarding the user devices . Remote management keyset s are used to securely transmit information from the remote management server to the user devices and to the secure application server . This process involves mutual authentication and encryption.

After the user devices are provisioned the UICC and SDP within each device mutually authenticate each other step . In this embodiment this is done using UICC SDP keysets . In general the UICC SDP keysets used in the two user devices will be distinct keysets. The user of device then authenticates with the device using user interface keyset step . User authentication may be performed using a variety of credentials including pin number fingerprint retinal scan etc. The user s credentials are verified by the authentication management function within the UICC of device . In this embodiment wherein signaling to a secure application server is performed the each of the users must authenticate with their device before establishment of a secure signaling channel to the SAS.

Secure application server is used to set up a secure communication path between the two users through their respective devices user device and user device . The SDP of user device initiates a request for a secure signaling session to the secure application server step . The secure application server and the UICC of user device mutually authenticate each other using a signaling authentication keyset . The secure application server is authenticated by the authentication management function within the UICC of user device .

Once the user device and the secure application server are mutually authenticated an encrypted channel is established between them using the signaling encryption keyset step . The encryption and decryption is performed by the real time encryption engine in the SDP of user device . The signaling encryption keyset is provided to the SDP by the real time encryption key generator within the UICC of user device . The request for the session originating from device in step is passed to the secure application server .

The user of device must authenticate with the device before a signaling session can take place between device and the secure application server . This is done step using user interface keyset which may be different from user interface keyset . The user authentication process is performed by the authentication management function within the UICC of user device . The secure application server then instructs user device to establish a secure signaling session with the SAS step . The secure application server and the UICC of user device mutually authenticate each other using signaling authentication keyset which may be different from signaling authentication keyset . The secure application server is authenticated by the authentication management function within the UICC of user device .

Once mutually authenticated an encrypted channel is established between user device and the secure application server step using signaling encryption keyset which may be different from signaling encryption keyset . The encryption and decryption is performed within the by the real time encryption engine in the SDP of user device . The signaling encryption keyset is provided to the SDP by the real time encryption key generator within the UICC of user device . The request for the session originating from device in step is passed from the secure application server to user device .

In step user device is notified by the secure application server that a session request has been made.

Mutual authentication is then performed directly between user device and user device using the bearer path authentication keyset step . This authentication process is performed by the authentication management functions within the UICC of user device and user device .

User devices and communicate via bearer path step . If either user wishes to increase the security of the communication step that user s device sends a notice to the other device that a bi directional encrypted session is desired step . The SDP of each user device requests a bearer path encryption keyset from the real time encryption key generator within the UICC of that device step . The encryption and decryption is performed by the real time encryption engine in each SDP step . The devices then send notices to the respective users that each user is authenticated and that the communication session is encrypted step .

The first user device and the second user device are each managed and provisioned by remote management server . Remote management keyset is used to securely transmit information from the remote management server to the user devices. Each user device has a UICC and a SDP authenticated by a UICC SDP keyset shown schematically at and respectively.

Each device must also have a user authenticated to that device. In other embodiments the device can interact with a machine instead of a user. User authentication is performed by the authentication management function of the UICC of each device using a user interface keyset respectively. User authentication may involve many types of credentials pin numbers fingerprints retinal scans voice recognition etc. The user interface keysets may be provisioned by the remote management server or locally by an authorized user.

An application server is used to establish an unsecure communication session over a bearer path between the user devices . Alternatively the unsecure communication session can be established directly between the devices for example in a peer to peer arrangement. The bearer path can include but is not limited to UMTS LTE and WiFi. If increased security is desired mutual authentication between the user devices can be performed using a bearer path authentication keyset . The communication between devices can also be encrypted using a bearer path encryption keyset .

After the user devices are provisioned the UICC and SDP within each device mutually authenticate each other step . In this embodiment this is done using UICC SDP keysets . In general the UICC SDP keysets used in the two user devices will be distinct keysets.

In this embodiment an application server is used to set up an unsecure communication path between the two users through their respective devices user device and user device . The SDP of user device begins the process of establishing communication with device by directing a request for a communication session secure signaling session to the application server step . It will be appreciated that in other embodiments use of an application server is optional in setting up an unsecure communication path. For example to establish a peer to peer communication session using Bluetooth or NFC an application server would not be used.

An unsecure communication channel bearer path is established between user devices step . The devices are not required to be authenticated to each other to establish the unsecure bearer path. Both users are notified that the communication channel has been established and is unsecure step . In this embodiment since the communication channel is unsecure the users are not required to authenticate with their respective devices prior to the establishment of the bearer path.

User devices and communicate via unsecure bearer path step . During the communication session either user can determine step that the other user should be authenticated. Alternatively this determination can be made by an automated process. If increased security is desired the users authenticate with their respective devices steps and the devices perform mutual authentication using bearer path authentication keyset step . The users must be authenticated with their respective devices prior to the mutual authentication of the devices to each other. This authentication process is performed by the authentication management functions within the secure element of the respective user devices. If the users were previously authenticated they may be prompted to re authenticate.

If encryption of the communication session is also desired step one user device device in this example notifies the other that bi directional encryption is to be performed step . The SDP of each user device requests a bearer path encryption keyset from the real time encryption key generator within the secure element of that device step . The encryption and decryption is performed by the real time encryption engine in each SDP step . The devices then send notices to the respective users that each user is authenticated and that the communication session is encrypted step .

Communication system can comprise a remote management server located remotely from user communication device . In an embodiment server performs remote provisioning and management functions shown schematically at for user communication devices. User communication device can perform an authentication management and real time encryption key generation functions shown schematically at . Communication system can also comprise a Home Subscriber Server HSS a tElephone NUmber Mapping ENUM server and other network elements of an IMS network . The IMS network can establish communications between IMS compliant communication devices CDs Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN CD and combinations thereof by way of a Media Gateway Control Function MGCF coupled to a PSTN network . The MGCF need not be used when a communication session involves IMS CD to IMS CD communications. A communication session involving at least one PSTN CD may utilize the MGCF .

IMS CDs can register with the IMS network by contacting a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF which communicates with an interrogating CSCF I CSCF which in turn communicates with a Serving CSCF S CSCF to register the CDs with the HSS . To initiate a communication session between CDs an originating IMS CD can submit a Session Initiation Protocol SIP INVITE message to an originating P CSCF which communicates with a corresponding originating S CSCF . The originating S CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to one or more application servers ASs that can provide a variety of services to IMS subscribers. An application server can provide encryption and authentication functions shown schematically at for signaling messages between user devices and the application server. The IMS can support a secure application server as well as an application server.

For example the application servers can be used to perform originating call feature treatment functions on the calling party number received by the originating S CSCF in the SIP INVITE message. Originating treatment functions can include determining whether the calling party number has international calling services call ID blocking calling name blocking 7 digit dialing and or is requesting special telephony features e.g. 72 forward calls 73 cancel call forwarding 67 for caller ID blocking and so on . Based on initial filter criteria iFCs in a subscriber profile associated with a CD one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call originating feature services.

Additionally the originating S CSCF can submit queries to the ENUM system to translate an E.164 telephone number in the SIP INVITE message to a SIP Uniform Resource Identifier URI if the terminating communication device is IMS compliant. The SIP URI can be used by an Interrogating CSCF I CSCF to submit a query to the HSS to identify a terminating S CSCF associated with a terminating IMS CD such as reference . Once identified the I CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to the terminating S CSCF . The terminating S CSCF can then identify a terminating P CSCF associated with the terminating CD . The P CSCF may then signal the CD to establish Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communication services thereby enabling the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications. Based on the iFCs in the subscriber profile one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call terminating feature services such as call forwarding do not disturb music tones simultaneous ringing sequential ringing etc.

In some instances the aforementioned communication process is symmetrical. Accordingly the terms originating and terminating in may be interchangeable. It is further noted that communication system can be adapted to support video conferencing. In addition communication system can be adapted to provide the IMS CDs with the multimedia and Internet services of communication system of .

If the terminating communication device is instead a PSTN CD such as CD the ENUM system can respond with an unsuccessful address resolution which can cause the originating S CSCF to forward the call to the MGCF via a Breakout Gateway Control Function BGCF . The MGCF can then initiate the call to the terminating PSTN CD over the PSTN network to enable the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications. However a PSTN endpoint that does not have a secure element such as a UICC will not be able to establish a secure communication path as described herein.

It is further appreciated that the CDs of can operate as wireline or wireless devices. For example the CDs of can be communicatively coupled to cellular base station a femtocell a WiFi router a Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT base unit or another suitable wireless access unit to establish communications with the IMS network of . The cellular access base station can operate according to common wireless access protocols such as GSM CDMA TDMA UMTS WiMax SDR LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wireless network technologies can be used by one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. Accordingly multiple wireline and wireless communication technologies can be used by the CDs of .

Cellular phones supporting LTE can support packet switched voice and packet switched data communications and thus may operate as IMS compliant mobile devices. In this embodiment the cellular base station may communicate directly with the IMS network as shown by the arrow connecting the cellular base station and the P CSCF .

Alternative forms of a CSCF can operate in a device system component or other form of centralized or distributed hardware and or software. Indeed a respective CSCF may be embodied as a respective CSCF system having one or more computers or servers either centralized or distributed where each computer or server may be configured to perform or provide in whole or in part any method step or functionality described herein in accordance with a respective CSCF. Likewise other functions servers and computers described herein including but not limited to the HSS the ENUM server the BGCF and the MGCF can be embodied in a respective system having one or more computers or servers either centralized or distributed where each computer or server may be configured to perform or provide in whole or in part any method step or functionality described herein in accordance with a respective function server or computer.

For illustration purposes only the terms S CSCF P CSCF I CSCF and so on can be server devices but may be referred to in the subject disclosure without the word server. It is also understood that any form of a CSCF server can operate in a device system component or other form of centralized or distributed hardware and software. It is further noted that these terms and other terms such as DIAMETER commands are terms can include features methodologies and or fields that may be described in whole or in part by standards bodies such as 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . It is further noted that some or all embodiments of the subject disclosure may in whole or in part modify supplement or otherwise supersede final or proposed standards published and promulgated by 3GPP.

To enable these features communication device can comprise a wireline and or wireless transceiver herein transceiver a user interface UI a power supply a location receiver a motion sensor an orientation sensor and a controller for managing operations thereof. The transceiver can support short range or long range wireless access technologies such as Bluetooth NFC ZigBee WiFi DECT or cellular communication technologies just to mention a few. Cellular technologies can include for example CDMA 1X UMTS HSDPA GSM GPRS TDMA EDGE EV DO WiMAX SDR LTE as well as other next generation wireless communication technologies as they arise. The transceiver can also be adapted to support circuit switched wireline access technologies such as PSTN packet switched wireline access technologies such as TCP IP VoIP etc. and combinations thereof.

The UI can include a depressible or touch sensitive keypad with a navigation mechanism such as a roller ball a joystick a mouse or a navigation disk for manipulating operations of the communication device . The keypad can be an integral part of a housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device operably coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a USB cable or a wireless interface supporting for example Bluetooth or NFC. The keypad can represent a numeric keypad commonly used by phones and or a QWERTY keypad with alphanumeric keys. The UI can further include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images to an end user of the communication device . In an embodiment where the display is touch sensitive a portion or all of the keypad can be presented by way of the display with navigation features.

The display can use touch screen technology to also serve as a user interface for detecting user input. As a touch screen display the communication device can be adapted to present a user interface with graphical user interface GUI elements that can be selected by a user with a touch of a finger. The touch screen display can be equipped with capacitive resistive or other forms of sensing technology to detect how much surface area of a user s finger has been placed on a portion of the touch screen display. This sensing information can be used to control the manipulation of the GUI elements or other functions of the user interface. The display can be an integral part of the housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device communicatively coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a cable or a wireless interface.

The UI can also include an audio system that utilizes audio technology for conveying low volume audio such as audio heard in proximity of a human ear and high volume audio such as speakerphone for hands free operation . The audio system can further include a microphone for receiving audible signals of an end user. The audio system can also be used for voice recognition applications. The UI can further include an image sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD camera for capturing still or moving images or sensors for fingerprints or other biometrics.

The power supply can utilize common power management technologies such as replaceable and rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and or charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the communication device to facilitate long range or short range portable applications. Alternatively or in combination the charging system can utilize external power sources such as DC power supplied over a physical interface such as a USB port or other suitable tethering technologies.

The location receiver can utilize location technology such as a global positioning system GPS receiver capable of assisted GPS for identifying a location of the communication device based on signals generated by a constellation of GPS satellites which can be used for facilitating location services such as navigation. The motion sensor can utilize motion sensing technology such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or other suitable motion sensing technology to detect motion of the communication device in three dimensional space. The orientation sensor can utilize orientation sensing technology such as a magnetometer to detect the orientation of the communication device north south west and east as well as combined orientations in degrees minutes or other suitable orientation metrics .

The communication device can use the transceiver to also determine a proximity to a cellular WiFi Bluetooth or other wireless access points by sensing techniques such as utilizing a received signal strength indicator RSSI and or signal time of arrival TOA or time of flight TOF measurements. The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or a video processor with associated storage memory such as Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or other storage technologies for executing computer instructions controlling and processing data supplied by the aforementioned components of the communication device .

Other components not shown in can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. For instance the communication device can include a reset button not shown . The reset button can be used to reset the controller of the communication device . In yet another embodiment the communication device can also include a factory default setting button positioned for example below a small hole in a housing assembly of the communication device to force the communication device to re establish factory settings. In this embodiment a user can use a protruding object such as a pen or paper clip tip to reach into the hole and depress the default setting button. The communication device can also include a slot for adding or removing a memory card or an identity module such as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card. SIM cards can be used for identifying subscriber services executing programs storing subscriber data and so forth.

The communication device as described herein can operate with more or less of the circuit components shown in . These variant embodiments can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

The communication device can be adapted to perform the functions of the media processor the media devices or the portable communication devices of as well as the IMS CDs and PSTN CD of . It will be appreciated that the communication device can also represent other devices that can operate in communication systems of such as a gaming console and a media player.

The communication device shown in or portions thereof can serve as a representation of one or more of the devices of the user communication devices of and communication system . In addition the controller can be adapted in various embodiments to perform the functions of device processor coupled to secure services platform .

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that said embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope of the claims described below.

It should be understood that devices described in the exemplary embodiments can be in communication with each other via various wireless and or wired methodologies. The methodologies can be links that are described as coupled connected and so forth which can include unidirectional and or bidirectional communication over wireless paths and or wired paths that utilize one or more of various protocols or methodologies where the coupling and or connection can be direct e.g. no intervening processing device and or indirect e.g. an intermediary processing device such as a router .

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the subject disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor or controller e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display. The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device . In distributed environments the embodiments described in the subject disclosure can be adapted to utilize multiple display units controlled by two or more computer systems . In this configuration presentations described by the subject disclosure may in part be shown in a first of the display units while the remaining portion is presented in a second of the display units .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices that can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Application specific integrated circuits and programmable logic array can use downloadable instructions for executing state machines and or circuit configurations to implement embodiments of the subject disclosure. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure the operations or methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs or instructions running on or executed by a computer processor or other computing device and which may include other forms of instructions manifested as a state machine implemented with logic components in an application specific integrated circuit or field programmable gate array. Furthermore software implementations e.g. software programs instructions etc. including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein. It is further noted that a computing device such as a processor a controller a state machine or other suitable device for executing instructions to perform operations or methods may perform such operations directly or indirectly by way of one or more intermediate devices directed by the computing device.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the subject disclosure.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth NFC WiFi Zigbee and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE can be used by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The exemplary embodiments can include combinations of features and or steps from multiple embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein can be used in the subject disclosure.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

