---

title: Light component coordination
abstract: A light coordination system for coordinating the operation of multiple lights systems/devices in multiple public safety vehicles is provided. The system includes a detection component that detects at least one vehicle and/or at least one light device on the at least one vehicle, a mode component in communication with the detection component that changes an operating mode of the system based on information from the detection component, an analysis component in communication with the mode component and the detection component that generates a light coordination scheme based on information from the detection component and the mode component, and an implementation component that implements the light coordination scheme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374873&OS=09374873&RS=09374873
owner: 
number: 09374873
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150812
---
This application is a Continuation of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 294 703 entitled LIGHT COMPONENT COORDINATION filed on Jun. 3 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 831 806 entitled LIGHT COMPONENT COORDINATION filed on Jun. 6 2013. The entireties of the above noted applications are herein incorporated by reference.

The innovation disclosed herein relates to lighting systems and more specifically to operating one or more lighting systems in one or more vehicles such as public safety vehicles.

Generally public safety vehicles can be outfitted with emergency vehicle lighting a lighting system etc. Emergency vehicle lighting can include visual warning lights fitted internally or externally to a vehicle and used to convey a sense of urgency or a warning to other drivers or vehicles on the road. A variety of types of optical options light components or light systems are available such as steady burning lamps rotating lights strobe lights light emitting diode LED lighting etc. Additionally light components or light systems can be configured in a variety of ways. For example a light system can be roof mounted a light bar body mounted integrated into a vehicle interior mounted etc.

In the event that more than one public safety vehicle is required at an emergency scene the multiple lights from the first public safety vehicle at the scene can visually impair additional emergency personal as they arrive at the scene or even other motorists passing by the scene.

This brief description is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are described below in the detailed description. This brief description is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one aspect of the innovation a system for operating light systems is provided and includes a plurality of communication devices that detects and communicates with at least one light device and a manual control device that controls the operation of the at least one light device based on the communication of the plurality of communication devices with the at least one light device.

In accordance with another aspect of the innovation a light coordination system for operating light devices is provided and includes a detection component that detects at least one vehicle and or at least one light device on the at least one vehicle a mode component in communication with the detection component that changes an operating mode of the system based on information from the detection component an analysis component in communication with the mode component and the detection component that generates a light coordination scheme based on information from the detection component and the mode component and an implementation component that implements the light coordination scheme.

In one or more embodiments a first vehicle is engaged in a traffic stop can be placed in a coordination mode. This means that the first vehicle is setup to deactivate rear lights of a lighting system of the first vehicle when a second vehicle arrives. In some embodiments the first vehicle can be configured to sense or detect the second vehicle and deactivate the rear lights accordingly. In other embodiments the second vehicle can issue a command to the first vehicle which may deactivate the rear lights upon receipt of the command. In one or more embodiments officers can carry a fob component configured to deactivate the rear lights based on a press of a button for example. It will be appreciated that other embodiments can be implemented to capture the spirit of this disclosure e.g. mitigating vision impediments to officers from lighting systems .

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

Embodiments or examples illustrated in the drawings are disclosed below using specific language. It will nevertheless be understood that the embodiments or examples are not intended to be limiting. Any alterations and modifications in the disclosed embodiments and any further applications of the principles disclosed in this document are contemplated as would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the pertinent art.

The innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the innovation can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the innovation.

For one or more of the figures herein one or more boundaries such as boundary of for example may be drawn with different heights widths perimeters aspect ratios shapes etc. relative to one another merely for illustrative purposes and are not necessarily drawn to scale. For example because dashed or dotted lines may be used to represent different boundaries if the dashed and dotted lines were drawn on top of one another they would not be distinguishable in the figures and thus may be drawn with different dimensions or slightly apart from one another in one or more of the figures so that they are distinguishable from one another. As another example where a boundary is associated with an irregular shape the boundary such as a box drawn with a dashed line dotted lined etc. does not necessarily encompass an entire component in one or more instances. Conversely a drawn box does not necessarily encompass merely an associated component in one or more instances but may encompass a portion of one or more other components as well.

The innovation disclosed herein relates to a system and method of coordinating the operation of one or more lighting systems devices in one or more vehicles e.g. public safety vehicles in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. Vehicle lighting systems may include vehicle light devices such as but not limited to front headlights rear taillights parking lights internal light system light bars emergency lighting systems in public safety vehicles e.g. police fire ambulance etc. etc. As will be described in more detail below the system and method facilitates the coordination of operation of one or more light devices in one or more vehicles either automatically via a coordination system manually remotely via sensors via a key fob etc. It is to be understood that the vehicles referenced herein may be emergency and or non emergency vehicles. For purposes of illustration only from time to time an emergency vehicle and emergency personal e.g. police officer will be referenced to describe the innovative system and method but is in no way limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

When a public safety official e.g. police officer stops a suspect the public safety official may request additional personal to assist. During the stop the public safety official enables one or more light devices in the vehicle lighting system such as a light bar located in the front rear or on top of the vehicle thereby notifying drivers of other vehicles that an emergency vehicle is present. Thus front lights and or rear lights located in the vehicle can alert oncoming or passing traffic of the presence of a public safety official s . Emergency lights in emergency vehicles are bright so as to alert passing traffic the presence of the emergency vehicle.

In addition emergency vehicle lighting devices may be bright to assist the public safety official in nighttime situations so that emergency personal has a clear view of a suspect a suspect s vehicle and or an associated situation. Conversely the suspect or any other individual facing the vehicle generally has an impaired view due to the brightness of the emergency vehicle lighting. In addition the brightness of the emergency vehicle lighting also creates a visual distraction or impairment for any additional public safety officials approaching the scene in another vehicle and for passing motorists. As a result of this any additional public safety officials approaching the scene may not have a clear view of the first public safety official and the suspect or an associated situation which can create a potentially dangerous situation.

Similarly in the event of an accident scene there are typically many emergency vehicles present at the scene all or some of which may have their light systems activated. This situation as in the example above also creates a visual distraction or impairment for any additional public safety officials approaching the scene in another vehicle and for passing motorists.

Referring now to the innovation disclosed herein is a light coordination system that provides a solution to the potentially dangerous situations described above. The light coordination system provides a system and method to coordinate the operation e.g. activate deactivate dim make brighter change beam angle change flashing frequency etc. of one or more lighting systems devices . . . N hereinafter collectively referenced as N in multiple vehicles to thereby reduce the visual impairment of any person or persons approaching the scene and for passing motorists. Any vehicle at a scene that has its light systems devices N altered by a light coordination system is operating in a modified lighting operation. As illustrated in the light coordination system can communicate with one or more light systems devices N in one or more vehicles as necessary.

Similarly as will be discussed in greater detail herein different or multiple light coordination systems may communicate with or manage light systems devices N. In other words after a first public safety official arrives at a scene a second public safety official may utilize a light coordination system to manage a first light system device . When a third public safety official arrives he or she may utilize a different light coordination system to manage the light system devices and of the first and second public safety officials. In this way modularity may be provided such that any number of light coordination systems e.g. A B C etc. may manage communicate or coordinate operation of most any plurality of light systems devices N.

Regardless the light coordination system can be disposed in the emergency vehicle or may be part of any light system device N in the emergency vehicle. In addition the light coordination system may be operated automatically manually from within the vehicle or may be operated remotely via an electronic mobile device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a remote a key fob a PDA a computer a tablet etc. For example a mobile device may have an application installed which enables coordination of most any of the light systems devices N. In addition the light coordination system may respond to voice commands.

Referring to the detection component performs several functions. Specifically the detection component is configured to determine the presence of additional vehicles e.g. presence information and relay that information to the mode component . If another vehicle is detected the mode component will change the mode status explained below of the light coordination system and relays that information back to the detection component . The detection component then determines what if any light systems in the additional vehicles are operating determines the current operating mode of the light coordination systems in the additional vehicles location of the additional vehicles at the scene with respect to each other and detect signals from other light coordination systems at the scene. The detection component can also detect the transmission status e.g. park reverse drive neutral etc. of other vehicles.

The detection component may include communication devices such as but not limited to one or more sensors e.g. proximity sensors motion sensors etc. one or more transmitters and one or more receivers . The sensors are configured to detect the presence of other vehicles that are in a predetermined range of the light coordination system . The sensors may include sensors such as but not limited proximity sensors motion sensors heat sensors etc. Additionally sensors may detect presence information associated with other vehicles based on other detection components affixed to or associated with other vehicles. Detection of any vehicles and or light coordination systems is communicated to the control unit .

The transmitters and receivers are configured to transmit and receive signals to and from other light coordination systems and or light devices N that may be present at the emergency scene. Thus multiple light coordination systems can communicate with each other. In the examples cited above each vehicle at the scene may be equipped with a light coordination system . In this scenario the light coordination systems can communicate with each other to coordinate the operation of the light devices N in each vehicle to create a visually safe environment.

In addition vehicles can be detected in a variety of ways such as Bluetooth RFID NFC telematics timers idle timers proximity sensors seat belt sensors door sensors etc. Similarly transmitting a command or engaging a vehicle in a mode can be based on the aforementioned Bluetooth RFID NFC telematics timers idle timers proximity sensors seat belt sensors door sensors etc. .

Referring to the mode component is configured to activate and manage an operating mode of the light coordination system based on information from the detection component . The mode component can automatically change and or manage the mode of the light coordination system based on information from the detection component . The modes may include a normal non activated mode and a coordination activated mode .

In the normal mode while the light coordination system in a given vehicle is actively sensing other vehicles it is not actively sensing light devices or other light coordination systems and is not transmitting receiving etc. presence information to or from another light coordination system and or to light devices N adapted to receive signals from the light coordination system . In other words a lighting system equipped on a vehicle is generally not affected or influenced by another vehicle equipped with the light coordination system and or another lighting system.

In the coordination mode a vehicle equipped with the light coordination system can be sensing transmitting receiving etc. presence information to or from another vehicle. In other words when the light coordination system is in the coordination mode a lighting system equipped on a vehicle can be affected or influenced by the vehicle equipped with the light coordination system operating in the coordination mode . When a vehicle is in coordination mode this can mean that the lighting system of the vehicle is in coordination mode.

Referring to the analysis component is configured to analyze data from the detection component and the mode component . Based on this data the analysis component generates a light coordination scheme for the various light systems at the scene to provide optimum visibility for all persons at the scene and for passing motorists. More specifically the light coordination scheme can illustrate the activation deactivation of any available combination of light devices to produce the optimum visual results for all those at the scene and for passing motorists.

Information used to generate the light coordination scheme may include data such as but not limited number of vehicles at the scene location of vehicles with respect to each other arrival and or departure of vehicles to and from the scene thus the light coordination scheme is dynamic in that it can constantly update information and change accordingly operation status of all light devices at the scene mode status of other light coordination systems at the scene etc. For example in a scene where there are two vehicles A B one parked in front of the other the light coordination system may analyze the above mentioned data and determine which lights to keep operational activate and or deactivate.

Referring to the implementation component is configured to implement the light coordination scheme provided from the analysis component . The implementation component includes an activation deactivation device that activates and or deactivates light systems as provided by the light coordination scheme of the analysis component . The activation deactivation device may automatically carry out the light coordination scheme based on information from the detection mode and analysis components .

On the other hand the implementation component may include a manual control and be manually controlled with controls inside the vehicle or with an electronic remote device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a key fob a computer a PDA a tablet etc. Thus upon arrival to the scene any subsequent public safety official can activate deactivate any lights as he she deems necessary with or without input from the mode component the analysis component and the light coordination scheme .

For example a second public safety official to the scene can quickly deactivate the rear lights on the first vehicle forward vehicle to allow the public safety official to see more clearly as he she approaches the scene. Specifically as shown in the light devices N may include one or more receivers R that receive the transmitted activation deactivation signal from the public safety official. Thus upon arrival at the scene the public safety official can manually transmit a signal to any light device N and either activate it or deactivate it as he she deems necessary from the controls inside the vehicle or with the electronic remote device.

Referring to is a flow chart illustrating an example method of operating the light coordination system in the example scenario illustrated in in accordance with an aspect the innovation. In this example although the public safety officials specifically police officers will be referenced to illustrate the operation of the light coordination system. It is to be understood that the reference to police officers to illustrate the operation of the light coordination is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to limit the scope of the light coordination system.

In addition for the example illustrated in the light coordination system of the first vehicle will be the primary system used to coordinate the operation of the light devices of the various vehicles. It is to be understood however that the light coordination system from either the second or third vehicle can be the primary system to coordinate the operation of the light devices. Thus any light coordination system present at the scene can be the primary coordination system.

In another embodiment the primary light coordination system at a given scene can change based on several factors such as but not limited to location of all vehicles timing of arrival and or departure of the vehicles number of vehicles at the scene etc.

Still referring to at shortly after the first officer has stopped and pulled over the suspect the second officer in the second vehicle arrives at the scene. At the detection component of the light coordination system C in the first vehicle detects the presence of the second and third vehicle and light devices N associated with each vehicle . At the mode component of the light coordination system C changes mode from normal mode to coordination mode described above. At the detection component of the light coordination system C detects the operation status of the light devices A B on the second vehicle and A B on the third vehicle. At the analysis component of the light coordination system analyzes the detected information from the detection component and generates a coordination scheme described above. At the implementation component of the light coordination system C implements the coordination scheme . At the affected vehicles are switched to operate in the modified lighting operation.

As mentioned above the light coordination scheme can illustrate the activation deactivation scheme of any available combination of light devices to produce the optimum visual results for all those at the scene and for passing motorists. For example in the scene illustrated in and described above the light coordination scheme may illustrate the activation of light device A on the first vehicle and B on the third vehicle and the deactivation of the remaining light devices B A B and A. It is to be understood however that the light coordination scheme can illustrate the activation deactivation of any combination of light devices A B A B A and B.

In another embodiment the light coordination system C C of either the first or second vehicle can automatically modify the light devices based on a detection of the transmission status. For example if the second light coordination device C detects that the first vehicle is in PARK the second light coordination device C can automatically alter the light devices A B A B of both vehicles e.g. deactivate B and activate B . Similarly the third light coordination system C can perform the same function upon arrival of the third vehicle to the scene.

In another embodiment the first light coordination system C can automatically alter the light devices A B A B e.g. deactivate B and activate B of both vehicles upon arrival and detection of the second vehicle . Similarly the second light coordination system C can perform the same function upon arrival of the third vehicle to the scene e.g. deactivate B and activate B .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium including processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more embodiments of the techniques presented herein. An embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein an implementation includes a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data including a plurality of zero s and one s as shown in in turn includes a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the method of . In another embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the system of etc. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller may be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Further the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform one or more tasks or implement one or more abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device may include additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage etc. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one or more embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage may store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program etc. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device may be included with device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one or more embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device may include communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

As an example a method for coordinating one or more light components of one or more vehicles may include one or more of the following according to one or more embodiments. A first vehicle can be engaged in a coordination mode. For example the first vehicle could be a police car at a traffic stop and the coordination mode could be associated with a light system where the front lights are on and the rear lights are on. In other words the coordination mode can be indicative of a police car with a substantial portion of its lights on. A second vehicle can be detected. That is when the first vehicle is engaged in a traffic stop or parked with a first light system on or engaged and a second vehicle pulls in to assist the first vehicle the first vehicle can be configured to detect the second vehicle. The first vehicle can engage in a first modified coordination mode based on detecting the second vehicle. In other words the first vehicle can turn off rear lights of the first lighting system in response to the second vehicle arriving. In one or more embodiments the first vehicle can engage in a first modified coordination mode when the second vehicle engages in coordination mode. In other words the first police car will disable the rear lights on the first police car light bar when the second police car enables the second police car light bar.

In one or more embodiments one or more commands can be issued or a vehicle can enter a modified coordination mode when it is detected that a vehicle is in park. For example a second vehicle can enter coordination mode when a first vehicle is detected and the first vehicle is in park and also in coordination mode. In other words a second police car can automatically deactivate its front light when a first police car is parked and has both front and rear lights engaged. Additionally modified coordination mode can be entered by a fob component manipulated by an officer.

In other embodiments coordinating one or more light components of one or more vehicles may be implemented in other ways. For example a command may be sent to one or more vehicles e.g. equipped with receivers to engage in the modified coordination mode. A first vehicle may be detected to be in a coordination mode e.g. have both front and rear lights active . A command can be transmitted to the first vehicle to engage the first vehicle in a first modified coordination mode. What this means is that the command can turn off the rear lights of the first vehicle. In one or more embodiments this command can be issued when the first vehicle is detected to be in the coordination mode and stopped for example. Here an individual such as a public safety official may utilize a device such as a key fob to have the light system of the first vehicle turn the rear lights off. In other embodiments this may occur automatically when the second officer engages his or her light system and is in proximity of the scene. The second vehicle can engage in a second modified coordination mode. As an example the light system of the second vehicle can be configured to have the rear lights on and the front lights off. In this way the police officer from the first vehicle may not have his or her vision impaired from the light system of the second vehicle.

Embodiments of managing coordinating or controlling one or more lighting systems on one or more vehicles are disclosed. As an example when a first vehicle outfitted with a first vehicle lighting system such as a first police car pulls a suspect vehicle over the first vehicle lighting system may be in a coordination mode where a front portion and a rear portion are both on. When a second vehicle outfitted with a second vehicle lighting system such as a second police car arrives the rear portion of the first vehicle lighting system can be disabled dimmed or modified such that light from the first vehicle lighting system is mitigated from impeding a view of the second officer.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example embodiments.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which one or more or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based on this description. Further not all operations may necessarily be present in each embodiment provided herein.

As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . Further an inclusive or may include any combination thereof e.g. A B or any combination thereof . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Further to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Further unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel. Additionally comprising comprises including includes or the like generally means comprising or including but not limited to.

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur based on a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

