---

title: Cloud-based multi-layer security architecture with firewalled virtual network portions
abstract: A virtual network may include a web application firewall (WAF) portion to receive network traffic for one or more other portions of the virtual network; a first firewall connected to the WAF; a web server portion, connected to the first firewall, to receive web traffic; a second firewall connected to the web server portion; an application server portion, connected to the second firewall, to perform application services for one or more servers of the web server portion; a third firewall connected to the application server portion; a database server portion connected to the third firewall; a fourth firewall connected to the database server portion, the application server portion, and the web server portion; an active directory portion, connected to the fourth firewall, to perform authentication of one or more access requests; and a utility portion, connected to the first firewall and the fourth firewall.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432335&OS=09432335&RS=09432335
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 09432335
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20150707
---
A cloud based computing platform may be utilized to operate a set of servers associated with a web platform. The cloud based computing platform may include a scalable set of computing resources that may be selectively assignable to a particular portion of the web platform or to perform a particular function of the web platform. For example a user of the cloud based computing platform may request and may be provided a first quantity of computing resources to manage a first quantity of demand and a second quantity of computing resources to manage a second quantity of demand.

According to some possible implementations a virtual network may include a web application firewall WAF portion to receive network traffic for one or more other portions of the virtual network. The virtual network may include a first firewall connected to the WAF. The virtual network may include a web server portion connected to the first firewall to receive web traffic. The web server portion may include a customer portal server. The virtual network may include a second firewall connected to the web server portion. The virtual network may include an application server portion connected to the second firewall to perform application services for one or more servers of the web server portion. The application server portion may include a set of application servers. The virtual network may include a third firewall connected to the application server portion. The virtual network may include a database server portion connected to the third firewall. The database server portion may include a set of database servers accessible by one or more application servers of the set of application servers. The virtual network may include a fourth firewall connected to the database server portion the application server portion and the web server portion. The virtual network may include an active directory portion connected to the fourth firewall to perform authentication of one or more access requests associated with the virtual network. The virtual network may include a utility portion connected to the first firewall and the fourth firewall including a set of security utilities for other portions of the virtual network.

According to some possible implementations a system may include a plurality of virtual networks. A virtual network of the plurality of virtual networks may be associated with a web platform. The virtual network may include a plurality of firewalls to filter network traffic between portions of the virtual network. The portions of the virtual network may include a web application firewall WAF portion connected to a first firewall of the plurality of firewalls to receive network traffic from a device and establish a reverse proxy with one or more other portions of the virtual network to route the network traffic from the device. The portions of the virtual network may include a web server portion connected to the first firewall and a second firewall of the plurality of firewalls to receive web traffic from the WAF portion via the first firewall and generate an application request. The portions of the virtual network may include an application server portion connected to the second firewall and a third firewall of the plurality of firewalls to receive the application request from the web server portion via the second firewall and generate a database request. The portions of the virtual network may include a database server portion connected to the third firewall to receive the database request from the application server portion via the third firewall and provide information from a database server of the database server portion.

According to some possible implementations a method may include receiving by a device of a group of devices of a virtual network a product order. The product order may relate to a take out or delivery of a product. The method may include routing by a device of the group of devices of the virtual network the product order to a web application firewall WAF portion of a production virtual network. The WAF portion may be associated with selectively filtering received network traffic. The method may include routing by a device of the group of devices of the virtual network the product order from the WAF portion to a customer portal web server of a web portion of the production virtual network via a first firewall of the production virtual network. The first firewall may be associated with selectively filtering received network traffic. The method may include routing by a device of the group of devices of the virtual network an application request associated with the product order from the customer portal web server to an application server of an application portion of the production virtual network via a second firewall of the production virtual network. The application request may be generated by the customer portal web server based on the product order. The second firewall may be associated with selectively filtering received network traffic. The method may include routing by a device of the group of devices of the virtual network a database request associated with the application request from the application server to a database server of a database portion of the production virtual network via a third firewall of the production virtual network. The database request may be generated by the application server based on the application request. The third firewall may be associated with selectively filtering received network traffic.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

A cloud based computing platform may facilitate scalable allocation of computing resources such as processing resources storage resources routing resources or the like. A user of the cloud based computing platform may request a first quantity of resources at a first time and a second quantity of resources at a second time. Additionally or alternatively allocation of resources may occur automatically as a functionality of the cloud based computing platform and without the user being required to manually configure the allocation of resources. The cloud based computing platform may support a web platform e.g. a website supported by a cloud based platform such as a web platform associated with facilitating ordering and delivery of a food product or another type of web platform.

However the web platform may include secure information inadvertent release of which may be detrimental to an operator of the web platform customers of the web platform or the like. Implementations described herein may utilize a multi layered security architecture with multiple firewalled portions to provide security for a cloud based computing platform associated with operating a web platform. In this way the cloud based computing platform may facilitate improved information security reliability or the like relative to another computing platform that does not utilize layered security cloud scalability or the like for information security.

Service provider network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example service provider network may include a cellular network e.g. a long term evolution LTE network a third generation 3G network a code division multiple access CDMA network etc. a public land mobile network PLMN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a private network an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a cloud computing network an enterprise network or the like and or a combination of these or other types of networks. In some implementations service provider network may include a backbone network such as a backbone network of a telecom service provider an internet service provider or the like. For example service provider network may include an Internet protocol multiprotocol label switching IP MPLS backbone network associated with providing interconnectivity to multiple sub networks data centers or the like.

Cloud network and or another cloud network described herein e.g. cloud network or the like may include a cloud based computing platform providing one or more computing resources such as a Microsoft Azure cloud an Amazon web services Amazon AWS cloud or the like. For example cloud network may include one or more servers routers gateways switches hubs data storage units or the like assignable for one or more functionalities of a web platform. In some implementations cloud network may facilitate scaling of computing resources. For example cloud network may assign a first quantity of computing resources for processing user requests for food delivery at a first time and a second quantity of computing resources for processing user requests for food delivery at a second time based respectively on computing resource demand at the first time and the second time. In some implementations cloud network may include a set of virtual networks. A virtual network may include a set of computing resources conceptually grouped with a set of virtualized network links. For example the virtual network may include a set of virtual machines a set of virtual firewalls or the like that are connected via one or more virtual network links.

In some implementations cloud network may include a set of servers gateways firewall devices or the like. For example cloud network may include a set of physical servers providing assignable computing resources a set of virtualized servers representing the assignable computing resources or the like. A server as described herein may refer to a physical server that is associated with cloud network a virtualized server e.g. a conceptual representation of computing resources that are at least partially implemented in hardware and are allocated by cloud network for a particular functionality or the like. In some implementations a server may represent a group of servers. For example although a production virtual network described herein may be described as including a customer portal server the production virtual network may include a group of customer portal servers e.g. 5 servers 10 servers 20 servers or the like that may be scaled based on demand for access to the customer portal. Similarly a gateway device may refer to a physical gateway device a virtualized gateway device e.g. a set of computing resources that are at least partially implemented in hardware and are assigned to perform one or more functionalities of a gateway device or the like. In other words a virtual network may be assigned a set of computing resources which may be conceptually described as servers gateways firewalls or the like.

Cloud network may include in the set of virtual networks a build virtual network in some implementations. For example cloud network may designate a portion of computing resources e.g. Servers A as allocated for functionalities of the build virtual network. Similarly cloud network may include a development Dev virtual network a quality assurance testing QAT virtual network and an end to end testing E2E virtual network with portions of computing resources allocated thereto e.g. servers 1 B 1 C and 1 D respectively . Similarly cloud network may include a staging virtual network e.g. with computing resources Servers E a production virtual network e.g. with computing resources Servers F a utility virtual network e.g. with computing resources Servers G and a gateway device e.g. a quantity of computing resources allocated for performing network gateway functions . In some implementations cloud network may include a resource allocation management device associated with dynamically scaling computing resources of one or more portions of cloud network . For example cloud network may utilize a scaling controller e.g. a resource allocation management device that selectively allocates and or reallocates computing resources to assign a quantity of computing resources to a portion of cloud network .

Cloud network may include a set of virtual networks in some implementations. For example cloud network may include a utility virtual network e.g. with computing resources Servers H a staging virtual network e.g. with computing resources Servers I a production virtual network e.g. with computing resources Servers J and a gateway device. Collectively cloud network and cloud network and or one or more other similar cloud networks may support a web platform such as an end to end ecommerce platform for food delivery in some implementations. For example cloud network and cloud network may facilitate order processing store administration inventory management or the like.

Some virtual networks of cloud network may correspond to other virtual networks of cloud network . For example a first production virtual network of cloud network may correspond to a second production virtual network of cloud network . In this case network traffic may be routed to one of the first production virtual network or the second production virtual network based on a set of load balancing criteria a set of backup criteria a set of geographic criteria or the like. For example cloud network may be established for managing network traffic associated with the East Coast of the United States cloud network may be established for managing network traffic associated with the West Coast of the United States and one or more other cloud networks may be established for managing other network traffic as backup cloud networks or the like. In this way cloud network and cloud network may increase web platform robustness relative to a single cloud network based on facilitating redundancy of virtual networks.

Additionally or alternatively some virtual networks of cloud network may not correspond to other virtual networks of cloud network . For example testing operations may be designated as non critical operations e.g. if one or more computing resources associated with performing program code testing are unavailable operation of the web platform may remain unaffected for customers . In this case testing operations may be performed in cloud network utilizing the development QAT and E2E virtual networks and corresponding virtual networks may not be established in cloud network . In this way resource allocation is reduced e.g. by not duplicating testing operations and program code continuity may be improved e.g. by reducing a likelihood of discontinuity resulting from testing operations being performed in multiple different environments without centralized control relative to a configuration that duplicates testing operations across each cloud network. The set of virtual networks are described in additional detail with regard to .

Franchisor data center may include one or more data centers operated by a franchisor. For example franchisor data center may include a gateway device a set of computing resources e.g. Servers K and a set of store devices e.g. Store Devices L . The set of store devices may refer to one or more devices e.g. point of sale POS devices associated with receiving an order for food delivery from a store location generating pricing information for the order assigning the order for fulfillment by the store location e.g. adding items of the order to a preparation queue or the like. In some implementations the set of store devices may include multiple types of store devices associated with multiple information formats. For example a first store location may utilize a first type of store device and a second store location may utilize a second type of store device. In this case one or more portions of cloud network cloud network or the like may be designated for altering an order received via a web platform to a format associated with a particular store device associated with a store location assigned for fulfilling the order.

Franchisee data center may include one or more data centers operated by a franchisee of the franchisor. For example a commercial entity separate from the franchisor may operate a set of store locations as a franchisee of the franchisor and may operate a data center with a set of computing resources e.g. a gateway device a set of servers M a set of store devices N etc. separated from franchisor data center for managing store operations order allocation or the like but may utilize the same web platform as the franchisor and or one or more franchisees thereof that lack a separate data center . In this case one or more computing resources of franchisee data center may provide information to the web platform e.g. via cloud network cloud network etc. receive information from the web platform or the like.

Operator data center may include one or more data centers operated by an operator of the web platform. For example the franchisor may contract with the operator to provide services for the web platform relating to operation such as security services maintenance services program code generation testing and updating services or the like. In this case the operator may utilize an operator data center with a set of gateway devices a set of computing resources e.g. Servers O or the like to perform one or more functionalities associated with operating the web platform of cloud network cloud network or the like.

Security assessment device may refer to one or more devices associated with performing a security assessment for a cloud network one or more devices and or computing resources of the cloud network a web platform associated with the cloud network or the like. For example security assessment device may include a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone e.g. a smart phone a radiotelephone etc. a server or a similar type of device. In some implementations security assessment device may be associated with a set of threat assessment levels as described in detail with regards to . In some implementations security assessment device may communicate with and or control one or more devices and or computing resources described herein to obtain information regarding a security situation monitor a security situation remediate a security situation perform a response action to a security situation classify a security situation assign one or more tasks to one or more users based on a security situation or the like. Although security assessment device is depicted as being included in operator data center security assessment device may be included with another group of devices such as in cloud network cloud network operator core data center or the like.

Operator core network include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example operator core network may include a cellular network a PLMN a LAN a WAN a MAN a telephone network a private network an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a cloud computing network an enterprise network or the like and or a combination of these or other types of networks. In some implementations operator core network may facilitate connectivity between one or more computing resources of operator data center and one or more computing resources of operator core data center .

Operator core data center may include one or more data centers operated by the operator of the web platform. For example the operator may utilize a set of operator data centers that communicate directly with cloud network cloud network or the like and a set of operator core data centers that provide backend services for operator data centers . In some implementations operator core data center may include a set of computing resources e.g. a gateway device Servers P or the like .

In this way environment may utilize cloud networks allocated into groups of virtual networks to facilitate multi layer security within a virtual network e.g. by utilizing cloud scalability functionalities to operate layers of security that could require an infeasible quantity of resources if the resources were allocated in a fixed manner security designed hub and spoke configured virtual networks for program code testing and implementation operations e.g. by utilizing cloud scalability functionalities to separate testing and implementation operations into multiple separated virtual networks that are allocated resources in a scaling manner and security operations e.g. by utilizing virtualization to reallocate and reconfigure portions of environment on an as needed basis to respond to security situations .

The number and arrangement of devices computing resources and networks shown in are provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices computing resources and or networks fewer devices computing resources and or networks different devices computing resources and or networks or differently arranged devices computing resources and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices and or computing resources shown in may be implemented within a single device or computer resource allocation or a single device and or computing resource allocation shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices and or computing resources. Additionally or alternatively a set of devices e.g. one or more devices and or computing resources of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of devices and or computing resources of environment .

As shown in cloud network may include a gateway device that facilitates a direct connection to cloud network . For example a server of operator data center may utilize a direct connection associated with gateway device to access control and or utilize computing resources of cloud network e.g. a Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute connection an Amazon AWS Direct Connect connection etc. . In some implementations gateway device may include an MPLS gateway device a virtualized gateway device or the like.

As shown cloud network may include a build virtual network which may connect to development virtual network e.g. a group of development servers QAT virtual network e.g. a group of QAT servers E2E virtual network e.g. a group of E2E testing servers staging virtual network e.g. a group of staging servers and or production virtual network e.g. a group of production servers . In some implementations development virtual network QAT virtual network and or E2E virtual network may be configured as different virtual networks. Additionally or alternatively development virtual network QAT virtual network and or E2E virtual network may be configured as portions of the same virtual network such as sub virtual networks computing resource groups or the like.

As further shown in build virtual network may facilitate development of a web platform using a hub and spoke development environment. For example when a developer generates program code for utilization in the web platform the program code is provided to a build server of build virtual network . In some implementations build virtual network may progress a development update through multiple different stages of development of the hub and spoke development environment. For example build virtual network may provide a development update e.g. a program code for altering the web platform to development virtual network as a first stage of development may receive information indicating that a set of testing criteria of development virtual network are satisfied by the development update and may provide the development update to QAT virtual network as a second stage of development. Similarly build virtual network may provide the development update as a first stage of development to staging virtual network and may subsequently provide the development update as a second stage of development to production virtual network .

In some implementations the build server may store the program code perform authentication of the program code e.g. determine that the user is authorized to provide the program code for the web platform perform version control on the program code perform documentation of the program code perform security scanning of the program code e.g. determining that the program code lacks malicious code or the like. In some implementations build virtual network may facilitate establishment of a virtual machine with which a user may control authentication of the program code version control of the program code or the like.

In some implementations cloud network may scale computing resources to facilitate performing authentication of the program code version control of the program code or the like. For example when the program code is provided for scanning cloud network may allocate a first quantity of computing resources to build virtual network to perform scanning and when scanning is completed cloud network may assign a second quantity of computing resources to build virtual network . Additionally or alternatively a scaling controller of cloud network may scale computing resources to facilitate performing one or more tests on a development update e.g. on the program code . For example when development virtual network is directed to perform one or more tests on the program code the scaling controller may allocate a first quantity of computing resources to development virtual network and when development virtual network has competed the one or more tests the scaling controller may allocate a second quantity of computing resources to development virtual network that is less than the first quantity of computing resources.

Based on separating the functionalities of program code testing into multiple different virtual networks cloud network may increase security of program code testing relative to performing testing on a single computing device however establishing multiple different virtual networks may be resource intensive. Based on utilizing cloud based scaling of computing resources cloud network may achieve security benefits associated with separating program code testing into multiple different virtual networks and reduce resource allocation by allocating computing resources to each virtual network on an as needed basis relative to allocating resources to each virtual network on a fixed basis.

As shown by reference number the build server may provide a copy of the program code to a development server of development virtual network e.g. via a virtualized network link . In some implementations the development server may perform one or more tests on the program code. For example the development server may utilize a set of use cases to test the program code and determine whether the program code performs as intended. Further to the example the development server determines that the program code fails the set of use cases. In this case assume the development server may provide information associated with failing a development test e.g. a test associated with the set of use cases such as information identifying a portion of the program code associated with the failure information identifying a module associated with the failure information identifying the set of use cases or the like. Further to the example the development server may provide information to the build server associated with causing the program code to be rejected. In this case the program code may be replaced by other program code for testing via development virtual network . As another example the development server may determine that the program code passed the set of use cases and may provide information to the build server indicating that the program code passed the set of use cases as shown by reference number .

Based on receiving information indicating that the program code passed the set of use cases and or one or more testing criteria of development virtual network the build server of build virtual network may generate information associated with the program code in some implementations. For example the build server may provide information indicating that the program code passed the set of use cases and may update information associated with tracking a development lifecycle of the program code. In this case the build server may cause the information to be provided to a client device being operated by a developer managing program code testing a data structure tracking the development lifecycle of the program code or the like. As shown by reference number the build server may provide the program code to a QAT server of QAT virtual network based on receiving information indicating that the program code passed the set of use cases of development virtual network .

In some implementations the QAT server may perform QAT testing on the program code. For example the QAT server may perform unit testing on the program code static code analysis data flow analysis metrics analysis code coverage analysis and or another type of program code testing. As an example the QAT server may determine that the program code does not pass on or more QAT tests and may cause the program code to be rejected by the build server. In this case when other program code is generated to replace the program code the build server may perform version control on the program code and the other program code and may cause the other program code to be provided for testing via development virtual network . As another example the QAT server may determine that the program code passed QAT testing. In this case the QAT server may provide to the build server of build virtual network information associated with indicating that the program code passed the QAT testing such as testing results or the like as shown by reference number .

Based on receiving information indicating that the program code passed the QAT testing and or one or more testing criteria associated with QAT virtual network the build server of build virtual network may generate information associated with the program code in some implementations. For example the build server may provide information to the client device utilized by the developer indicating that the program code passed the QAT testing. Additionally or alternatively the build server may provide information associated with comparing the program code to other program code based on the QAT testing. As shown by reference number the build server may provide the program code to an E2E server of E2E virtual network based on receiving information indicating that the program code passed the QAT testing.

In some implementations the E2E server may perform E2E testing on the program code. For example the E2E server may perform one or more tests associated with determining whether the program code integrates properly with one or more other modules of the web platform e.g. integration with a Hybris data hub integration with an Apigee application programming interface API or the like . Additionally or alternatively the E2E server may determine whether the program code integrates with one or more data structures one or more network connections or the like.

In some implementations the E2E server may determine that that the program code does not pass one or more E2E tests. For example the E2E server may determine that the program code does not integrate properly with a server associated with the web platform and may provide information to the build server of build virtual network indicating that the program code does not pass the E2E testing. In this case the build server may perform version control provide information regarding the E2E testing or the like. When build virtual network receives a subsequent version of the program code the build server may process the subsequent version and provide the processed subsequent version to development virtual network as described above in connection with reference number . In some implementations the E2E server may determine that the program code passes the E2E testing. For example the E2E server may determine that the program code properly integrates with the server associated with the web platform. In this case the E2E server may provide to the build server of build virtual network information associated with indicating that the program code passed the E2E testing such as testing results or the like as shown by reference number .

Based on receiving information indicating that the program code passed the E2E testing the build server of build virtual network may generate information associated with the program code in some implementations. For example the build server may provide information to the client device utilized by the developer indicating that the program code passed the E2E testing may update information associated with tracking the development lifecycle of the program code may perform version management for the program code or the like. Based on the program code passing the E2E testing e.g. satisfying one or more criteria of E2E virtual network the build server may provide the program code to a staging server of staging virtual network as shown by reference number .

In some implementations the staging server may facilitate pre production evaluation of program code such as by testing incorporation of the program code into a module that is utilized in production virtual network . For example staging virtual network may correspond to and or resemble production virtual network e.g. a virtual network associated with the web platform and the staging server may execute the program code to determine whether the program code will operate as intended when utilized by the module in production virtual network . In some implementations the staging server may perform a set of pre production tests on the program code. For example the staging server may facilitate user experience testing user acceptance testing compatibility testing e.g. determining whether the program code is compatible with hardware and or software configurations of production virtual network or the like.

In some implementations the staging server may provide to a build server of build virtual network information indicating that the program code does not pass a set of pre production tests. For example the staging server may indicate that the program code caused undesired behaviors in a version of the web platform associated with staging virtual network corresponding to and or resembling the web platform associated with production virtual network . In this case the build server may cause other program code to be provided for testing via development virtual network as a potential replacement for the program code. In some implementations the staging server may provide information indicating that the program code passed the set of pre production tests. For example the staging server may provide information indicating that the program code satisfies a set of user experience thresholds a set of performance threshold or the like as shown by reference number .

Based on receiving information indicating that the program code passed the set of pre production tests and or satisfied one or more testing criteria associated with staging virtual network the build server of build virtual network may generate information associated with the program code in some implementations. For example the build server may provide information to the client device utilized by the developer indicating that the program code passed the set of pre production tests may update information associated with tracking the development lifecycle of the program code may perform version management for the program code or the like. In some implementations the build server may cause the program code to be scheduled for integration into production virtual network e.g. to the web platform associated with production virtual network . For example the build server may add the program code to a scheduled update may provide information indicating that the program code is in a condition that is ready for release or the like.

As shown by reference number based on the program code passing tests associated with development virtual network QAT virtual network E2E virtual network and staging virtual network build virtual network may cause the program code to be provided to a production server of production virtual network for utilization with the web platform. For example the build server may cause a portion of the web platform to be adjusted to integrate the program code.

If at any stage build virtual network receives information indicating that the program code has not passed a set of tests and build virtual network receives a subsequent version of the program code the build server may process the subsequent version of the program code and provide the processed subsequent version of the program code to development virtual network . In this way build virtual network may ensure that a subsequent version of the program code has not been altered in a way that causes the subsequent version to fail the set of tests and or another set of tests that are intended to be performed on program code.

In this way a build virtual network may utilize a hub and spoke configuration to facilitate development testing and integration of program code for a web platform. By centralizing administration of the development testing and integration of the program code with the build virtual network the build virtual network may facilitate improved authentication of program code reduced likelihood of misuse or misrepresentation of program code improved version control for the program code improved documentation of the program code improved security scanning for the program code or the like relative to a non centralized environment. By utilizing different virtual networks for each phase of testing the build virtual network may reduce relative to a single testing environment a likelihood of malicious alteration of a testing environment to cause malicious program code to pass tests of the testing environment.

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in a conceptual illustration of portions of example environment may include a first security level zone and a second security level zone . A security level zone may refer to a zone e.g. a conceptual representation of a set of portions of cloud network cloud network or the like satisfying a particular level of security. For example first security level zone may include portions of cloud network satisfying compliance with payment card industry data security standard PCI compliance compliance with personally identifiable information data security standard PII compliance or the like and second security level zone may include portions of cloud network not satisfying PCI compliance PII compliance or the like.

In some implementations first security level zone may include build virtual network staging virtual network production virtual network a utility virtual network e.g. a virtual network providing one or more functionalities for one or more other virtual networks such as providing a set of security utilities a code documentation utility or the like and a gateway device . For example each of build virtual network staging virtual network production virtual network utility virtual network and gateway device may be configured to be PCI compliant. In some implementations second security level zone may include development virtual network QAT virtual network E2E virtual network and a gateway device . For example each of development virtual network QAT virtual network E2E virtual network and gateway device may be configured without PCI compliance.

Utility virtual network may refer to a virtual network e.g. of cloud network cloud network or the like associated with providing utilities for one or more other virtual networks. For example utility virtual network may include a set of tools such as a security tool e.g. a malicious file scanning tool a file integrity monitoring tool a logging tool or the like that may be utilized by computing resources of one or more other portions of cloud network . In this case a server of a portion of production virtual network may utilize a malicious file scanning tool of utility virtual network to determine whether a received file is a malicious file.

In some implementations cloud network may allocate a quantity of computing resources to utility virtual network for a terminal services module that provides remote computer and virtual machine control to a remote user such as a developer operating a client device of operator data center or the like. In some implementations the terminal services module may be associated with a firewall. For example the terminal services module may be associated with a network security group NSG firewall e.g. a top level object associated with a set of access control rules utilized to determine whether to allow traffic to a virtual machine such as the terminal services module. In some implementations utility virtual network may be designated for PCI compliance based on utilization of tools of utility virtual network by multiple virtual networks that are PCI compliant. In this way cloud network may avoid an exploit of utility virtual network being utilized to gain access to PCI information of a PCI compliant virtual network.

In some implementations first security level zone may utilize a different authorization compared with second security level zone . For example gateway device may utilize multi factor authentication such as two or more of a knowledge security element e.g. a password a personal identification number an answer to a security question a possession security element e.g. a security token a user security element e.g. a fingerprint identification a retina identification a voice identification or the like. By contrast gateway device may utilize single factor authentication. In this way first security level zone may provide a higher level of security for virtual networks associated therewith than second security level zone . Providing a higher level of security may be more resource intensive less flexible or the like relative to a lower level of security. Cloud network and or cloud network may utilize the higher level of security for virtual networks associated with the web platform to avoid inadvertent disclosure of customer data malicious alteration to the web platform or the like thereby resulting in an enhanced security condition relative to a non PCI compliant web platform. Moreover cloud network and or cloud network may utilize the lower level of security for testing environments thereby relative to requiring PCI compliance for testing environments reducing resource allocation and increasing flexibility for testing environments in which security information is less likely to be located and with which customers do not interact.

In some implementations first security level zone e.g. portion of cloud network conceptually represented as included in first security level zone may receive traffic from network e.g. Internet traffic from a customer utilizing user device to place an order with production virtual network via the web platform such as an order for food delivery via a food delivery web platform or another type of product delivery via another type of web platform. User device may include one or more devices such as a mobile phone a computer a video game console or another type of device that may be utilized to access a web platform. Additionally or alternatively first security level zone may receive traffic from service provider network via gateway device e.g. a terminal services device receiving virtual private network traffic from a developer associated with franchisor data center franchisee data center and or operator data center .

In some implementations second security level zone may receive traffic from service provider network and from first security level zone e.g. program code promoted from build virtual network utility functionalities from utility virtual network or the like . For example program code may be promoted from build virtual network to development virtual network QAT virtual network and or E2E virtual network . In this case second security level zone may serve as a sandbox environment for a set of developers to test program code without granting administrative access to virtual networks of first security level zone that may include sensitive user information and or access to critical resources of the web platform. Moreover second security level zone does not receive traffic from network thereby facilitating the lessened security requirements relative to first security level zone which does receive traffic from network .

In this way a cloud network may improve web platform management for a multi developer organizations by providing improved information security and by reducing a likelihood of malicious or inadvertent errors being propagated to the web platform relative to a cloud network that does not implement PCI compliance for virtual networks. Moreover the cloud network may improve web platform management by providing improved flexibility regarding granting access for program code testing relative to a cloud network that implements PCI compliance for all virtual networks.

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in cloud network may include production virtual network a utility virtual network and a gateway device . Production virtual network may include a web application firewall WAF portion a group of firewall through a web portion e.g. a web server portion of production virtual network an application app portion e.g. an application server portion of production virtual network a database portion e.g. a database server portion of production virtual network and an active directory portion . Cloud network may connect via gateway device to network and service provider network . Portions of production virtual network may integrate security tools of utility virtual network which may be conceptually represented and or instantiated as a utility portion of production virtual network . In some implementations production virtual network may include a scaling controller associated with allocating computing resources to portions of production virtual network a routing device associated with causing information to be routed between portions of production virtual network or the like.

Gateway device may include one or more gateway devices associated with providing traffic routing for production virtual network . For example gateway device may receive virtual private network VPN traffic from operator data center e.g. via service provider network and may route the VPN traffic to a terminal services device of utility virtual network . Additionally or alternatively gateway device may receive traffic from network e.g. web traffic operator data center franchisor data center or the like and may route the traffic to a portion of cloud network e.g. web portion .

WAF portion may include one or more devices associated with providing firewalling for production virtual network . For example WAF portion may include a virtual network e.g. a sub virtual network of production virtual network that may receive network traffic from gateway device and may apply a security filter. In this way WAF portion may reduce a likelihood of a cross site scripting XSS attack a structured query language SQL injection attack or the like. Based on the traffic satisfying the filter and or one or more traffic routing criteria of WAF portion the traffic may be routed via firewall to web portion as described in detail with regard to . In some implementations WAF portion may perform reverse proxying for user device or the like. For example when user device attempts to establish a connection via WAF portion to a customer portal of web portion WAF portion may establish a first connection with user device and a second separate connection with web portion thereby preventing user device from direct access to web portion . In this way WAF portion may provide a layer of security for the web platform. By utilizing cloud based scaling cloud network may provide the layer of security on an as needed basis thereby reducing a resource allocation relative to a fixed allocation for a WAF.

Firewall hereinafter referred to collectively as firewalls and individually as firewall may refer to a firewall associated with providing a layer of security for cloud network . For example firewall may include a network security group NSG based firewall associated with managing access between computing resources of portions of cloud network . For example when user device provides information identifying an order for food delivery via WAF portion e.g. based on satisfying one or more security criteria of WAF portion firewall may provide one or more firewall based filters on the connection established between WAF portion and web portion . Similarly when a server of web portion intends to access information of a server of application portion firewall may apply one or more filtering rules to a request for information. In some implementations firewall may include a virtualized firewall. For example cloud network may allocate resources to firewalls on an as needed basis thereby reducing a resource allocation requirement per firewall than a fixed allocation. Moreover based on reducing the resource allocation requirement per firewall cloud network may implement more firewalls for separation portions of cloud network than a similar cloud network that is associated with a greater resource allocation requirement per firewall.

Web portion may refer to a portion of cloud network associated with providing information for display via a web platform and or receiving information from the web platform. For example a user may request information from cloud network via a web platform by providing a user request to web portion as described herein with regard to .

Application portion may refer to a portion of cloud network associated with providing application services for the web platform. For example when web portion receives an order for a food product delivery web portion may provide the order to application portion for processing as described herein with regard to .

Database portion may refer to a portion of cloud network associated with providing information from a database for the web platform. For example when application portion is processing the order for the food product delivery application server may request information e.g. user identification information credit card information or the like from database portion via a database request and database portion may provide the requested information as described herein with regard to .

Active directory portion may refer to a portion of cloud network associated with providing directory services authentication and or authorization for users of cloud network . For example cloud network may allocate a quantity of computing resources to an active directory domain controller of active directory portion . Active directory portion may provide another layer of security for cloud network in some implementations. For example active directory portion may ensure that administrative users e.g. one or more users of operator data center are only granted access to assigned portions of cloud network . In this case active directory portion may receive an access request from a user and perform authentication of the access request to determine whether to grant access e.g. to a portion of production virtual network to the user.

As shown in web portion application portion and database portion may include firewall devices and respectively. A firewall device may correspond to a firewall may include an interface with a firewall or may include a device separate and or different from a firewall . For example firewall device may include a virtualized firewall device allocated as a computing resource of web portion e.g. firewall device application portion e.g. firewall device database portion e.g. firewall device or the like. Firewall device may provide a layer of security for a portion of cloud network . For example when a connection is attempted to web portion firewall device may apply one or more filters and or security techniques associated with ensuring that the connection is a not associated with a malicious purpose.

As further shown in web portion may include a set of web servers associated with one or more functionalities of the web platform. For example the set of web servers may include a group of store administration admin servers e.g. 5 servers 10 servers 20 servers etc. that provide a portal for utilization one or more functionalities of the web platform associated with store administration. Additionally or alternatively the set of web servers may include a group of back office servers that provide a portal for utilization of one or more back office functionalities of the web platform such as inventory information payroll information or the like. Additionally or alternatively the set of web servers may include a group of customer portal servers e.g. one or more web servers that provide a portal for utilization of one or more customer functionalities of the web platform. For example user device may provide web traffic e.g. a request for delivery or take out of a product such as a food product to customer portal servers e.g. via WAF portion .

As further shown in application portion may include a set of application app servers associated with one or more application services of an ecommerce application associated with the web platform. For example the set of application servers may include a group of customer portal servers associated with providing information for customer portal servers . Additionally or alternatively the set of application servers may include a group of Hybris servers e.g. data hub servers associated with facilitating the ecommerce application .

As further shown in database portion may include a set of database DB servers associated with providing information from one or more data structures for the ecommerce application or the like. In some implementations the set of database servers may include a group of SQL servers .

In some implementations a server e.g. a web server an application server a database server or the like may include one or more security functionalities such as endpoint protection antivirus protection local firewalling data loss prevention file modification monitoring or the like as a layer of security for the server. For example Hybris server may operate antivirus protection as an added layer of security to firewall device firewall or the like. In some implementations the server may provide information identifying a detected malicious action e.g. an attempted intrusion a detected malicious file etc. for utilization in assessing a security situation as described with regard to .

As further shown in and by reference number web portion may receive a user request e.g. from user device . Assume that the user request is for an order for food delivery. The user request is routed e.g. from WAF portion to customer portal server based on address information e.g. IP address information indicating that the request is intended for customer portal server . Customer portal server may generate an application request for Hybris server . The application request is transmitted to Hybris server e.g. via firewall and firewall device . Hybris server may fulfill the request e.g. by generating information for a store device of a store location that is intended to fulfill the order for food delivery . As shown by reference number to fulfill the request Hybris server may generate a database request for information from SQL server . The database request is transmitted to SQL server e.g. via firewall and firewall device and SQL server may provide database information associated with fulfilling the request e.g. user identification information payment information preference information or the like .

In this way production virtual network is configured with layered security to reduce a likelihood of a security situation causing a harm to production virtual network relative to non layered security. For example user device is not permitted to directly access web portion rather WAF portion establishes a reverse proxy connection to web portion based on receiving traffic from user device . Similarly WAF portion may lack permission to access application portion rather WAF portion may transmit information to web portion which may transmit information to application portion . Similarly application portion may request information from database portion to fulfill a request provided by web portion without web portion having direct access to database portion .

Production virtual network may utilize scalable computing resources to implement layered security. For example a quantity of computing resources of production virtual network e.g. servers established for web portion application portion database portion firewalls and or the like may be scaled to meet demand thereby facilitating comprehensive layered security with less resource allocation than may be required for a fixed allocation. In this way cloud network may reduce a likelihood of a security situation relative to another type of web platform using non scalable computing resources that is based on using non scalable computing resources unable to implement layered security as a result of excessive costs to establish fixed computing resources.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

For example and with regard to gateway device may correspond to gateway device and may perform one or more similar functions. Similarly WAF portion may correspond to WAF portion and may perform one or more similar functions. Similarly firewalls and may correspond to and respectively and may respectively perform one or more similar functions. Similarly web portion may correspond to web portion and may perform one or more similar functions. Similarly application app portion may correspond to application portion and may perform one or more similar functions. Similarly database portion may correspond to database portion and may perform one or more similar functions. Similarly active directory portion may correspond to active directory portion and may perform one or more similar functions.

As another example and with regard to firewall devices and may correspond to firewall devices and respectively and may respectively perform one or more similar functions. Similarly web servers e.g. store administration admin server back office server and customer portal server may correspond to web servers e.g. store administration server back office server and customer portal server and may perform one or more similar functions. Similarly application app servers e.g. customer portal server and Hybris server may correspond to application servers e.g. customer portal server and Hybris server and may perform one or more similar functions. Similarly database servers e.g. SQL server may correspond to database servers e.g. SQL server and may perform one or more similar functions.

As another example and with regard to web portion may receive a user request corresponding to user request and may generate an application request corresponding to application request . Similarly application portion may receive the application request and may generate database request corresponding to database request . Similarly database portion may receive database request and may provide database information to fulfill database request .

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in cloud network may include a development virtual network a QAT virtual network and or an E2E virtual network collectively referred to Development virtual networks . Development virtual networks may include one or more portions and or computing resources corresponding to production virtual network of staging virtual network of or the like. For example development virtual networks may include a gateway device a WAF portion a set of firewalls a web portion a development portion a QAT E2E portion an active directory portion a set of firewall devices or the like.

WAF portion may include one or more devices associated with providing firewalling for development virtual networks . For example WAF portion may include a virtual network e.g. a sub virtual network of production virtual network that may receive network traffic from gateway device and may apply a security filter as described herein with regard to WAF of .

Active directory portion may refer to a portion of cloud network associated with providing directory services authentication and or authorization for users of cloud network and development virtual networks . For example cloud network may allocate a quantity of computing resources to an active directory domain controller of active directory portion as described herein with regard to active director portion of .

As further shown in web portion may include a firewall device and a set of web servers e.g. a group of QAT E2E servers a group of development DEV servers or the like . Development portion may include a firewall device and a set of development servers e.g. a group of application servers a group of database servers or the like . In some implementations application servers may be incorporated into an application server virtual network and database servers may be incorporated into a database virtual network each of which are sub virtual networks of development portion . QAT E2E portion may include a firewall device and a set of QAT E2E servers e.g. a group of application servers a group of database servers or the like . In some implementations application servers may be incorporated into an application server virtual network and database servers may be incorporated into a database virtual network each of which are sub virtual networks of QAT E2E portion . In some implementations QAT E2E portion may include a QAT sub portion that includes a set of application servers a set of database servers or the like and an E2E sub portion that includes a set of application servers a set of database servers or the like.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

Bus may include a component that permits communication among the components of device . Processor is implemented in hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU an accelerated processing unit APU etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that can be programmed to perform a function. Memory may include random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash memory a magnetic memory an optical memory etc. that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Storage component may store information and or software related to the operation and use of device . For example storage component may include a hard disk e.g. a magnetic disk an optical disk a magneto optic disk a solid state disk etc. a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a cartridge a magnetic tape and or another type of computer readable medium along with a corresponding drive.

Input component may include a component that permits device to receive information such as via user input e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch a microphone etc. . Additionally or alternatively input component may include a sensor for sensing information e.g. a global positioning system GPS component an accelerometer a gyroscope an actuator etc. . Output component may include a component that provides output information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component e.g. a transceiver a separate receiver and transmitter etc. that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface may permit device to receive information from another device and or provide information to another device. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface a cellular network interface or the like.

Device may perform one or more processes described herein. Device may perform these processes in response to processor executing software instructions stored by a computer readable medium such as memory and or storage component . A computer readable medium is defined herein as a non transitory memory device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory and or storage component from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory and or storage component may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number and arrangement of components shown in are provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively a set of components e.g. one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of components of device .

As shown in process may include obtaining information regarding a security situation associated with a set of computing resources block . For example security assessment device may obtain information regarding the security situation. In some implementations security assessment device may obtain the information regarding an ongoing security threat. Additionally or alternatively security assessment device may obtain the information regarding a potential security threat.

In some implementations security assessment device may determine information based on one or more layers of security associated with a cloud based web platform such as a web platform associated with cloud network and cloud network . For example a security assessment tool e.g. a malicious file detection tool a malicious code injection tool or the like associated with utility virtual network may be utilized by a server of production virtual network to analyze incoming traffic may determine that the incoming traffic is associated with a malicious purpose e.g. a distributed denial of service DDOS attack a malicious code injection attack or the like . In this case the server may provide to security assessment device information associated with analyzing the incoming traffic. In some implementations security assessment device may obtain the information from a particular security assessment tool. For example security assessment device may obtain information from a server of cloud network a WAF of cloud network a firewall of cloud network or the like that is executing security information and event management STEM software host based intrusion detection system HIDS software network intrusion detection systems NIDS software data loss prevention security software Tripwire security software event logging software system alarm software or the like. Additionally or alternatively security assessment device may receive information from a threat intelligence provider and or an Internet resource such as Symantec DeepSight United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team US CERT InfraGuard the Internet Storm Center ISC or the like. For example security assessment device may receive information regarding a network traffic pattern a malicious file a type of malicious file a patch for an exploit a recovery path for an exploit a threat of an attack e.g. provided via a communication channel being monitored by the threat intelligence provider and or the Internet resource or the like.

In some implementations security assessment device may receive information regarding a particular event. For example security assessment device may receive information identifying an event associated with a risk of malicious attack e.g. a new discount offered via the web platform a news event related to a company associated with the web platform a world news event a sports event a holiday or the like . Additionally or alternatively security assessment device may receive information based on performing a targeted vulnerability assessment such as information identifying an exploit associated with the web platform. Additionally or alternatively security assessment device may receive information associated with an operational incident such as a server becoming deactivated a new data center associated with the web platform a public threat made regarding the web platform a detection of surveillance associated with the web platform or the like.

As further shown in process may include determining a threat assessment level for the security situation block . For example security assessment device may select a threat assessment level from a set of threat assessment levels. A threat assessment level may refer to a classification of a security situation into a discrete category associated with a set of response actions. For example the security situation may be classified into a normal level e.g. a normal security situation an elevated level e.g. a security situation with an elevated threat relative to the normal level or the like. In some implementations security assessment device may perform an evaluation of the information regarding the security situation when determining the threat assessment level. For example security assessment device may classify the security situation as being related to a known threat e.g. a known malicious software an unknown threat e.g. an unknown malicious software or the like.

In some implementations security assessment device may determine a specificity associated with the security situation. For example prior to a commercial event security assessment device may determine the security situation to be a non specific security situation e.g. a threat may relate to the commercial event but no direct threat has been received . By contrast when a threat of a DDOS attack is received e.g. via a communication channel with regards to the web platform security assessment device may determine the security situation to be related to a higher degree of specificity relative to the non specific security situation.

In some implementations security assessment device may determine a quantity of attacks being encountered. For example security assessment device may determine that the quantity of attempted attacks on the web platform is less than a baseline normal level approximately at the base level exceeding the baseline level or the like. In some implementations security assessment device may determine that the quantity of attacks satisfies a threshold quantity associated with a particular security level and security assessment device may select the threat assessment level based on the threshold quantity.

In some implementations security assessment device may determine a damage metric related to the security situation. For example security assessment device may determine a metric relating to an extent to which the web platform has been damaged in the security situation such as an extent to which information has been exfiltrated from the web platform an extent to which one or more webpages of the web platform have been maliciously altered an expected cost of remediation or the like. In this case security assessment device may determine the threat assessment level based on the metric relating to the quantity of damage.

In some implementations security assessment device may determine the threat assessment level based on multiple parameters. For example security assessment device may determine the threat assessment level based on the quantity of attacks the specificity of the security situation the damage metric or the like. In some implementations security assessment device may applying a weighting to the multiple parameters. For example security assessment may apply a first weight to the specificity of the security situation and a second weight to the damage metric when determining the threat assessment level for the security situation.

In some implementations security assessment device may determine the threat assessment level based on a threat assessment threshold. For example a particular threat assessment level may be associated with one or more threshold criteria that when satisfied correspond to security assessment device selecting the particular threat assessment level.

As further shown in process may include causing a response action associated with the threat assessment level to be performed block . For example security assessment device may perform the response action associated with the threat assessment level. Additionally or alternatively security assessment device may cause another device associated with the web platform to perform the response action. For example security assessment device may cause a control device of the web platform to re configure a set of virtual networks such as allocating a different quantity of computing resources for a particular virtual network de activating a particular virtual network activating a particular virtual network replacing a first virtual network with a second virtual network or the like.

In some implementations security assessment device may identify the response action to be performed based on the threat assessment level when causing the response action to be performed. For example security assessment device may determine that a first threat assessment level is associated with a first set of response actions and a second threat assessment level is associated with a second set of response actions. In this case security assessment device may utilize a data structure storing information regarding response actions and threat assessment levels. Additionally or alternatively security assessment device may select from a set of response actions. For example security assessment device may select a particular action to be performed from the multiple response actions associated with a particular threat assessment level. In some implementations security assessment device may select the response action based on the security situation. For example security assessment device may determine that a DDOS attack and a user data exfiltration attack are associated with the same threat assessment level but may select different response actions for the DDOS attack and the user data exfiltration attack to perform remediation.

In some implementations security assessment device may provide one or more notifications based on the threat assessment level. For example security assessment device may provide an alert to a watch commander e.g. a security user associated with managing a security situation such as by transmitting the alert to a user device operated by the watch commander. Additionally or alternatively security assessment device may provide information to one or more groups such as a group of managers a legal team a communications team or the like. In some implementations security assessment device may cause a group to be formed. For example security assessment device may provide information associated with the threat assessment level that triggers an incident response team e.g. a group of users associated with managing a security situation to be formed. In this case security assessment device may provide information associated with assigning a quantity of computing resources to the incident response team a set of authority guidelines for the incident response team e.g. information identifying a hierarchy of operational authority with regards to the web platform and the security situation a level of operation authority etc. or the like.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in security assessment device may classify a security situation based on a set of classifications such as a first level a second level a third level a fourth level and a fifth level . Another set of classifications including more levels fewer levels different levels or the like may be used in another example.

In some implementations each level may correspond to a set of threshold criteria. For example a particular level may be assigned to a security situation when a threshold quantity of information is exfiltrated from a data structure. Additionally or alternatively a level may correspond to a group of users associated with mitigating the security situation. For example the group of users may be pre briefed e.g. briefed in advance of the security situation regarding resources allocated to the group of users a level of authority allocated to the group of users or the like.

First level e.g. a hierarchically lowest threat assessment level relative to other threat assessment levels of the set of classifications may be associated with a security situation that indicates a threat failing to satisfy a significance threshold. In some implementations first level may be associated with a lack of events that expose the web platform to a threat from a known malicious attack capability. Similarly first level may be associated with a lack of detected surveillance e.g. a lack of detection of one or more system probes scans or the like that may correspond to potential surveillance in advance of a malicious attack . First level may be associated with a set of response actions such as security assessment device identifying mission critical information systems and operational importance thereof monitoring points of access for network traffic or the like. In some implementations first level may be associated with performing a set of baseline security practices such as password management e.g. causing periodic password replacement an internal security review an external vulnerability assessment auditing file backup identifying new types of malicious files installing patches reporting escalation testing e.g. testing response actions associated with a higher threat assessment level or the like.

Second level may be associated with a security situation indicating an increased risk of attack relative to first level . For example second level may be associated with a general threat to the web platform e.g. a relatively higher level of threat than the threat failing to satisfy a significance threshold . In some implementations second level may be associated with one or more events associated with an increased likelihood of an attack directed at the web platform a threshold quantity of detected surveillance or the like. In some implementations second level may be associated with a set of elevated security practices relative to first level such as an increased level of auditing an increased level of file backup generation of notifications for web platform users regarding the general threat adoption of one or more defensive tactics e.g. enabling additional firewalls increasing a level of firewall filtering etc. employment of enhanced reporting procedures proactive threat assessment level escalation e.g. escalating the threat assessment level to a higher threat assessment level prior to the criteria for the higher threat assessment level being satisfied or the like.

Third level may be associated with a security situation indicating a specific risk of an attack. For example third level may be associated with a determined or predicted targeting of a particular system location unit or operation associated with the web platform. In some implementations third level may be associated with an occurrence of a major event associated with the web platform and corresponding to an increased likelihood of attack a quantity of surveillance satisfying an increased threshold relative to second level a detected network penetration or denial of service attack attempt e.g. but without impact to the web platform or the like. In some implementations third level may be associated with a set of elevated security practices relative to second level such as performing a proactive defensive action an increased level of auditing an increased level of file backup an internal security review of one or more critical systems of the web platform assessment of new vulnerabilities performing patching related to the new vulnerabilities an increased level of reporting or the like.

Fourth level may be associated with a security situation indicating a limited attack. For example fourth level may be associated with a detected ongoing attack a predicted imminent attack or the like. In some implementations fourth level may be associated with an attack that causes limited interference with web platform operations such as based on detecting a threshold attack successfulness performing attack prevention with a threshold level of successfulness determining that a threshold quantity of data and or systems have been compromised determining that the web platform satisfies an operation threshold e.g. a threshold relating to an assessment of whether operation of the web platform is compromised by the attack or the like. For example fourth level may be associated with an attack that is associated with a known recovery path a suspected PCI leak or the like. In some implementations fourth level may be associated with a set of elevated security practices relative to third level such as performing one or more response actions associated with the known recovery path increasing a level of auditing to a threshold level increasing a level of file backup to a threshold level reconfiguration of one or more modules of the web platform to reduce vulnerabilities rerouting one or more system operations of the web platform to one or more unaffected systems of the web platform executing one or more defense techniques increasing reporting to a threshold level proactive threat assessment level escalation or the like.

Fifth level may be associated with a security situation indicating a general attack. For example fifth level may be associated with a detected attack with a threshold impact to one or more operations relating to the web platform. In some implementations fifth level may be associated with a threshold quantity of incidents that reduce web platform functionality relative to pre attack web platform functionality a threshold risk to system data and or one or more modules associated with the web platform an attack associated with a recovery path that is not known a confirmed PCI leak or the like. In some implementations fifth level may be associated with a set of elevated security practices relative to fourth level such as assigning alternate devices and or computing resources for routing communication regarding security procedures providing information associated with and or causing deactivation of one or more portions of the web platform providing information associated with and or causing an isolation of one or more devices and or computing resources of the web platform or the like.

As shown by reference numbers and security assessment device may cause an escalation from a relatively lower threat assessment level to a relatively higher threat assessment level e.g. from first level to second level and or a de escalation from a relatively higher threat assessment level to a relatively lower threat assessment level e.g. from fourth level to third level . In some implementations security assessment device may cause an escalation of two or more levels. For example security assessment device may when determining the threat assessment level cause an escalation from first level to fourth level without causing the web platform to operate at second level and or third level .

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in as shown by reference security assessment device may begin operation which may include monitoring for information regarding a security situation as shown by reference number . As shown by reference number based on obtaining information regarding the situation when monitoring security assessment device may determine that a security condition e.g. a threshold associated with identifying a particular security situation is triggered such as detecting a threshold quantity of scans of the web platform indicating potential surveillance for an attack. As shown by reference number security assessment device provides a notification to a watch commander regarding the security condition being triggered. As shown by reference number security assessment device may determine whether first level is met by the security condition being triggered. In some implementations security assessment device may receive information associated with assessing the security situation based on providing the notification to the watch commander. If one or more criteria associated with first level are not satisfied security assessment device may continue monitoring. If the one or more criteria are satisfied security assessment device may generate a notification indicating that first level is met as shown by reference number and may cause one or more response actions to be performed.

As further shown in and by reference number security assessment device may determine whether one or more criteria associated with second level are satisfied by the security condition being triggered. If the one or more criteria associated with second level are not satisfied security assessment device may establish the threat assessment level at first level and may continue monitoring. If the one or more criteria are satisfied security assessment device may escalate the threat assessment level to second level may generate an alert notification as shown by reference number and may cause one or more response actions to be implemented.

As further shown in and by reference number security assessment device may determine whether one or more criteria associated with third level are met by the security condition being triggered. If the one or more criteria associated with third level are not satisfied security assessment device may establish the threat assessment level at second level and may continue monitoring. If the one or more criteria are satisfied security assessment device may escalate the threat assessment level to third level may generate an alert notification as shown by reference number . As shown by reference number security assessment device may engage one or more designated system administrators and may cause one or more response actions to be implemented. The one or more designated system administrators may include a set of users that are designated a set of computing resources and a particular authority for managing the security situation such as an authority to activate a backup system an authority to perform one or more defensive techniques or the like. Security assessment device may provide a notification to the one or more designated system administrators select the one or more designated system administrators from a group of designated system administrators or the like.

As further shown in and by reference number security assessment device may determine whether one or more criteria associated with fourth level are met by the security condition being triggered. If the one or more criteria associated with fourth level are not satisfied security assessment device may establish the threat assessment level at third level and may continue monitoring. If the one or more criteria are satisfied security assessment device may escalate the threat assessment level to fourth level and may generate an alert notification as shown by reference number . As shown by reference numbers and security assessment device may form an incident response team IRT and or an incident management group IMG based on escalating to fourth level . The IRT may designate an incident response recovery lead IRRL e.g. a team leader may utilize pre designated computing resources may exercise enhanced decision making authority relative to the one or more designated system administrators based on a decision of the IRRL and may remain active until the security situation is resolved. The IMG may provide communications support for the IRT and may exercise enhanced decision making authority relative to the IRT.

As further shown in and by reference number security assessment device may determine whether one or more criteria of fifth level are met by the security condition being triggered. If the one or more criteria associated with fifth level are not satisfied security assessment device may establish the threat assessment level at fourth level and may continue monitoring. If the one or more criteria are satisfied security assessment device may escalate the threat assessment level to fifth level and may form an emergency management committee EMC as shown by reference number . The EMC may include critical stakeholders such as business owners of the web platform communications representatives legal representatives or the like and may exercise enhanced decision making authority relative to the IMG such as shut down authority with regard to the web platform. As further shown by reference number the IRT IMG EMG or the like may remain active until the security situation is resolved. If the security situation is not resolved security assessment device may for another group cause additional computing resources to be provided to the group provide an additional alert notification or the like. When the security situation is resolved as shown by reference numbers and security assessment device may generate one or more notifications indicating that the security situation is resolved and may perform close out activities which may include disbanding the IRT IMG EMG or the like de escalating to first level or the like.

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware and or a combination of hardware and software.

Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As used herein satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold more than the threshold higher than the threshold greater than or equal to the threshold less than the threshold fewer than the threshold lower than the threshold less than or equal to the threshold equal to the threshold etc.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods described herein may be implemented in different forms of hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described herein without reference to specific software code it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Also as used herein the terms has have having or the like are intended to be open ended terms. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

