---

title: System and method for creating a predetermined magnetic potential
abstract: A method and system for algebraically generating precise magnetic potentials along the axis of a cold atom waveguide. Sets of paired conductors may provide control over the even and odd contributions of the polynomial potential along one axis of the trap. Various field configurations can be realized, including double wells, triple wells, and filtered harmonic traps with suppression of higher order terms. An example of a system disclosed herein may be a suitable dual-layer atom chip, with modest experimental requirements, that allows independent tuning of terms up to fourth order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510437&OS=09510437&RS=09510437
owner: THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
number: 09510437
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150421
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The present invention relates to a chip device that employs precise potentials to control a magnetic field.

Wires fabricated on thermally conductive substrates for trapping atoms are often called atom chips. Atom chips encompass chips that are used to generate magnetic electrical and or direct optical fields to manipulate cold atoms or molecules. Magnetic fields gradients can be used to create a force on atoms. That force can be used to turn magnetic fields into a trap a lens a moving wave etc. for neutral atoms. The atom chip may contain additional features such as electronic components lenses micromechanics etc. Additionally the atom chip can provide electrical feedthroughs from a vacuum cell exterior to its interior.

Aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein include an atom chip device comprising a plurality of wires configured to control a potential in a first direction 

a waveguide configured to control the potential in a second direction and wherein the plurality wires are spaced a predetermined distance apart so that by adjusting currents in the plurality of wires the magnitude and direction of the potential can be tuned.

Further aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein include a method of controlling atoms using an atom chip comprising adjusting the currents in a plurality of wire pairs which are i substantially perpendicular to a waveguide and ii spaced a predetermined distance apart according to a polynomial model so as to tune a magnitude and direction of a potential.

Magnetic fields have been used to confine atoms in a variety of traps. The exact magnetic field can be modeled but the precise control over these traps has often been lacking. The atoms can still be trapped but higher order terms can cause aberrations. This is similar to imaging optics. Most spherically shaped glass will act as a lens but high quality optics use special shapes to cancel errors that come from imperfections at the edge of the lens. These lenses are often called aspheric lens because the edge has been modified such that the shape of the lens deviates from a perfect sphere. The same is true for magnetic fields nearly any magnetic trap can control and move the atoms but precision control means having a method to adjust the shape of the magnetic field.

Experiments with cold atoms often rely on carefully designed magnetic fields to realize tailored magnetic potentials. Multilayer structures with complex wire patterns can be produced lithographically or by etching direct bonded copper DBC on an aluminum nitride AlN substrate. Dynamic adjustment of the currents through the patterned wires enables a broad range of possible magnetic trapping parameters which can further be expanded with the addition of radio frequency and microwave fields. The extensive configurability and compact size of atom chips has made them a cornerstone of emerging atomic sensor technologies.

In many experiments an atom cloud is sufficiently confined in two directions that its dynamics can be described by a one dimensional 1D equation of motion. While precise control over this effective 1D potential is very important however few structures take full advantage of the configurability afforded by atom chips. In at least one of the embodiments disclosed herein is a system and method for atom chips that produce tunable 1D potentials using a static magnetic field. Both even and odd contributions are accessible enabling polynomial potentials to be realized. In practice predetermined tunability requires more current in the chip wires leading to higher power dissipation. Larger wire spacings require higher power dissipation in order to have an effect near the center of the magnetic trap. Placing wire pairs at the zeros of higher order terms has led to larger wire spacing for the outermost wire pair. Reducing the wire spacing will reduce the total power requirements at the expense of mathematically precise cancellation of higher order contributions. The tradeoff between power dissipation and small but non zero higher order contribution is embodied in the low power configuration where the spacing of the outermost wire pair is reduced. The atom chip disclosed herein is capable of controlling the 1D potential including both the optimal control and reduced power wire configurations.

In the discussion below first an idealized atom chip and its corresponding 1D polynomial potential model will be presented and the tunability of both even and odd terms examined and secondly an exemplary atom chip will be described and wire currents will be solved for using either the optimally placed wire pair or the low power configuration.

The term parallel will be used in this disclosure to indicate the plurality of wire pairs are substantially in parallel for at least a portion of their length and particular are in parallel when crossed by the waveguide . Wires are made up of wires pairs or sets and and and and and and . The wires can control the axial magnetic field Bx along the waveguide and the corresponding one dimensional 1 D potential. These even and odd wire pairs are spaced by 2Wand they allow for control over even and odd contributions to the 1D potential. Therefore described herein will be a method and system for algebraically generating precise magnetic potentials along an axis of a cold atom waveguide. Sets of paired conductors may provide control over the even and odd contributions of a polynomial potential along one axis of the trap. As discussed various field configurations can be realized including double wells triple wells and filtered harmonic traps with suppression of higher order terms.

A magnetic waveguide is a field configuration wherein the magnetic field vanishes along an axis. Near the zero the field points perpendicular to the guide and can be described by a single parameter G which is the magnetic field gradient of the waveguide. For example the magnetic field B for waveguide that points in the x direction can be written as . The 1D potential will be created using a magnetic field that is produced by the current in the wires that run parallel to the y axis perpendicular to the waveguide axis . This magnetic field will provide confinement along the x axis and will be assumed to be of the following form . The z independence in the above equation causes two small shifts to the potential. First it causes a change in the gradient in the z direction which can be neglected when 

With Bset to zero the field along the waveguide axis can be separated into two parts a non zero bottom field B 0 which prevents spin flip losses and is necessary for the potential to be separable and B x the part of the axial field that depends on the x coordinate as follows 0 . The potential that the atoms experience is obtained from the radial and axial components as follows square root over 0 where gmis the magnetic moment of the atomic state that is trapped is the Bohr magneton gthe Lande g factor mis the magnetic quantum number and square root over is the radial coordinate.

The tunable field B x will be created using wires running perpendicular to the waveguide as shown in . The wires may be referred to as pinch wires since they act much like the pinch coils in an Ioffe trap. The tunable field can be expanded into the following series 

Now will be described how predetermined values of certain coefficients Ccan be generated from a particular wire configuration. Let n 0 be the order of the coefficient of interest. As previously disclosed the parity of n determines whether currents corresponding to the even or odd set of wire pairs contribute to C. This parity label p may be defined as 

The magnetic field of the wire pairs also consists of a component in the z direction. This field can be expanded as

Non zero values of Dcause a rotation of the waveguide. Usually one wants to work in the region where this rotation is set to zero. However there are situations where changing this rotation angle will be useful such as the alignment of an atom cloud with a standing wave laser field. Extensions to non zero rotations are straightforward but will not be used in the following.

A general expression for dmay be found however there is only interest in the lowest two powers which can be expressed as 

Similarly the currents in a set of Mwire pairs can be used to control Mterms from equation for C. Once the wire spacing s w has been determined the currents are found by inverting the equations for Cand D. An applied bias field of B BDis required to cancel the Dthat arises from the odd wire pairs. The value can be calculated from the currents and using the equation for Dand d w above.

The number of roots is exactly the number of wires needed to control all of the lower coefficients plus D. By placing wire pairs at all of the roots of a given even coefficient and controlling the relative current through each pair one can tune the lower even coefficients as well as the additional coefficient D. For example by placing wires at the three roots of c there can be independent control of the three parameters C C and D while also having C 0.

Now will be presented an example configuration with both low power and optimal control functionality. Once the coefficients are specified for which tunable control is desired the set of currents ip n can be found by solving the matrix equations. For the even wires 

The sixth order contribution can be eliminated C 0 by placing the wires with spacing of w 0.228 w 0.797 and w 2.076. The field order contribution is always zero C 0 when w 0.577 and w 1.732. In situations where small sixth order contributions to the potential can be tolerated the total power consumption of the atom chip can be greatly reduced by moving the outer pair of wires closer together. The outer wires may be placed at a spacing where W W 1.3. This choice has much lower power requirements than the optimal spacing and also has a rather low contribution from the sixth order term.

Several examples of trap configurations will now be discussed. A 3 pair even potential with no rotation will be used for exemplary purposes. There will be four free parameters Cthrough C. For each trap type the results will be presented for the optimal configuration where w w 2.076 and a low power configuration where w w 1.3.

For the two wire spacings the even wire and odd wire equations can be numerically inverted. For the case of the optimal configuration the currents are given by the relations 

This tunable trap will be useful for atom interferometry in harmonic traps. This is particularly true for an interferometer that uses trapped thermal atoms because contributions to the fourth and higher order term cause decoherence. Fourth order contributions to the potential can be caused by the field length of the wires on the chip fields created by the leads connecting the chip to the power supplies or other by equipment in the laboratory. These contributions can be canceled by tuning the parameter Cwhile holding Cconstant. To effectively remove the effects of the fourth order contributions to the potential it must first be determined.

Before tuning the parameter C a harmonic trap should be created and loaded. shows the magnetic field for the case where C 1 and all other coefficients are zero. The solid curve shows the field produced by the wires in the optimal configuration w w and the dashed curve shows the field produced by the wires in the low power configuration w w. The dotted lines are approximation where the uncontrolled higher order terms are neglected. With the pinch wires in the optimal configuration the trap remains harmonic over a larger range. The optimal trap is also deeper and has a larger bottom field. Thus the bias field to reduce the bottom field will need to be larger for the optimal configuration as compared to the low power configuration.

To quantify the effects of the uncontrolled higher order contributions of the field the difference between the field with all the contributions to the approximate field that contains only the controlled parameters and the bottom field was plotted. This is given by V C x where Cis found for the two wires spacing s. This difference is plotted as a log plot in . The solid curve shows the difference in the optimal wire configuration and the dashed curve shows the difference in the low power configuration. The low power configuration produces a field that is about an order of magnitude less harmonic than the wires in the optimal configuration. However for sufficiently small atomic clouds R H

To determine the amount of current that needs to be run in each wire of the chip the scaling of the current needs to be determined. To make a harmonic trap with trap frequency the scaling current should be 

Besides making a tunable single well trap the chip can be used to produce a double well trap where both the distance between the two traps and the difference between the potential at the bottom of each trap can be independently tuned. This type of double well trap can be used to study the merging of two cold or ultra cold atomic clouds the quantum dynamics of a Bose Einstein Condensation BEC in a double well potential or most interestingly it may be useful as a coherent splitter for a BEC.

For this particular choice of parameters Cand C the locations of the two wells should be x H 3 8. shows that the locations of the wells are slightly larger than this at x H 0.66. To create a trap with frequency of 10 Hz the reference current should be I 0.81. For the high power configuration the currents should be I 0.38 A I 0.82 A and I 1.83 A. The magnetic field at the trap minimum is 0.28 Gauss. For the low power configuration I 0.23 A I 1.13 A and I 0.473 A. The magnetic field at the trap minimum is 0.71 Gauss.

As discussed the tunability of an axial magnetic field in a cold atom waveguide can be achieved with sets of paired wires on an atom chip . A specific implementation of the system and method detailed above for determining the placement of pairs of wires and the corresponding operational currents required to make a predetermined polynomial magnetic potential will now be discussed. To review the number of terms in the polynomial is determined by the total number of wire pairs and and and and and and . Even and odd wire pairs spaced by 2Was shown in give control over even and odd contributions to the 1D potential. The location and current in N pairs of parallel wires through as shown in the wire configuration of are such that the resulting magnetic field can be written as a polynomial of order N 1 in an effective one dimensional 1D magnetic field. The wires are typically placed approximately at the zero crossing of the series expansion of a wire pair. This then substantially cancels that specific higher order contribution. By symmetry wires with anti parallel currents only contribute to the odd even terms in the polynomial expansion of the potential along the guide axis. When a wire pair is placed at a zero of a particular coefficient it allows the lower order terms of the same parity to be adjusted without contributing to the coefficient itself. Several wire pairs appropriately placed lead to predetermined tunability of several coefficients simply by controlling the relative currents through the sets of wire pairs. The value of the polynomial is then determined by solving a system of linear equations to determine the current for each wire pair through . These wires provide the longitudinal potential. The transverse potential is provided by the magnetic waveguide with an appropriate field such that the added longitudinal waveguide is the dominant contribution. This allows for the creation of a precisely defined magnetic field where the shape is determined by the relative currents in the wires. This has applications in a variety of measurements because extra terms in the polynomial cause loss of the signal at earlier times. By making a purely defined magnetic field these loss terms can be eliminated. The long waveguide that transversely confines the atoms in two dimensions 2D may be thought of as marbles rolling in a flexible pipe. The trap in the third or longitudinal y axis dimension is formed by pairs of wires . This may be thought of as bending the pipe up at multiple points so the curve of the pipe is controlled at multiple places. Each pair of wires can be a trap in and of itself but has extra terms toward the edges that causes imperfections. By adding the magnetic field of several pairs of wires the imperfections of the subsequent lenses can be used to cancel the imperfections of the first lens.

Specifically in a first step the magnetic field of each pair of wires is written as series polynomial expansion where the magnetic field is broken into its harmonic quartic and quantic orders that depend on the relative position of the wires about the origin. As shown in the polynomial equation below the magnetic field expressed as a sum of the terms 

In a second step like terms e.g. harmonics quartic are combined from each expression into a matrix equation.

In a third step the matrix is inverted in order to determine the current to apply to each wire pair in order to control the total magnetic field constitution. For example a trap can be made to have only the harmonic term and set the quartic term to zero. With a different current configuration the harmonic term can be set to zero such that the trap is purely quartic. This has direct applications to precision atom sensors where aberrations in the magnetic trap lead to loss of resolution. This trap can be used to form double well potentials which can be used in the study of fundamental physics. This trap is very versatile because the trapping is only defined by the relative currents in the wires. The wire placement is fixed in the first step of this method and the trap can then be adjusted using the electrical current which does not require significant reconfiguration. Thus multiple traps can be achieved by simply changing the current. This method may have applications in magnetically trapped atomic clocks where ideally the atoms would be confined in a magnetic potential with a very flat magnetic field profile to avoid variations due to a non uniform field. By going to very high trap orders the trapping field can be controlled to very high precision.

In alternative embodiments a different magnet trap is called a time orbiting potential trap TOP trap . By rapidly moving the magnetic field by rapidly adjusting the currents in the wire pairs the atoms can feel an average force that depends on the motion of the trap. This type of trap can also be used to control the shape of the trap. This trap requires great control over the strength of the fields and coordination between the different parts of the trap.

Experiments that employ 1D potentials now have a tool with which precise potentials may be generated from a single layer of an atom chip.

Atomic physics based devices have application to a wide variety of applications. Devices that could benefit from the precision magnetic potentials are atomic clocks accelerometers gyroscopes magnetometers gravimeters and general quantum sensors. For all of these devices the magnetic field must be very carefully controlled to avoid significant degradation of the desired measurement. Additionally confining the atoms with magnetic fields the size and weight of a sensor can be dramatically reduced compared to devices where the atoms are able to move inside the device and be limited by the size of the vacuum chamber. Therefore gyroscopes atomic clocks accelerometers magnetometers gravimeters and general quantum sensors may include the system and operate by the method disclosed herein.

The foregoing described embodiments have been presented for purposes of illustration and description and are not intended to be exhaustive or limiting in any sense. Alterations and modifications may be made to the embodiments disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention. The actual scope of the invention is to be defined by the claims.

The definitions of the words or elements of the claims shall include not only the combination of elements which are literally set forth but all equivalent structure material or acts for performing substantially the same function in substantially the same way to obtain substantially the same result.

All references including publications patent applications patents and website content cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and was set forth in its entirety herein.

The words used in this specification to describe the invention and its various embodiments are to be understood not only in the sense of their commonly defined meanings but to include by special definition in this specification any structure material or acts beyond the scope of the commonly defined meanings. Thus if an element can be understood in the context of this specification as including more than one meaning then its use in a claim must be understood as being generic to all possible meanings supported by the specification and by the word itself.

The terms a an and the mean one or more unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms including comprising and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise. The term plurality means two or more unless expressly specified otherwise. The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things such as an enumerated list of things means any combination of one or more of those things unless expressly specified otherwise. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. or such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed.

Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. Therefore any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within the range. For example the range 1 to 10 shall be interpreted to specifically include whole numbers between 1 and 10 e.g. 1 2 3 . . . 9 and non whole numbers e.g. 1.1 1.2 . . . 1.9 .

Neither the Title set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present application nor the Abstract set forth at the end of the present application is to be taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention s . The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the present application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Elements that are described as in communication with each other or coupled to each other need not be in direct physical contact unless expressly specified otherwise.

Although process or method steps may be described or claimed in a particular sequential order such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order unless specifically indicated. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step unless specifically indicated. Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the embodiment s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred. Where a process is described in an embodiment the process may operate without any user intervention.

