---

title: Managed access system with mobile wireless device geolocation capability
abstract: A managed access system for mobile wireless devices (MWDs) in a facility that is geographically within a wireless communications network includes a plurality of antennas arranged at the facility. Radio equipment is coupled to the antennas. A management access controller cooperates with the radio equipment to communicate with a given MWD within the facility, block outside communications via the wireless communications network when the given MWD is an unauthorized MWD, and provide outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD. The management access controller cooperates with at least one MWD geolocation device to locate the given MWD within the facility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584252&OS=09584252&RS=09584252
owner: HARRIS CORPORATION
number: 09584252
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150925
---
The present invention relates to communications systems and more particularly this invention relates to a managed access system for a mobile wireless device in a facility.

Over the last twenty years the wireless telecommunications market has seen tremendous growth including the use of contraband mobile wireless devices in correctional facilities or unauthorized use of such devices in other secure facilities such as government offices. These devices are often smuggled into correctional facilities or other secure facilities and made available to unauthorized users including inmates which may use them to continue criminal enterprises outside the facility threaten witnesses and harass victims. Use of such devices may also pose a continued security risk in a correctional facility because the inmates may use them to coordinate inmate riots or direct retribution on guards police or government officials.

It is difficult to prevent the smuggling of mobile wireless devices into correctional or other secure facilities because of commercial technology improvements and the variety of smuggling techniques available to unauthorized users and inmates. The improvements in commercial technology have reduced the size of mobile wireless devices and eased the challenges of smuggling or even accidentally carrying a mobile wireless device into a facility. Also the accessibility of less expensive mobile wireless devices has placed these devices within the financial reach of most inmates or other unauthorized users. Though institutional security measurements are in place to attempt to prevent the smuggling of contraband into correctional facilities the range of smuggling methods available to deliver contraband mobile wireless devices into the facility makes it difficult or even impossible to stop the flow. Inmates may coordinate smuggling efforts with visitors who move in and out of the facilities. Visiting friends and family are commonly involved in introducing contraband. Smugglers even employ methods such as throwing handsets over facility walls or fences or concealing them in packages sent to the facility. Physical security measures alone may not be sufficient to prevent the introduction of mobile wireless devices into correction facilities or other secure facilities.

As smuggling cannot be reasonably prevented alternative methods have been developed that focus on finding mobile wireless devices that are already inside the facilities. For example some systems detect and locate contraband devices which can then be confiscated. Often these systems include fixed portable and handheld detection systems but they can be expensive to acquire and require significant effort and personnel cost to use effectively. Their operational efficacy also is related to the effort that the facility invests in time training and technology. An increased effort from the facility may improve results but it may also increase operational costs.

Because a cell phone s benefit to the user is its ability to access the commercial wireless network denying the cell phone access to the wireless network may be a better approach to reduce the risks posed by contraband cell phones and other mobile wireless devices. The device is benign without access to the commercial wireless network. A range of technology based approaches have been developed and are available to limit an unauthorized device s access to the commercial wireless network. These approaches include jammer technologies and access management approaches. There are several types of jammers but they are typically designed to disrupt the communications of the device with the wireless communications network. One type of access management approach is a Managed Access System MAS which employs a private wireless network within a facility to provide wireless network access to authorized cell phones within the system s range. Authorized devices are provided access to voice and data services while unauthorized devices are denied access.

Another type of system an Access Denial Service ADS works cooperatively with the commercial wireless network to deny access to unauthorized devices within a facility. An ADS system uses the interaction between cell phones and the network to determine if the cell phone is within a facility or not. When a cell phone is detected within the facility the carrier is notified and if the device is not authorized for operation in the facility it is prevented from future access to the wireless network by the carrier.

There are drawbacks to such systems. Geolocation devices alone will not provide sufficient detail on the device identification to enable action by the commercial service provider. Managed Access Systems may provide insufficient information to determine the location of a cellular device that has registered to their network. They can typically only identify that a device has attached what has attached and when it has attached. At best it can identify which sector of a distributed antenna system the attachment has occurred. The system typically needs to operate on a persistent basis using fixed location autonomous sensors.

A managed access system for mobile wireless devices MWDs in a facility that are geographically within a wireless communications network comprises a plurality of antennas arranged at the facility. Radio equipment is coupled to the plurality of antennas. The system includes at least one MWD geolocation device. A management access controller cooperates with the radio equipment to communicate with a given MWD within the facility block outside communications via the wireless communications network when the given MWD is an unauthorized MWD and provide outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD. The management access controller cooperates with the at least one MWD geolocation device to locate the given MWD within the facility. The management access system is beneficial because the system may locate both authorized and unauthorized or contraband mobile wireless devices in and around the facility and permit communications of such devices to each other or to an outside or commercial wireless communications network on a selected basis. The system now can permit authorized devices to communicate within the facility or outside the facility via conventional wireless communications networks such as a commercial provider or through an internet and Session Initiation Protocol server or the Public Switched Telephone Network. Reports can be generated for authorized and unauthorized device operation in the facility with better control maintained over all mobile wireless devices within and around the facility.

In an example the plurality of antennas may each comprise directional antennas arranged around a periphery of the facility. The at least one MWD geolocation device is operable for both cellular and non cellular communications and may comprise a plurality of external geolocation devices arranged around the periphery of the facility. The plurality of external geolocation devices may operate based upon time difference of arrival signals. The at least one MWD geolocation device may comprise a plurality of internal geolocation devices arranged within the periphery of the facility. The facility may comprise a building and at least some of the plurality of internal geolocation devices are located within the building.

The radio equipment may comprise a plurality of picocell radios each coupled to a respective directional antenna. The management access controller may implement a corresponding change in the radio equipment in response to a change in the wireless communications network as at least one of change in a power level of at least one of the picocell radios a change in a communications protocol of at least one of the picocell radios and a change in a frequency range of at least one of the picocell radios. The management access controller may provide outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD via another network other than the commercial wireless network. The management access controller may provide outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD via at least one of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and an Internet Protocol IP network. The radio equipment may be operable according to at least one of an LTE CDMA UMTS and GSM protocol.

A management access controller is for a managed access system for mobile wireless devices MWDs in a facility that is geographically within a wireless communications network. The managed access system comprises a plurality of directional antennas arranged around a periphery of the facility radio equipment coupled to the plurality of directional antennas and at least one MWD geolocation device for the wireless communications network. The management access controller may comprise a processor and a memory coupled thereto to cooperate with the radio equipment to communicate with a given MWD within the facility block outside communications via the wireless communications network when the given MWD is an unauthorized MWD and provide outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD and cooperate with the at least one MWD geolocation device to locate the given MWD within the facility.

A method aspect is for operating a managed access system for mobile wireless devices MWDs in a facility that is geographically within a wireless communications network. The managed access system may comprise a plurality of directional antennas arranged around a periphery of the facility radio equipment coupled to said plurality of directional antennas and at least one MWD geolocation device for the wireless communications network. The method may comprise operating a management access controller to cooperate with the radio equipment to communicate with a given MWD within the facility block outside communications via the wireless communications network when the given MWD is an unauthorized MWD and provide outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD and cooperate with the at least one MWD geolocation device to locate the given MWD within the facility.

Different embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments are shown. Many different forms can be set forth and described embodiments should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The managed access system in accordance with a non limiting example permits communications from authorized mobile wireless devices and detects and disrupts wireless communications from unauthorized or contraband mobile wireless devices within a protected facility such as a correctional facility. The different embodiments will be described relative to a correctional facility but it should be understood that the managed access system in accordance with a non limiting example may be used in many different facilities including non secure and secure buildings such as government offices military compounds corporate workplaces and other areas where managed access systems may be implemented to detect and disrupt wireless communications from contraband and unauthorized mobile wireless devices but permit authorized users to communicate either internally within the facility or with an outside commercial communications network.

The managed access system as will be described can be scaled to address a wide variety of wireless communication threats within a facility and mitigate the threat presented by contraband cellular and other unauthorized mobile wireless devices. The managed access system may be used to prohibit contraband and other unauthorized mobile wireless devices from accessing commercial voice and data networks. The system may provide a full spectrum cellular service so that every mobile wireless device within the facility regardless of commercial carrier or technology e.g. as 4G LTE 3G LTE or other communication standards is connected to the managed access system for both voice and data network communications rather than connected to any commercial networks.

Because local commercial cellular coverage varies from facility to facility including a the number of carriers b the technology mix of 2G 3G and 4G standards and c the frequencies used by local carriers the managed access system is built upon a modular system architecture and allows the communications technology mix to be optimized for any facility. For example the managed access system may be reconfigured to address changes to the local communications environment and facilitate upgrades for future cellular and other communications technologies such as 5G and beyond. The managed access system includes support for WiFi 802.11X and other conventional radio technologies including push to talk radios that can be added to the cellular core functionality to increase the diversity of the types of communications technology that can be detected and disrupted by the system. Drone detection capability may be implemented.

As will be explained in greater detail below the managed access system is implemented after an initial site survey is performed where on site data is collected to determine which commercial carriers are in the area and what cellular technologies and frequency bands cover the particular facility where the managed access system will be implemented. The collected data is used to determine the technology mix and frequency coverage necessary to provide effective cellular mitigation within the facility. To implement the managed access system radio frequency RF propagation data for the facility is collected and provides empirical measurements to understand how signals propagate throughout the facility. This propagation data is used to design a Distributed Antenna System DAS using directional antennae and mitigate cellular access coverage from within the facility using a managed access system RF bubble over the facility. The empirical propagation data is used to predict signal levels in and around the facility. A cellular elevation survey is completed to determine the type and scope of infrastructure for improvements to support the managed access system RF bubble. Once installed the system is maintained and monitored including continuous system alarm monitoring.

Referring now to there is illustrated a high level block diagram of functional components in the managed access system for use in a facility such as a correctional facility which is geographically located within a wireless communications network for example a conventional commercial communications network. The system includes a management access controller or server that cooperates with a distributed antenna system formed from a plurality of directional antennae as explained in detail below. The system provides cellular monitoring to detect managed access system cellular mode of operation and detect changes in cellular coverage passive spectral monitoring to sense non cellular devices and signal geolocation using a series of internal and external sensors as will also be explained in greater detail below. The system provides state of health monitoring and system and configuration management to manage the configuration of the managed access system RF bubble. A local coverage database stores information regarding commercial carriers and devices. Changes in commercial coverage can be detected using the cellular monitoring and changes may be made to the distributed antenna system and other components as necessary. The system includes a graphical user interface where an overlay of the facility can be viewed data input and system changes made. Events are correlated and logged for example an event corresponding to the determination of an unauthorized user. Reports are generated and events stored in an event log database and records kept of different events for example when an unauthorized user is detected. The graphical user interface provides a common interface for monitoring operation of the system . Data is collected fused and displayed on the graphical user interface to show the operating environment within the facility. System state of health information can be viewed on the graphical user interface .

Referring now to there is shown a more detailed high level block diagram of the managed access system which includes the management access controller that is formed as a server and a segment of a radio or server rack . The term controller or server may be used interchangeably when referring to the management access server and the server includes a processor and a memory coupled thereto. The management access server cooperates with radio equipment such as picocell radios to communicate with a given mobile wireless device within the facility and blocks outside communications from a commercial wireless communications network when the given MWD is an unauthorized MWD and provides outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD. The management access server interoperates with the distributed antenna system that includes a plurality of directional antennas arranged around a periphery of the facility and includes a distributed antenna system master controller or server . Each directional antenna interoperates with the radio equipment via the distributed antenna system master and remote cellular power amplifiers . The radio equipment may include different radios including LTE radios UMTS radios IDEN radios GSM radios CDMA 2000 radios and CDMA EVDO radios in this example. Other radios for communicating with mobile wireless devices may be used depending on the type of coverage provided within and around the facility .

The management access server interoperates with an Ethernet switch and includes a network firewall physical security e.g. locks for the rack a GPS time server GPS splitter power distribution circuits and UPS uninterrupted power supply . The management access server interoperates through an electrical to optical E O interface to at least one external geolocation device that is formed as an external geolocation sensor array and includes wideband remote sensors as external geolocation devices which are operable for both cellular and non cellular communications to detect those signals in the facility . These wideband sensors are arranged around the periphery of the facility in a non limiting example and may communicate using an Ethernet connection via optical electrical converters and interconnect via an optical fiber bundle to the electrical optical interface and the management access server .

An internal location sensor array is arranged within the periphery of the facility and in an example located within a building. Internal geolocation devices are sensors that may connect via wireless link to each other and via Ethernet to the management access server .

The system includes cellular environmental monitoring of the wireless communications network and includes a remote cellular scanner that connects via Ethernet connection to the management access server . The monitoring device determines a change in the wireless communications network as a commercial network for example and implements a corresponding change in the radio equipment such as a change in the power level of one of the picocell radios a change in communications protocol and or a frequency change. Such protocols could include data and address formats address mapping changes routing changes change in acknowledgement systems change in direction of data flow and changes in sequence and flow control.

It is possible to change different communication standards including TCP IP models and protocol layering with different encapsulation data formats. Changes in software layering are possible. Different network protocols can be used. Power levels may be changed to increase or decrease the power in towers connected to radio equipment and directional antennas . Frequency changes may occur with changes in protocol or depending on what occurs at the wireless communications network such as commercial networks. Frequencies can vary depending on what other outside communication networks are used or other transmitters and radio sources are monitored and determined near the facility to adjust HF VHF UHF and other frequency ranges including those in the cellular commercial band. Different carriers have different frequencies including frequency bands such as 3G 4G GSM IS 95 as CDMA 3G and 5G. Different bands include the 700 800 850 1400 PCS AWS and BRS EBS frequency bands. These are non limiting examples only. Power may also depend on the type of cell such as use of a picocell that is a small cellular base station covering a small area such as a shopping mall or train station. The system allows an authorized user to connect into a commercial carrier network that provides roaming services so that even if an authorized user of a mobile wireless device is not able to connect directly to their carrier they use on their mobile wireless device it is possible to connect into a commercial carrier network that could be the same as the wireless communications network around a facility or a different network that provides roaming services. The system is deployable on cruise ships oil platforms and in mines as non limiting examples.

An example could be a change in the wireless communications network such as the addition of a rogue base station. The management access server would be changed and configured to block communications from any mobile wireless device MWD with that rogue base station. The management access server also may provide outside communications when the given mobile wireless device is an authorized mobile wireless device using a Session Initiation Protocol SIP and provide outside communication when the given mobile wireless device is an authorized mobile wireless device via another network other than the commercial wireless network such as a land line connection via the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . Another network could be used such as an Internet Protocol IP network.

The managed access system provides both the signaling and services for all cellular devices within the facility and uses strategic channel selection parameter configuration and signal dominance. For example the management access server strategically selects channels used to establish the voice and data network within the facility and may configure key parameters of the system to attract cellular and other mobile wireless devices to the system while making the commercial cellular network unavailable. This can be accomplished using a signal dominance such as delivering a higher power b delivering a better quality signal and c adjusting other parameters relative to the commercial carrier network to help ensure that the managed access system provides a cellular voice and data network that is the strongest and most attractive signal within the facility as seen by cellular or other mobile wireless devices and block any device from connecting directly to the commercial communications network . The system is effective for use with smart phones tablets cell phones modems and other types of wireless devices that use cellular technology and other radio frequency communications to access voice or data networks.

As noted before because commercial cellular carrier coverage varies between different facilities to optimize the system for a particular facility a survey of the cellular network in and around a facility is first completed. The collected data determines the technology mix and frequency coverage necessary to provide the effective cellular mitigation within the facility . Using this data the RF bubble is created around the facility using the distributed antenna system and its individual directional antennas . Inside the RF bubble all cellular and other mobile wireless devices connect to the management access server while outside the RF bubble cellular and other mobile wireless devices operate as normal by connecting to the available commercial communications network . Use of the management access server and radios connected to the directional antennas allow the size and shape of the RF bubble to be contoured and tailored to the facility by selecting specific antenna locations and RF power levels for each unique signal.

As noted before it is possible to have a roaming partnership with commercial carriers to give the flexibility to use authorized mobile wireless devices in their fullest commercial capability. Nothing has to change with the billing involved with the commercial carrier. The management access server may provide the device either all some or none of the services inside the bubble on a case by case basis. The system may push a mobile wireless device to a SIP a voice connection or PSTN and move from the cellular network as noted before.

Also the management access server may cooperate with the at least one MWD monitoring device to determine whether the radio equipment and at least one MWD monitoring device both detect the given mobile wireless device and may generate an indication or alarm when one and not the other of the at least one MWD monitoring device and radio equipment detects the given MWD. The system is tiered so that the indication or alarm could indicate that the MWD is outside the facility and beyond the fence line for example when the monitoring device detects the device but not the radio equipment .

The at least one MWD geolocation device is operable for both cellular and non cellular communications whether it is internal or external and in one embodiment includes a plurality of external geolocation devices forming an external sensor array and arranged around the periphery of the facility as the wideband remote sensors. These devices as the sensors may operate based on the time difference of arrival signals. Another series of MWD geolocation devices include a plurality of internal geolocation devices as internal sensors and arranged within the periphery of the facility and in an example within a building B as described later. The radios may be picocell radios each coupled to a respective directional antenna .

The management access server may implement a corresponding change in the radio equipment in response to a change in the wireless communications network of at least one of a change in the power level of at least one of the picocell radios a change in a communications protocol of at least one of the picocell radios and a frequency range of at least one of the picocell radios. This allows an RF bubble to form around the facility and which the RF bubble can be maintained and adjusted as necessary. The management access server may provide outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD via another network other than the wireless communications network such as through the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and or an Internet Protocol IP network such as through an SIP server . The radio equipment may be operable according to one of at least a LTE CDMA UMTS and GSM protocol as noted before.

As illustrated the facility includes at least one monitoring device for the wireless communications network. The management access server may cooperate with the monitoring device to determine a change in the wireless communications network and implement a corresponding change in the radio equipment to adjust the radio equipment and adjust the RF bubble. This is advantageous such as when a rogue base station is monitored and determined to be active in causing a change in the RF bubble such that the rogue base station communicates with a MWD within the facility. The management access server may block communications with the rogue base station . The management access server may also cooperate with at least one MWD monitoring device to determine whether the radio equipment and at least one MWD monitoring device both detect the given MWD and operate to determine if the system is operating.

The management access server also cooperates with the at least one MWD geolocation device as external or internal sensors to determine that a given MWD is within the facility and compares an identification of the given MWD to a last of authorized MWDs and determine whether a given MWD is unauthorized or authorized. It may coordinate with the wireless communications network to block outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD provide outside communications via the radio equipment and the wireless communications network when the given MWD is an authorized MWD. It may block the outside communications when the given MWD is an authorized MWD based upon a coordinated access denial with the wireless communications network by allowing the base stations and a service provider of the wireless communications network to prevent communications. As illustrated a network interface device operates as an in line ID monitor or filter to the wireless communications network and configured to communicate with MWDs via the radio equipment and compare an identification of a given MWD to a list of authorized MWDs to determine whether the given MWD is authorized or unauthorized. The management access server will filter communications between an unauthorized MWD and the network interface device that is configured to provide communications with the communications carrier. Communications will pass between an authorized MWD and the network interface device. The identification of the given MWD may be an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

After the signal is evaluated for its type and the RSSI measurements collected and a determination has been made the device is non cellular block a determination is made whether the device is authorized block and if not it is geolocated block . If the device is authorized then the process ends block .

The Distributed Antenna System DAS includes the plurality of directional antennas which in this example are positioned at a height of about 10 meters for this example correctional facility. In one example twelve 12 directional antennas are used in the example shown in and six are used in the example of . Another directional antenna may be located at the central portion of the facility .

An example directional antenna is an antenna manufactured and sold by Galtronics under the EXTENT tradename such as a model D5778I. These example antennas are designed as 60 60 narrow beam directional antenna with an operating range of 698 960 MHz and 1695 2700 MHz and adapted as a broadband directional single sector MIMO antenna for high capacity venues. Each directional antenna is connected to a radio which in one example is a picocell commercial radio as noted before and shown diagrammatically in and via the DAS master server .

The distributed antenna system is controlled via the DAS master server by the management access server that includes its main server or radio rack as illustrated in . The management access server provides a graphical user interface as explained above that can be controlled at a network operations center NOC from a remote operator station as illustrated. Authorized and unauthorized mobile wireless devices are detected as illustrated in the representation of the graphical user interface shown in . The management access server may implement corresponding changes in the radio equipment such as a changing the power level in one of the picocell radios b changing communications protocol in at least one of the picocell radios and or c changing a frequency range of at least one of the picocell radios. For example if a new transceiver is added to existing and known transceivers forming the commercial network as located near the property line of the facility such as shown in the external RF signal forces exerted against the facility will change because of the changed RF signal. An example of this scenario is shown in . When the baseline RF signal changes the DAS will make corresponding changes to one or more directional antennas to compensate for the external RF signal forces that had changed the internal RF signal forces to maintain the RF bubble .

The management access server with the corresponding DAS master server are contained in a secure facility such as a communications closet on site at the facility and in a cooled location and includes easy power access and a ready optical fiber connection. The directional antennae connect by optical fiber to the DAS master server which includes the appropriate processor RF interface modules optical modules power supply and UPS as shown in . The DAS master server connects via RF in one example to the management access server . The server or radio rack for the management access server and rack for the DAS master server in one example are 42U and 19 inch trays. In one example the management access server includes an HPDL 380 GEN9 64G RAM 2 TB hard drive and a 48 port GigE switch and a GigE firewall . The management access server includes the UPS PDU and a GPS splitter with the locks for physical security e.g. a locking 42U 19 inch rack with an RF patch panel radio trays and a managed access carrier GEN MACG . The main server and radio rack includes enhanced physical security with door locks and door ajar sensors and the additional security features of water humidity temperature and smoke sensors. A camera may be implemented to capture the area for breaches and use NETBOTZ physical security appliance and accessories. The GPS time circuit provides GPS time to the rack equipment via Ethernet. The GPS splitter splits and amplifies the GPS RF antenna signal to the rack equipment. The PDU provides 220 VAC with power sockets for the racked equipment and provides remote power on off voltage and amperage reading per plug and rack and provides alarms on faults.

A block diagram is shown in of an example tray layout of the main server and radio rack and picocell radio and with a 19 inch rack and mountable trays as part of the management access server and is shown in . As illustrated the uninterrupted power supply UPS connects to an input output panel and a fan bus to operate various fans and maintain cooling for the server . The power supply also interconnects to a power amplifier that powers the various radios . Ethernet power is also provided via the input output panel and to radios . Each tray may also include power fans and status LED s and may also include RF duplexer filters or amplifiers as necessary.

A Managed Access Carrier Generator MACG may interoperate with the distributed antenna system and is part of the management access server and has multi carrier transmitter functionality for wireless networks. It generates up to four independently tuned control channels in one of several wireless licensed bands. It is possible to modulate a PN sequence with multiple frequency bands with an RF power output of about 1 watt. It may include various interfaces including four individual TNC connectors in one example on a back patch panel with a combined carrier single TNC preferred so long as it is individually power controlled. The network may be 10 100 Ethernet TCP IP with a standard RJ45 on the back panel and use SNMP.

Generated messages may include bit active channels temperature frequency tuning output power adjustment per channel channel on or off soft reset and hard reset. The state of health reports and events may be generated via SNMP messaging with a time sensitive active temperature power radio fault and VSWR alarm. The distributed antenna system shown in provides the programmable interfaces for the radio signals and multiple remote units and directional antennas that sculpt the RF coverage for the RF bubble . As noted before the goal is to set the RF power levels for each cellular downlink signal at the fence line to be 6 dB stronger inside the boundary and 3 dB or more weaker outside the boundary as illustrated. The zone of uncertainty is generated due to the antenna pattern back lobes where the effect is amplified at higher antenna power towards the front lobes.

Referring now to a network security diagram for the managed access system shows various components that implement network security and operate to isolate equipment and prevent malicious intrusions and system degradation. The management access server interoperates via a switch to the uninterrupted power supply UPS and its various PDU outlets . A physical security device interoperates with a camera smoke detector water sensor humidity sensor temperature sensor and door sensor as also described above. The switch also interoperates with the DAS master server and a DAS uninterrupted power supply UPS and the remote units and DAS directional antennas . The radios form a radio array in the main server and radio rack and are interconnected via the switch to other internal components of the management access server and outward through the firewall to the event database where events are recorded with local status and control via the remote operator also shown in . From the firewall a connection is made to an internet service provider point of presence and then to the internet . The internet connection can be made to a remote firewall for remote status control with various gateways switches and controllers to allow status and control from a remote location. The Internet connection can also be via a third party Session Initiation Protocol SIP server and to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN .

Using this network security design shown in the graphical user interface may be used to provide entry of user credentials including a user name password and operator role. This may include in a corrections facility example the correction officer s station device authorizer contract or maintenance user and operations administrator. A display screen may be provided for each role based profile. A corrections officer operator station such as at the network operating center will have the appropriate screen and user interfaces operating 24 7 without a timeout. The graphical user interface allows the corrections officer to monitor RF transmissions view estimated device locations and estimate the types of signal emissions. Because a corrections officer may not have an authorized access or clearance and because of federal or state regulations it is possible that no specific data on device identification may be provided in some examples. The corrections officer should be able to observe health monitoring alerts that would be stored and listed in the event log database and allow the correctional staff to respond further. An administrator user role will allow a user to view all data available to the corrections officer stations but also acknowledge and clear alarms define and run reports and authorize system users. A device authorizer user will perform the tasks of the operations administrator and authorize devices for use within the facility including cellular and other mobile wireless devices and traditional RF radio frequency devices. These devices possibly may not report as unauthorized events for a corrections officer station. The contractor that built the system will have access and any contracts manager will have access.

As noted before with reference to the cellular monitoring of the system will monitor the cellular environment and notify the managed access server of any significant change to the RF bubble . It also will aid in establishing a base station survey of the commercial carrier network to implement the distributed antenna system .

An example monitoring device as a remote cellular scanner is a fixed autonomous telecommunications measuring receiver such as manufactured and sold by Gladiator Forensics under the tradename Gladiator 6700. One or more devices may be positioned at the facility in a central or other location at the fence line or other areas. This monitoring device provides layer 3 data for primary bands and technologies except IDEN and WiMax in an example although it is possible to provide a monitoring device to also scan IDEN and WiMax. The device or scanner operates at 0 55 C. and uses minimal power. It uses a 9 34 volt DC input and a control connection via USB or WiFi. It is a small package of about 3 6 9 inches in one example. It can be operated manually with single button operation and autonomously scans and measures 2G 3G and 4G wireless networks and supports GSM UMTS LTE TDD and FDD CDMA and EVDO. Most bands are supported in the frequency range of about 447 MHz to 3.8 GHz with pre selection up to 8 bands. It includes MIMO downlink characterization. It has a nominal operating power consumption of 40 watts and is small and lightweight at 7 kg and ruggedized to an environmental specification of class 2 vibration and shock. Downconverted RF to IF signals are pre filtered and passed to a signal processor where the data is collected and processed and sent to the drive application for analysis. It should be understood that other types of monitoring devices may also be used.

Changes to the commercial cellular network may have a significant impact on the performance of the managed access system and or size and shape of the coverage area i.e. the RF bubble . The cellular network monitoring device will examine any commercial carrier cellular network environment looking for changes in its environment that will impact the performance or coverage area of the managed access system . The monitoring system supports most frequency bands and cellular technologies currently in use within the United States including TD LTE LTE FDD UMTS CDMA 1 RTT CDMA EVDO and GSN.

The monitoring system also regularly surveys the cellular environment at the facility and the results of these surveys are compared to the previously established baseline for that site. A comparison will detect configuration changes to any commercial carrier signals including changes in transmitted power alteration of configuration parameters and changed or any new frequencies channels or bands that are deployed in the area. Regular monitoring is important because changes to the commercial cellular network will have an impact on the effectiveness of the managed access system s ability to prevent contraband or unauthorized mobile wireless devices from accessing the commercial voice and data networks. This task can be performed daily at the facility . Thus the system is able to mitigate changes in the commercial cellular footprint. The state of health monitoring and system and configuration management may operate 24 7 and the system may generate weekly reports for status and activity updates and periodic updates for changes in cellular environmental changes that are discovered to the external network configurations in the commercial network . The table below illustrates non limiting examples of different monitored features for the system .

When a commercial carrier change in the commercial communications network indicates a change is required to the software configuration for the managed access system a file may be pushed electronically to the management access server at the facility . Any software upgrades or updates can be coordinated with a designated facility officer or at the network operations center to ensure any potential system operation disruption is coordinated and minimized. Once the update is applied a repeat survey can be completed to ensure that the event risk has been mitigated and the issue resolved.

If a change in commercial carrier dictates a hardware configuration change in the system the system builder may coordinate with a designated facility office to schedule a site visit and make the prescribed changes. An example could be when the change in cellular coverage indicates an alignment of one or more directional antennas is required or an adjustment should be made to improve signal delivery and compensate for an increased commercial carrier signal level. If a change also indicates a new or additional hardware upgrade is necessary to maintain system performance effectiveness such as when a new commercial carrier has added coverage to the area the system builder may develop a proposal for necessary changes and add or upgrade equipment.

As noted before the monitoring device initially determines the existing commercial coverage site baseline using a cellular site survey. For example are bar charts showing an example of the measurements in a local cellular environment in one non limiting example that is assumed for a facility deployment. compares the local coverage to an assumed base station radio selection by technology per carrier and compares the local coverage to an assumed base station radio selection by frequency band per technology. is a table summarizing the base station technology mix that has been assumed at that facility.

A preliminary distributed antenna system design is implemented block and the location height and directional antenna type are determined based upon the site baseline and the system signal coverage zones established throughout the facility . The signal coverage boundary at the facility for the fence and property lines are also calculated. A preliminary distributed antenna system configuration is established.

The preliminary distributed antenna system design is verified and finalized block followed by an on site installation with verification and tuning of directional antennas block and on site system coverage tuning block . The process ends block .

An example of an external geolocation device or sensor that forms the external geolocation sensor array around the periphery of the facility is an array of sensor devices such as the RFeye array sensor manufactured and sold by CRFS as the RFeye series of sensor devices. These external geolocation devices are arranged around the periphery of the facility such as shown in and may provide a heat map with course granularity sensing of RF radiators such as cellular or other mobile wireless devices including non cellular devices that energize on the premises. This heat map may be generated from time difference of arrive TDOA power on arrival POA and angle of arrival AOA signals. This sensor array may also locate rogue signals autonomously and report them to the management access server . Each sensor may include a dynamic and programmable RF filter mask with logging of signals and mapping of signals on the graphical user interface to depict a floor plan at the facility and show the relative location of selected signals.

Referring to the facility shows six directional antenna locations indicated by the stars. The triangles depict four locations for external geolocation devices forming the external sensor array with devices located at the central sections of the rectangle formed at the fence line . The poles supporting the directional antennae at the mid section could also support an external geolocation device in a non limiting example. shows an example of the wideband remote sensor device with a semi hemispherical outer housing and support base . shows the outer housing removed and showing spiral directional antenna modules that are arranged at an angle to each other and in this example about 60 90 from each other. This external geolocation sensor array may be formed from remote sensor devices that are available in different sizes and antenna configurations and have frequencies ranging from 20 MHz to 18 GHz. The sensor devices use twin receiver channels to provide simultaneous monitoring directional finding DF and geolocation capabilities. The spiral directional antenna modules may be optimized for different frequency bands and arranged in multiple orientations. These antennae are sensitive to incoming signal polarizations including all linear polarizations. These sensor devices allow an angle of arrival bearing based on the received power to each antenna and may be overlaid on a user interface as maps satellite images and 2D 3D GIS data sets to give a positional display and geolocation probabilities for a mobile wireless device in the facility.

With angle of arrival sensing the devices rapidly switch between the directional antenna modules and respond directly to the received RF power. Thus they are effective with most types of RF transmission. Using angle of arrival three receiver points ensure geolocation to a small area even when the target is colinear with two receivers. Results may be limited by the noise floor of the receiver.

With time difference of arrival the devices use synchronous time domain to determine the relative time of arrival of a signal at different receiver locations. Two monitoring receiver points provide geolocation probability in two dimensions along a hyperbolic curve while three receiver points provide geolocation probability to a bounded area or point. An advantage is that the processing gain of correlations permits successful geolocation of signals close to or even below the receiver noise floor. Power on arrival uses synchronous frequency domain and is beneficial for those mobile wireless devices that are close to or among different buildings where amplitude comparison will yield sufficient differences. It uses three or more monitoring receiver points.

An internal location sensor array is formed from internal geolocation devices as internal sensors and are arranged within the periphery of the facility. In addition to adding the ability to localize a cellular or other mobile wireless device in and around the buildings on facility grounds the internal sensor array provides the added capability to detect and estimate the location of WiFi devices in and around the various buildings of the facility .

An example internal geolocation sensor is a location based WiFi and cellular detection and monitoring device manufactured and sold by AirPatrol under the tradename ZoneAware as a precision location based services platform. These sensors may interoperate with a ZoneEngine application programming interface also manufactured and sold by AirPatrol. The sensor location is accurate to within 6 to 50 feet depending on the type of device and their spacing. The sensors may incorporate positioning capabilities using beacons and a Bluetooth standard known as Bluetooth Low Energy BLE to broadcast messages to other devices within a small tunable radius around the beacon. In one non limiting example sensors may be located approximately 65 feet apart with different sensors located on different floors and linked in a mesh network via WiFi or connected via wired Ethernet or Power over Ethernet. The sensors are deployed throughout buildings in the facility usually on the exterior of the buildings and at a higher elevation for enhanced security to prevent tampering.

The detection of cellular signals using the managed access system is a layered or tiered approach and focuses on determining which internal or external geolocation sensor detected the signal and at what level the signal was detected. An indication or alert can be placed on the user interface to indicate the sensor or sensors that identified the signal transmission and at what power level. This alert will provide a general location where the mobile wireless devices are located such as shown in the example of which illustrates the user interface for example at an operator s screen at the network operations center . This user interface shows an example building at the facility and the alert on the floor for the mobile wireless device at an area near the stairwell

Detection and accuracy of the localization functionality are dependent on the ability of the sensor to 1 receive a signal at a sufficient level often 100 dBm or greater 2 the construction of the facility being protected and 3 the placement separation of the sensors themselves. An example placement for sensors is shown in the facility of . In this non limiting example of a correctional facility many sensors are positioned on the exterior of buildings indicated at where they will not be reached easily and removed and can be readily observed by security. A few sensors indicated at are located inside some of the larger buildings for example which may have upper floors or internally secure areas.

In the example of the accuracy of a sensor is equal to about twice the radius of a sensor separation distance. This will vary depending on the building type and the actual accuracy measurements would be determined based upon a completion of the site survey and design analysis. Usually mobile wireless devices would be detected and marked with the resolution of about 50 meters. This is a layered approach to detection and disrupting unauthorized calls. If a facility desires a higher degree of accuracy this can be accomplished by increasing the number of sensors resulting in enhanced accuracy to within five meters. This enhanced accuracy will increase the cost of any facility installation however.

The managed access system prohibits cellular and other mobile wireless devices within the protected facility from accessing commercial voice and data networks by attracting and providing service to those devices within the facility. The system interacts with each device using industry standard messaging traffic and these device interactions can be used to generate event records within the system that identify specific information. The system may process each event with a time date stamp the type of event registration voice call text message and other details of the event along with any electronic hardware identifier IMEI ESN MEID that is associated with the event including carrier account identifiers IMSI MIN and the dialed number if applicable. The system may store each event record in the local database such as the event log database . The system provides a flexible routing capability that allows the system to route unauthorized device voice call and data access attempts. For example voice calls could be routed to a standard or custom pre recorded announcement or to a voice mailbox or even local dialed extension.

Further information could be verified as to the caller to allow the call to be connected or disabled. Data access attempts can be routed to a standard or customized website maintained locally within the facility or can be configured to send traffic to a predefined address on the outside commercial communications network . Authorized users are allowed to access outside voice and data networks so their devices can make outside voice calls send texts and access content on the internet. This may be authorized by several techniques through the managed access system such as redirecting authorized devices to the commercial communications network and allow them to access the outside voice and data networks. This approach allows an authorized mobile wireless device access to all services provided by their home commercial carrier. Another approach allows all authorized calls through the existing inmate telephone system ITS but this approach has privacy concerns for authorized device users.

A preferred technique is to provide voice conductivity through a third party SIP server and route text and data accesses directly to the internet through a gateway connection. This would allow the managed access server to provide conductivity to any authorized devices and route the voice and data traffic to the Internet and to the appropriate off site service connection point. Up to forty authorized users may be used in an example and even more authorized users depending on the equipment and set up. The managed access system will permit 911 calls from any device whether authorized or not and calls can be directed to the appropriate local emergency services agency or facility security office using the voice over IP VoIP connection through the SIP server for example. Emergency 911 calls can result in an alert to the organization s security office that the call was initiated by a mobile wireless device within the facility . In the event of a 911 call by a mobile wireless device connected to the managed access system a local emergency Public Safety Answer Point PSAP may be the answering location and the proposed baseline implementation routes the call through the locally hosted SIP server for conductivity. This will result in a call appearing to be calling from a land line phone within the facility.

As noted before each call interaction with a mobile wireless device connected to the managed access system generates an event record within the system that includes the time date stamp the type of event such as the registration voice call text message and other details along with the hardware identifier and any carrier account identifier that was associated with the event. The system stores each event record in the event log database such as shown in . Because each of the attempted calls is stored as a unique event record the system may compare the data to search for the use of multiple SIM Subscriber Identity Module cards by a single hardware device or the occurrence of a single SIM in multiple hardware devices. This information may be automatically flagged and the device blacklisted from use and placed on an investigative user interface screen for quick reference such as shown in the user interface screen in . In the indicia the thumbs down corresponds to an unauthorized device and the thumbs up to an authorized device. The device with the swapped SIM card may be color coded differently. Other device details are included as illustrated including device identifiers type of calls such as voice or SMS and other details.

As noted before different reports may be generated with the aid of the user interface such as the example screen shots in showing an authorized device with the thumbs up designation and unauthorized devices with the thumbs down designation. Further details of those devices can be determined by clicking on appropriate tabs. The graphical user interface may include information such as the time of the event e.g. call or SMS text device identifier and even number dialed.

The system may also operate in a passive or active mode. In the passive mode the system allows a mobile wireless device within the coverage area formed by the RF bubble to interact with the system but does not disrupt access to the commercial communications network . It may be used during system verification prior to going live. Once the system is tuned and adjusted it can be switched over to operate in the active mode where the system attracts and holds cellular and other mobile wireless devices within the facility coverage area. The system prevents those devices from obtaining service from the commercial networks. In this mode authorized mobile wireless devices are allowed access to voice and data services while unauthorized devices are not. The active mode would be the normal mode of operation for the system .

Because the system has enterprise capability with connection to external communications of a commercial communications network the system is provisioned to log and report event data in customizable ways that make use easy for the operator. In this case reports system alerts emails and even text messages can be sent and displayed on the graphical user interface when specific events occur. This may include 

1 Health Monitoring Provides the ability to monitor and view the system health including status and performance of all major components equipment alarms software issues performance of the servers and web portals.

2 Report Generation The system also provides the ability to monitor and generate reports on the system performance and threat assessments create alert logs audit trails and long term activity records. Time and date information are synchronized to the facility logs. Some of the standard reports and alerts are listed below.

Blocked Call Detail Record Identifies all blocked cellular wireless calls and includes information about the facility from which the call was placed i.e. date and time originator s phone number originator s cellular device hardware ID and destination phone number dialed digits . If the optional sensor array is installed a location estimate is also provided.

User ID Report Reflects the activity of user ID accounts created activated during a specific reporting period. This report indicates the name and User ID of the device user that created activated the account with the date and time stamp the user account s created activated the date the profile was deactivated the last successful or attempted log in and all updates to the account.

Audit Log Provides the User ID name log in date and time activities files accessed for each session. The system also records and reports the user ID name time and date of failed attempts.

Authorized Number Notifies the appropriate operator of the system when a new mobile wireless device has been added or devices have been deleted from the authorized cellular device list. Details the telephone numbers that have been identified as authorized to make calls within the facility. Includes the unique user identifier of the personnel that entered or modified the Authorized Number status as well as the dates of status changes to each number.

Authorized Number Expiration Provides for authorized cellular wireless device or group of devices due to expire within 30 calendar days.

The system is designed to self monitor and report the system state of health in order to minimize the operational labor costs. Each functional component of the system is monitored to ensure it is operating normally so the system operates at peak performance. The system verifies communication links to provide a high reliability fault management approach. Any alarm or change in the operating conditions generates a system alert. All alerts are first acknowledged by the appropriate operator prior to the condition being either automatically or manually cleared.

As part of the state of health monitoring the system may provide a physical security feature such as the network security shown in that detects physical intrusions or hardware tampering attempts such as an unauthorized opening of an equipment rack. The physical security also provides the ability to monitor humidity temperature and other environmental conditions remotely. Alerts are generated to protect the system integrity from physical intrusion and environmental threats. Cameras for example are mounted to monitor the main system rack and are used to visually verify personnel prior to allowing physical access to hardware.

As noted before the physical security includes the ability to control physical access to hardware and record and log physical access events. Built in physical security includes an integrated camera and environmental sensors including temperature humidity airflow such as smoke door and audio and video recording . By monitoring these parameters the system is able to ensure that the system state of health is protected from accidental environmental faults and ensure any attempts to alter the system maliciously can be recorded for corrective action.

Automated Health Monitoring includes status of the physical hardware elements of the system performance monitoring and metric collection fault detection and alarms. The status of each line replaceable unit LRU is tracked and reported independently including damaged cables antennas and sensors.

The system includes an uninterruptable power supply UPS with sufficient levels of stored power to support the management access server and the associated DAS master for 30 minutes during interruptions to primary power to the facility . In the event that power is not promptly restored and the remaining power levels begin to reach a drained state the system may record an entry in the event log database and implement a graceful shutdown to avoid damage. When power is restored manual reactivation may result in the system restarting and resuming full operation.

In order to control costs any remote LRU s may be connected to protected back up power allowing their continued operation during temporary power outages. The system is also designed to withstand the challenging environment of a correctional institution if the system is implemented in such a facility. As such it is not anticipated to require frequent repair from routine damage of wear and tear. Should the system be damaged from events such as lightning strikes the system provider or installer may be automatically alerted to the event by the state of health monitoring and the system may generate an alert to notify an operator and system provider of the issue.

It is possible that the system may identify and characterize rogue cellular towers using the various sensors and scanners in accordance with a non limiting example. An example is a rogue fempto cell tower which is typically a small low power cellular base station and connects via broadband such as by DSL or cable to the network . Rogue fempto cell towers create threats to the managed access system and will be identified and managed. Other towers may be a newly provisioned commercial service or covertly placed near and network connected. A fempto cell could also be a voice over IP VoIP WiFi cell tower or rogue cell tower. The various devices and sensors may use a cellular protocol layer 3 information to identify the existence and location of a rogue cellular tower in near real time. The sensors identify the operating characteristics of the new and or rogue cellular towers in sufficient detail to allow the site to be mitigated by the managed access system or they may be investigated by others. It is advantageous over those techniques that authenticate tokens and blacklist or use a baseband man in the middle approach for mitigating threats.

Referring now to it is also possible to provide a cellular in line ID monitor as a network interface device for access management. This in line monitor will provide device identification and filtering for controlled device access between a specific cellular base station and commercial networks. For example the base station may be configured to induce a registration event as a localized LAC Location Area Code and the in line ID monitor may be installed on the S1 MME interface between the base station and the core network. The in line ID monitor will compare the IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity to a database of approved IMSI ID s allowing only approved devices to register with the commercial network . Any non approved devices are connected to a local core network that is hosted within the system allowing unauthorized devices to be managed within the system for assured security. further shows the managed access system and its management access server and the monitoring function with the monitoring device and network operations control center . The passive scanning and signal geolocation is operable by internal and external sensors . The in line ID monitor connects to an approved ID database and approved devices in the commercial communications network .

As noted before the management access server may filter communications between an unauthorized MWD and the network interface device as the in line IDS monitor and pass communications between an authorized MWD and the network interface device. As noted before the system is a tiered approach. Unauthorized devices may be held within a holding pen where no communications are allowed and it is possible to deny portions of services and allow the devices to communicate with other authorized or unauthorized devices only in the facility. It is possible to limit outside communications to the device. It is possible to allow the devices to text an SMS message. It is also possible to allow the devices to send alerts and other messages. Thus the management access server may be configured to permit an unauthorized MWD to communicate with other MWD s at the facility whether unauthorized or authorized depending on how the system is established.

Referring now to a managed private cellular access system operates similar to a commercial service provider s offering service to all devices within the Customer Site Coverage area as the managed access system . That system interfaces the commercial communications network using standards based interfaces for roaming partnerships. Once any devices are registered the system uses an authorized access database to manage which devices are allowed access outside the system.

As noted before the site survey will be used to form a baseline of the existing commercial cell coverage design distributed antenna system verify the distributed antenna system and finalize construction. As a non limiting example once the system is installed and operational and tuning of the distributed antenna system verified a Site Acceptance Test SAT is completed which ensures that operational coverage and functionality are acceptable for the facility . Table 1 below is an example of the tests and verifications that may be completed for final installation as a non limiting example.

Once the physical site survey is accomplished as explained above engineers can determine site specific data such as power and cooling requirements for equipment any cable routing access any access and power requirements and any antenna locations and similar details. Engineers may determine specifics relating to local or state building codes and issues relating to site customer specific permitting. Existing underground utilities may be identified and any other cables tested prior to being energized including existing and new voltage fiber optic or Ethernet cables.

As noted before the managed access system monitors and generates reports for system performance and threat assessments such as alert logs audit trails and long term activity records. These reports can be standardized. Possible reports could include a blocked call detail record that identifies all blocked cellular wireless calls and includes information about the facility from which the call was placed its date and time the originator s phone number the originator s cellular device hardware identifier ID and the destination phone number as the dialed digits.

A user ID report may reflect the activity of user ID accounts created and activated during a specific reporting period. This report may indicate the name and user ID of a user that created or activated the account with the date and time stamp and the user accounts that were created or activated and the date the profile was deactivated as well as the last successful or attempted log in. Information regarding the creation modification and deletion of a user account may be generated. An audit log report may provide the user ID name log in date and time activities with the files accessed for each session and the records and reports for the user ID name time and date of failed attempts.

An authorized number alert report may be generated to notify an appropriate operator when a new mobile wireless device has been added or mobile wireless devices deleted from the authorized device list. Authorized number reports may detail the telephone numbers that have been identified as authorized to make calls within the facility . This report may include the unique identifier of a user that entered or modified the authorized number status and the dates of status changes to each number. Expiration reports may be provided for authorized cellular wireless device or groups of devices due to expire within 30 calendar days as a non limiting example.

Software CSCI Computer Software Configuration Items are now described with reference to . For example the managed access server may operate with an operator interface such as at the NOC as shown in . A web server interacts between the operator and a bridge including an Applications Programming Interface API library and a managed access server main application which may be responsible for command control of the system and manage the access to a voice data network and a state of health SOH for system hardware. It may authorize devices and access restrictions and generate reports of various activities and include database interactions.

The MAS main application CSCI is shown in and includes functional components of the message manager test manager SOH manager network manager and surveyor manager with interfaces to the database interface and a geolocation interface . An example function of the message manager of is shown in detail in and operates with the bridge and web server with requests to the main application from the operator and responses back and forward indications to the operator. The message manager handles buffering of incoming messages and dispatches the incoming requests . Different supported message types include requests that are input from the graphical user interface and a response as a reply to a received request message. The indication is an unsolicited message sent by the main application.

The network manager shown in will maintain control and status for all hardware including SNMP and the API from the manufacturer. It may include a database that maintains site specific hardware configurations such as the IP address hardware type manufacturer and other details.

The surveyor manager will initiate periodic surveys of surrounding cellular towers and the survey results are stored in the local coverage database . Alarms are sent to the users when a new tower is detected a new channel is detected or a channel power has changed. A database may include system settings hardware configuration alarms listing of authorized devices detected RF events and authorized users as the system operator.

Referring now to the geolocation interface interoperates with a guard server and sends event messages when an RF signal is detected as with the external geolocation sensors forming the external geolocation sensor array and also operates with the internal geolocation sensors forming the internal location sensor array to obtain device location information. The internal sensor array may have its own sensor database . The test manager in may provide interactive menu driven test capabilities for testing the system.

The web server serves the web application and supports multiple simultaneous operators. As shown in the communications bridge between the web server and the MAS main application will maintain a list of connected users and provides for Remote Procedure Calls RPC for the web server and may use the MAS Applications Programming Interface API libraries as part of the managed access system and be incorporated into the NOC interface with network connections. Third party applications may include the My SQL database for storing events and settings and Quortus may provide core functionality for the cellular network and interface with radio hardware. A star solutions PDSN may provide data communications for CDMA radios and evaluate PDSM software options. GSOAP generates SOAP services for communicating with Quortus. Open source hardware may include node.js as a web server application and SNMP as the API for excessive hardware control and status information. Qt may be the framework used for a bridge application and Protobuf as a messaging library. Boost may provide general utilities and websocket PP may be the websocket API for interfacing with CRFS geolocation software as described above. Rapid JSON may be used as a parser for geolocation data and asterisk may provide a path for voice communications to an SIP trunk. The network operations center can be a remote facility.

This application is related to copending patent applications entitled MANAGED ACCESS SYSTEM WITH MONITORING DEVICE TO DETERMINE AND CHANGE RADIO EQUIPMENT and MANAGED ACCESS SYSTEM WITH MONITORING DEVICE TO DETERMINE SYSTEM OPERABILITY and MANAGED ACCESS SYSTEM THAT DETERMINES AUTHORIZED AND UNAUTHORIZED MOBILE WIRELESS DEVICES and MANAGED ACCESS SYSTEM HAVING FILTERED COMMUNICATIONS USING NETWORK INTERFACE DEVICE which are filed on the same date and by the same Assignee the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

