---

title: Method and system for product restocking using machine-readable codes
abstract: The present disclosure provides a number of systems and associated processes for using machine-readable codes to perform a transaction. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system and associated processes for consolidating and replacing various forms of payment (e.g. credit cards, debit cards, and cash) with a single payment system. Further, embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system and associated processes for reordering a product provided by a product provider. Moreover, embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system and associated processes for accepting a gift, or gift transaction, associated with a gift card. In addition, embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system and associated processes for performing an Automatic Teller Machine (ATM) transaction using a machine-readable code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565186&OS=09565186&RS=09565186
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09565186
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150605
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 937 569 filed on Jul. 9 2013 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PRODUCT RESTOCKING USING MACHINE READABLE CODES which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and which is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 096 863 filed on Apr. 28 2011 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PRODUCT RESTOCKING USING MACHINE READABLE CODES which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and which is related to the following applications the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein 

Machine readable codes such as barcodes and matrix barcodes can be used to encode or represent data. These machine readable codes can be read or scanned by specially designed optical scanners i.e. barcode readers. Originally machine readable codes were limited in application due to the small amount of data that could be encoded. Further the need for special optical scanners also limited the environments that could use machine readable codes.

Today technology has advanced such that machine readable codes can be used to encode a much greater amount of information than the original linear barcodes. Further it is now possible to use digital cameras to read barcodes. These digital cameras have become almost ubiquitous thanks in large part to the number of mobile phones that come equipped with cameras. Thus the potential uses for machine readable codes have also greatly increased.

One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for consolidating and replacing various forms of payment e.g. credit cards debit cards and cash with a single payment system. In one embodiment the system can include one or more of a client system and a merchant system. The client system can read a machine readable code generated by a merchant system associated with a merchant or other product or service provider and present the information encoded by the machine readable code to a customer or other product or service purchaser. Preferably this machine readable code includes at least enough information for the customer to determine whether to complete the transaction. For example the machine readable code can include an identity of the product or service being purchased price information associated with the product or service and a return policy associated with the merchant. In one embodiment upon receiving confirmation that the customer desires to proceed with the transaction the client system can initiate payment by contacting a payment system associated with the customer. This payment system can then transfer payment to the merchant by for example transferring cash from the customer s account or using credit associated with the customer s account. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure enable a customer to complete a transaction without using for example cash a credit card or a debit card.

One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for reordering or restocking a product provided by a product provider. The system can read a machine readable code associated with a product. Generally the machine readable code is made available by the product provider and identifies at least the product and the customer. The customer can use the system to scan the machine readable code indicating a desire to purchase a resupply of the product and causing the product provider to ship the resupply to the customer. In one embodiment the system and associated processes can be used to reorder a service such as a carpet cleaning service.

One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for accepting a gift or gift transaction associated with a gift card. The system can read a machine readable code associated with the gift card. Generally the gift card is created by a retail gift provider on behalf of a gift giver and identifies the gift product or service and the gift recipient. In some embodiments a third party may generate the gift card on behalf of the retail gift provider the gift giver or both. The gift recipient can use the system to scan the machine readable code indicating a desire to accept the gift. In some embodiments the gift recipient can confirm or update transaction details associated with the gift transaction e.g. the product identity or the shipping address . Advantageously in some embodiments the ability to confirm gift transaction details can reduce costs associated with shipping unwanted items or shipping the gift to the wrong location. In one embodiment changes to the gift transaction by the gift recipient can be stored by the retail gift provider and or provided to the gift giver to facilitate future gift transactions.

One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for performing an Automatic Teller Machine ATM transaction using a machine readable code. Advantageously in some embodiments using the machine readable code eliminates the need for a debit card credit card or other cash withdrawal card or token for interacting with an ATM. In one embodiment the system can communicate a desired ATM transaction with a bank. The system can then receive a machine readable code associated with the desired ATM transaction. By providing the machine readable code to the ATM the system can complete the desired transaction. In one embodiment the system can be used to exchange a token check or money slip associated with a machine readable code for cash.

Many variations of these example systems and associated processes are described below in more detail with reference to the drawings. Further in some cases one or more of the various embodiments and systems can be combined into fewer embodiments or systems.

The transaction environment includes a retail store that represents any provider of a product or service. For example the retail store can be a clothing store a grocery store an electronics store a hair salon or a car mechanic to name a few. To simplify discussion the rest of this disclosure will describe the retail store as a product provider. Generally the retail store represents a brick and mortar store. However in some embodiments the retail store can be an Internet based store or ecommerce website. Advantageously in some embodiments the machine readable code can serve as a credit card replacement in both the brick and mortar realm as well as the ecommerce realm by facilitating interactions with third party payment systems via a mobile computing system . Further in some embodiments the retail store can represent a product provider associated with both a brick and mortar store and an Internet based store.

Divider is intended to represent a conceptual division between the customer and the retail store and the merchant . Thus the mobile computing system to the left of the divider is associated with the customer and the point of sale system and transaction repository to the right of the divider are associated with the retail store .

In one embodiment the customer can present to the merchant or identify to the merchant a product not shown that the customer is considering purchasing. The merchant can then provide information associated with the product to the point of sale system such as by typing in the information or by scanning a machine readable code associated with the product. Alternatively the customer presents the product directly to the point of sale system as occurs with self checkout systems and the point of sale system can then obtain the information associated with the product from a machine readable code associated with the product a database or both. The point of sale system can include a machine readable code interface and a merchant transaction processor .

The machine readable code interface can include any system configured to read or scan a machine readable code. For example the machine readable code interface can include a barcode scanner a camera or an optical reader to name a few. In some embodiments the machine readable code interface can be configured to present a machine readable code enabling another device with a machine readable code interface to read or scan the machine readable code. For example the machine readable code interface associated with the mobile computing system can scan or read a machine readable code presented by the machine readable code interface associated with the point of sale system .

The merchant transaction processor can include any system that can create and process machine readable codes. These machine readable codes can be associated with various transaction details including information associated with the product information associated with the retail store and information associated with a completed transaction.

Once a machine readable code associated with transaction details has been created the customer can use the mobile computing system associated with the customer to read or scan the machine readable code. The mobile computing system can generally include any mobile computing device such as cellular phones smart phones PDAs tablets portable video game devices and portable music players to name a few. The mobile computing system can include a machine readable interface to read or scan the machine readable code. Further the mobile computing system can include a client transaction processor . The client transaction processor can include any system that can translate the transaction details associated with the machine readable code into a human readable form and cause the human readable transaction details to be presented to the customer . Further the client transaction processor can include any system that can initiate a payment on behalf of the customer to the retail store .

If the customer approves of the transaction as defined by the transaction details translated into human readable form the mobile computing system can cause the third party payment system to pay the retail store the amount specified by the transaction details. The third party payment system can include any system that can pay a payee on behalf of a payer. For example the third party payment system can be a bank a credit provider such as a credit card company or an online payment service such as PayPal and Google Checkout to name a few. In one embodiment the mobile computing system can communicate in a wired or wireless manner with the third party payment system via network . The network may include any system for allowing multiple computing devices to communicate with each other. For example the network can be a LAN a WAN the Internet a cellular telephony network combinations of the same or the like. Further the network can be wired wireless or a combination of the same.

In one embodiment if the customer approves of the transaction the customer can provide a money slip associated with a pre defined value to the merchant . The money slip is described in more detail with respect to below. The merchant can then use the process described in below to cash or deposit the money slip. Further the money slip can be created using the process described in below.

In one embodiment to access an account associated with the customer the customer provides account access information to the third party payment system . The third party payment system can store account information associated with the customer s account in the user account repository . The user account repository can also be used to store merchant account information associated with the retail store . In one embodiment each third party payment system is associated with its own user account repository . Alternatively two or more third party payment systems may use the same account repository .

As part of the payment process the third party payment system can communicate with the point of sale system via the network . The third party payment system can provide a confirmation that the customer has caused payment to be transferred from an account associated with the customer to an account associated with the retail store . The point of sale system can store a record of the completed transaction in the transaction repository . Further the point of sale system can provide the mobile computing system with access to another machine readable code that can serve as a receipt for the completed transaction. The mobile computing system can store this receipt in the payment account repository or an alternative repository not shown designated for the storage of transaction receipts.

The process begins at block where for example the client transaction processor accesses a machine readable code comprising transaction details associated with a transaction. The transaction details can comprise any information that can be associated with a transaction. For example the transaction details can include a product or service identifier a unique identifier associated with a specific product instance a merchant or retail store identifier a price a return policy and a product condition e.g. new used refurbished open box or floor model to name a few.

At block the transaction details are presented to the customer associated with the mobile computing system in a human readable format. In one embodiment presenting the transaction details to the customer comprises the client transaction processor translating information associated with the machine readable code into a human readable format.

At block the client transaction processor receives a verification response from the customer . At decision block the client transaction processor determines if the verification response indicates that the transaction details are accurate. In one embodiment this may also involve determining if the verification response indicates the customer desires to proceed with the transaction. If the client transaction processor determines that the verification response indicates that either the transaction details are inaccurate or the customer does not wish to proceed with the transaction the client transaction processor rejects the transaction at block . Rejecting the transaction may comprise communicating a rejection to the merchant or the point of sale system and or not initiating payment to the retail store .

If the verification response indicates the transaction details are accurate the client transaction processor initiates payment for the transaction at block . In one embodiment initiating payment comprises contacting a third party payment system to perform the payment transaction. The payment transaction is described in further detail with respect to below. Contacting the third party payment system can further comprise providing account access information such as a user name and password and a subset of the transaction details such as a price and a merchant or retail store identifier to the third party payment system . In one embodiment the client transaction processor receives a third party payment system selection and account access information associated with customer and the third party payment system from the customer . Alternatively one or more of a third party payment system selection and account access information associated with customer and the third party payment system is accessed from the payment account repository .

At block the mobile computing device accesses a machine readable code comprising transaction details associated with a completed transaction. The transaction details can comprise any information that can be associated with a completed transaction. For example the transaction details can include a product or service identifier a unique identifier associated with a specific product instance a merchant or retail store identifier a price a return policy an identification of the third party payment system the date the transaction occurred and a product condition e.g. new used refurbished open box or floor model to name a few. In one embodiment the payment account repository can store the machine readable code associated with the completed transaction. In one embodiment the machine readable code associated with the completed transaction can serve as a receipt. In one embodiment the transaction details do not include a price thereby enabling the machine readable code to serve as a gift receipt. Alternatively the mobile computing system can remove the price from the machine readable code. In one embodiment block is optional.

The process begins at block where for example the merchant transaction processor receives transaction details associated with a transaction. These transaction details can comprise the same types of information described above in relation to block . Further these transaction details may be received from one or more sources including for example a machine readable code associated with a product transaction details stored in a data store not shown associated with the retail store user input from merchant and an internal data store not shown associated with point of sale system .

At block the merchant transaction processor generates a machine readable code associated with the transaction. This machine readable code can comprise an encoded version of any of the transaction details obtained at block . At block the merchant transaction processor provides the machine readable code to a user system such as the mobile computing device . The merchant transaction processor determines at decision block whether payment confirmation was received. In one embodiment there is a threshold period of time associated with decision block . If payment confirmation is not received before the threshold period of time expires the merchant transaction processor determines that the payment confirmation was not received.

If the payment confirmation is not received the merchant transaction processor rejects the transaction at block . Rejecting the transaction may comprise doing nothing informing the customer that the transaction is rejected and or informing the merchant that the transaction is rejected.

If the payment confirmation is received the merchant transaction processor accesses payment confirmation details associated with the payment confirmation at block . These payment confirmation details can comprise any information that can be associated with a successful or unsuccessful payment transaction. For example the payment confirmation details can indicate whether payment was made the amount of the payment in which account the payment was made the identity of the third party payment system when the payment will be accessible by the retail store and any surcharges for using the third party payment system to name a few.

At decision block the merchant transaction processor determines if the payment confirmation details indicate a successful payment. In one embodiment the merchant transaction processor automatically determines if the payment was successful by comparing one or more of the payment confirmation details with the transaction details. Alternatively or additionally the merchant transaction processor translates the payment confirmation details into human readable form and causes the human readable payment confirmation details to be presented to the merchant who can then confirm whether or not the payment was successful.

If the payment was not successful the merchant transaction processor rejects the transaction at block . If the payment was successful the merchant transaction processor completes the transaction. In one embodiment completing the transaction may comprise indicating that the transaction was successful to the merchant or to the customer . In one embodiment completing the transaction may comprise storing in the transaction repository one or more of the machine readable code the transaction details associated with the machine readable code the payment confirmation and the payment confirmation details associated with the payment confirmation. In one embodiment completing the transaction may comprise generating a receipt associated with the transaction and providing the receipt to the customer and or the mobile computing system . This receipt can be a traditional paper receipt or it can be a machine readable code printed on paper transmitted to the mobile computing system or made available to the mobile computing system via an optical imaging device such as a camera.

In one embodiment the process may also comprise determining if the payment confirmation was provided by a trusted source. This can comprise determining if a signature associated with the payment confirmation is associated with the third party system . In one embodiment the payment confirmation can be encrypted. Thus block may also comprise decrypting the payment confirmation.

The process begins at block where for example the third party payment system receives payment details associated with a transaction from the mobile computing system . The payment details can include any information that facilitates transferring money or credit between an account associated with a payer e.g. the customer and an account associated with a payee e.g. the retail store . For example the payment details may include payee account identification information payer account identification information a price and payer account access information e.g. user name and password.

At decision block the third party payment system determines if the payer is associated with a valid or existing account. In one embodiment determining if the payer is associated with a valid account can also comprise authenticating the payer and determining that the payer is associated with the account the payer is attempting to access.

If the payer is associated with a valid account at decision block the third party payment system determines if the payment transaction is authorized. In one embodiment determining if the payment transaction is authorized comprises determining if the payer has sufficient credit or money in the account to complete the transaction. In one embodiment determining if the payment transaction is authorized may be based for example on one or more of the product or service the identity of the payer the identity of the payee the identity of any additional organization or user associated with the account and any usage rules associated with the account. For example supposing the payer s account is also associated with a corporation e.g. the payer s employer the corporation may have restricted the ability to use the payer s account at particular retailers of for particular products. As a second example a parent could give his or her child authorization to use an account but restrict the kinds of transactions that can be completed using the account. In one embodiment receiving the payment details at block is sufficient to determine that the payment transaction is authorized at block . If the payment transaction is authorized at decision block the third party payment system determines if the payee is associated with a valid or existing account. In one embodiment determining if the payee is associated with a valid account can comprise authenticating the payee and determining if the payee is associated with the account that has been identified as the target of the payment.

If the payee is associated with a valid account the third party payment system processes the payment transaction at block . Processing the payment transaction can comprise transferring money or credit from the payer s account to the payee s account. At block the third party payment system provides payment confirmation to the payee. In one embodiment block may also comprise providing payment confirmation to the payer. In one embodiment block may also comprise storing a record or log of the transaction at the user account repository .

If the third party payment system makes a negative determination at decision block or the third party payment system rejects the payment transaction at block . Rejecting the payment transaction may also comprise providing a transaction denied response to the payer and or the payee. In one embodiment the transaction denied response can include the reason that the third party payment system did not complete the transaction. In one embodiment block may also comprise storing a record or log of the rejected transaction at the user account repository .

In one embodiment the payer account and the payee account may be associated with different third party payment systems. The third party payment system associated with the payer account can transfer money or credit to the third party payment system associated with the payee account. In one embodiment one or both of the third party payment systems can send confirmation of payment to the customer and the merchant .

In one embodiment the process can be used for processing a refund or payment adjustment. To process a refund or adjustment the customer is identified to the third party payment system as the payee and the retail store is identified as the payer. To facilitate record keeping and to reduce fraudulent transactions in one embodiment processing a refund or payment adjustment comprises receiving the identity of a previously completed transaction. The third party payment system can then compare the payment details received at block with the payment details stored at the user account repository during the initial payment transaction to determine if the refund or payment adjustment is associated with a valid completed transaction.

The process begins at block where for example the merchant transaction processor accesses a machine readable code associated with a completed transaction. The machine readable code can be provided on a piece of paper such as a receipt or by the mobile computing device . At block the merchant transaction processor identifies a transaction identifier associated with the completed transaction and the machine readable code.

The merchant transaction processor accesses transaction details associated with the completed transaction at block . In one embodiment the merchant transaction processor accesses the transaction details from the transaction repository using the transaction identifier. In one embodiment transaction details can be determined from the machine readable code.

In one embodiment the merchant transaction processor translates the transaction details into human readable form. The human readable transaction details can then be presented to one or more of the customer and the merchant to verify the transaction details.

At block the merchant transaction processor initiates a transaction adjustment or refund. Block can comprise identifying from the transaction details the third party payment system that performed the original transaction and contacting the third party payment system to perform the payment process described above with respect to using the original payer has the payee and the original payee as the payer.

At block the merchant transaction processor updates the transaction details stored on the transaction repository to indicate the refund or price adjustment. In one embodiment block comprises generating a new machine readable code with the updated transaction details and providing the new machine readable code to the mobile computing system . In one embodiment block is optional.

Generally the customer environment includes one or more products that need replacing or refilling on a regular or semi regular basis because for example the product is a limited use product or is capable of expiring. The product represents one such product and can include any product that can be refilled or resupplied by a product provider . For example the product can be a package of paper towels toothpaste milk a box of computer paper pharmaceuticals or pens. Further in some embodiments the product can include services that are purchased on a regular or semi regular basis. For example the product can include a carpet cleaning service a gardening service or a catering service. The product provider can include any type of retailer or service provider that can provide the product to the customer .

The product is associated with a machine readable code . The machine readable code is associated with product reorder details which can comprise any information that can facilitate reordering or restocking the product including information associated with the identity of the product the identity of the product provider and the identity of the customer . The product information associated with the identity of the product can comprise for example an identity of a product type e.g. batteries or soap the quantity of the product to reorder e.g. five boxes of four count razor blades the size or count of the product e.g. a three pack of tissues and the brand of the product to name a few. The identity of the product provider can comprise for example a website a physical location or a franchise identification to name a few. The identity of the customer can comprise for example an account identification a billing address or a shipping address to name a few.

In one embodiment the machine readable code is associated with a Uniform Resource Locator URL that is associated with a retailer website hosted by the retailer server . The URL can further be associated with the customer s account and the product .

It is generally preferred that the machine readable code is placed in a location that makes it easy for the customer to access the machine readable code using the mobile computing system . This location may differ based on the type of product or service and the customer . For example the machine readable code can be affixed as illustrated by either the product provider or the customer to packaging associated with the product or the last unit of the product e.g. the last ream of computer paper in a 12 count box of computer paper . As a second example the machine readable code may be affixed to a sticker a piece of paper an invoice or any other item separate from the product enabling the customer to place the machine readable code in a location of the customer s choice such as a kitchen cabinet or a desk drawer. In one embodiment the machine readable code is mailed to the customer . Alternatively the customer can print the machine readable code from for example a retailer website. In one embodiment the machine readable code can be a watermark. This watermark can be visible invisible or less visible than other markings on the product . One example of a watermark that can be incorporated in the machine readable code is the Digimarc from Digimarc Corporation of Beaverton Oreg.

When the customer decides that it is time to reorder the product the customer scans or accesses the machine readable code using the mobile computing system . The mobile computing system can comprise any type of mobile computing system such as the mobile computing system . The mobile computing system can include a machine readable code interface and a client transaction processor . The machine readable code interface can generally include any system capable of reading or scanning the machine readable code . In one embodiment the machine readable code interface can comprise the machine readable code interface .

The client transaction processor can comprise any system capable of initiating a reorder transaction associated with the product based on the machine readable code . In one embodiment the client transaction processor can translate the product reorder details associated with the machine readable code into a human readable form and cause the human readable product reorder details to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment the client transaction processor can comprise the client transaction processor .

Initiating the reorder transaction can comprise for example the mobile computing system communicating with a retailer website hosted by the retailer server via the network . The retailer server can comprise any computing system that enables the customer to place an order for the product with the product provider . In one embodiment the retailer server enables the customer to define a subscription for the product using subscription system . Defining the subscription can comprise the customer providing the product provider with product information and customer identity information such as billing shipping and account information. The subscription can then be stored in the customer subscription repository enabling the product provider to determine product reorder details not provided by the mobile computing system or to confirm product reorder details that were provided by the mobile computing system .

In one embodiment the subscription system is configured to automatically replenish the supply of the product . In one embodiment by accessing the machine readable code the customer can cause the product to be reordered prior to the time specified in the subscription for reordering the product . Accelerating when the product is reordered can be advantageous in cases when the supply of the product is exhausted sooner than anticipated.

The product provider also includes a retail entity . The retail entity can comprise any physical location associated with the product provider . For example the retail entity can be a brick and mortar store or a product warehouse. Once the customer completes the reorder transaction the product provider can cause the retail entity to ship the product from the retail entity to the customer environment via shipping provider .

The process begins at block where for example the client transaction processor accesses a machine readable code comprising product reorder details associated with the product . In one embodiment the client transaction processor translates the product reorder details into human readable code and causes the human readable product reorder details to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment the client transaction processor waits for confirmation from the customer before proceeding.

At block the client transaction processor initiates a transaction with for example the product provider based at least in part on the product reorder details. In one embodiment additional product reorder details are associated with the customer s account with the product provider . In one embodiment the transaction is based at least in part on the additional product reorder details. For example the machine readable code may comprise product reorder details that include the identity of the product and the identity of the customer s account. Continuing the example the additional product reorder details stored with the product provider may comprise billing and shipping information for the customer .

In one embodiment the client transaction processor can determine if the machine readable code has been accessed within a threshold period of time or a threshold number of times within a threshold period of time. If so the client transaction processor can reject an attempt to initiate a transaction with the product provider . Alternatively the client transaction processor can cause a warning or informational message to be presented to the customer associated with the satisfied or exceeded threshold. In one embodiment the client transaction processor can request confirmation of whether to initiate the transaction.

At block the client transaction processor receives a transaction status. The transaction status can indicate whether the transaction was confirmed rejected or requires further input e.g. a confirmation from the customer to complete the transaction. In one embodiment the transaction status may comprise an alternative product suggestion a suggested quantity change or a suggested brand change. In one embodiment the block is optional.

The transaction is finalized at block based at least in part on the transaction status. Finalizing the transaction may comprise receiving a confirmation from the customer to proceed with the transaction directing the product provider to complete the transaction or directing the product provider to modify the transaction based at least in part on the transaction status. In one embodiment block is optional.

In one embodiment accessing the machine readable code at block is sufficient to cause the product provider to ship the replacement or reordered product and or to complete the transaction without any further action or participation from the customer . Thus merely scanning the machine readable code can cause the purchase to take place thereby providing a convenient and fast reordering process for a user. In one embodiment the customer can modify or cancel the transaction after the client transaction processor accesses the machine readable code . For example the retailer may send an email with cancellation options to the user in response to the machine readable code being scanned. The cancellation options may include a time limit such as a day or the like for cancelling the order. Sending such an email can reduce the potential for accidental or fraudulent transactions from being completed.

In one embodiment process can be used to refill a pharmaceutical prescription. In one embodiment the client transaction processor can track consumption of the pharmaceutical and can cause a reminder to be provided to the customer when it is time to reorder the pharmaceutical. Advantageously the reminder can be provided in advance of the customer exhausting the pharmaceutical prescription thereby enabling the customer to refill or renew the prescription prior to exhausting the customer s current pharmaceutical supply. Further the client transaction processor can cause a reminder to be provided to the customer when it is time to take a dose of the prescription.

The process begins at block where for example the subscription system receives a transaction request from for example the client transaction processor associated with the customer . The transaction request is associated with a product reorder request. At block the subscription system identifies a user account associated with the transaction request. In one embodiment the user account is stored on the customer subscription repository .

The subscription system identifies a product associated with the transaction request at block . In one embodiment the transaction request identifies the product. Alternatively the product is identified from the user account.

At decision block the subscription system determines if the transaction request is valid. This can involve any predefined validity checks specified by the customer or by an administrator of the subscription system . In one embodiment determining if the transaction is valid can involve determining if the subscription system received a substantially similar or identical transaction request within a threshold period of time. If so the subscription system can ignore or reject the transaction request at block . Alternatively the subscription system can proceed with the transaction request and can optionally inform the customer of the potentially duplicate transaction request and request confirmation. Advantageously this temporal check can prevent the customer from accidentally placing a duplicate order. In one embodiment block is optional.

At decision block the subscription system determines if the identified product is a specific product or is associated with a group of products. This granularity determination can be based on any criteria that may be associated with one or more products such as product brand product type or product quantity to name a few. If the identified product is specific at decision block the subscription system determines if the product is available. Decision block can comprise determining if the product is currently available or if the product is anticipated to be available within a threshold period of time.

If it is determined at decision block that the identified product is not specific or if it is determined at decision block that the identified product is not available the subscription system identifies user purchase preferences based at least in part on one or more of the transaction request and the user account at block . The user purchase preferences can comprise any user specified criteria for identifying suggested products to fill a product reorder request. For example the user purchase preferences can be associated with price criteria quantity criteria customer review scores related purchases e.g. only suggest razor blades compatible with a previously purchased razor brand preferences country of origin preferences or current product availability to name a few. In one embodiment the subscription system can associate default preferences with the customer .

At block the subscription system can suggest one or more specific products to the customer based at least in part on the user preferences. In one embodiment suggesting one or more products can include presenting special offers to the customer . In one embodiment suggesting one or more products can include suggesting products that the customer previously ordered in place of the currently requested product. In one embodiment if the customer has specified dissatisfaction such as through a negative customer rating with a previously ordered product the subscription system can remove the previously ordered product from a list of potential products to suggest to the customer .

At block the subscription system receives a product selection. The selected product can be the suggested product or an alternative product identified by the customer . In one embodiment the customer can specify whether to update the customer s account to replace the product identified at block with the currently selected product for future product reorder requests.

The transaction is completed at block . Completing the transaction can comprise billing customer initiating shipment of the product to customer and generating a machine readable code to provide to the customer for future product reorder purchases. In one embodiment completing the transaction can comprise confirming with the customer whether to complete the order.

If it is determined at decision block that the identified product is available the subscription system determines at decision block if a special offer related to the product is available. If not the subscription system completes the transaction at block . If a special offer is available the subscription service can cause the special offer to be presented to the customer at block . The special offer can be based on any factor. For example the special offer can be based on user preferences past orders or current product stock to name a few. In one embodiment the special offer can be associated with an alternative product. For example if the product identified at block is a brand X battery the special offer could relate to a brand Y battery.

At decision block the subscription system determines if the customer selected the special offer. If not the subscription system completes the transaction at block based on the original transaction request. If the customer did select the special offer the subscription system modifies the transaction based on the special offer at block . At block the subscription system completes the transaction based on the modified transaction. In one embodiment if the special offer is associated with an alternative product selection the customer can specify whether to update the customer s account to replace the product identified at block with the currently selected product for future product reorder requests.

In one embodiment the subscription system can complete the transaction associated with the transaction request received at block without any further interaction with the customer . In one embodiment the subscription system can wait a predefined period of time before completing the transaction thereby giving the customer time to modify or cancel the requested transaction.

In one embodiment the transaction request comprises an identifier associated with predefined transaction details stored at the customer subscription repository . Upon receiving the identifier the subscription system can identity the predefined transaction details from the customer subscription repository and process the transaction without further interaction with the customer . Alternatively the subscription system can notify the customer of the pending transaction and wait for confirmation. In one embodiment the subscription system can complete the transaction after a threshold period of time if no confirmation is received from the customer .

In one embodiment the subscription system can provide one or more substitute products for the product identified at block . The identity of the one or more substitute products can be predefined or pre associated with the user account or the product. Alternatively the one or more substitute products can be determined at the time of shipping based on product availability.

The gift card can be any type of gift card that is provided in any manner to the recipient and that includes a machine readable code . For example the gift card can be provided to the recipient by mail email text message Facebook message or post or handed to the recipient . Further the gift card can be a physical card an electronic or digital card or a piece of paper printed by the recipient or any other party before it is provided to the recipient . Additionally the gift card can be associated with any product or service. For example the gift card can be associated with a book movie toy clothing credit at one or more retailers charity donation to one or more charity organizations salon or spa service or house painting service to name a few.

The machine readable code comprises transaction details associated with a predefined transaction e.g. a gift transaction . These transaction details can include any information that can facilitate the gift giver providing a gift to the recipient . Further the transaction details can include any information that facilitates the retail gift provider providing the gift to recipient on behalf of the gift giver . For example the transaction details can include the recipient s identity the gift giver s identity an address associated with the recipient an address associated with the gift giver the identity of the gift associated with the gift card restrictions if any on recipient modifying the gift giver s gift selection the identity of a third party receiving the gift in the recipient s name e.g. a charity receiving a monetary or gift donation in the recipient s name and any gift acceptance restrictions processes or guidelines e.g. gift must be accepted within one week gift selection must be confirmed or a book gift cannot be substituted with a video game gift to name a few.

The machine readable interface associated with the mobile computing system is generally capable of reading or scanning the machine readable code . Further the client transaction processor associated with the mobile computing system is generally capable of translating the transaction details into human readable form and causing the transaction details to be presented to the recipient . In addition the client transaction processor is generally capable of communicating with the retailer server via the network to facilitate completing the gift transaction between the gift giver and the recipient .

Using the mobile computing system the recipient can scan the machine readable code included with the gift card . In some embodiments scanning the machine readable code is sufficient to accept gift giver s gift. In some embodiments the recipient uses the mobile computing system to confirm acceptance of the gift with the retail gift provider or to confirm at least some of the transaction details associated with the machine readable code and or the gift card with the retail gift provider .

The retail gift provider can comprise any product or service provider that can complete the gift transaction between the gift giver and the recipient by providing the gift or service to the recipient . Further in some embodiments the retail gift provider creates and or provides the gift card to the recipient on behalf of the gift giver . The retail gift provider can include a retailer server a gift registration repository and a retail entity .

The retailer server can comprise any computing system that enables the gift giver to cause the retail gift provider to provide the recipient with the gift card . To facilitate this process the gift giver can provide at least some of the transaction details associated with the gift card to the retailer server . In one embodiment the retailer server hosts a website that enables the gift giver to interact with the retailer server . In one embodiment the retailer server can store on the gift registration repository transaction details associated with the gift card . The retailer server can then access the transaction details from the gift registration repository to confirm the predefined transaction to modify the predefined transaction or to determine if the predefined transaction has been accepted or completed.

In one embodiment the retailer server includes a gift redemption system . The gift redemption system can include any system for facilitating the recipient redeeming the gift associated with the gift card . In one embodiment the gift redemption system can be a distinct computing system from the retailer server .

In one embodiment when the recipient scans the machine readable code with the mobile computing system the mobile computing system interacts with the gift redemption system . The gift redemption system can cause the retail gift provider to provide the gift associated with the gift card to the recipient via for example shipping provider email or through a webpage which may or may not be hosted by the retailer server . In one embodiment the gift is provided to the recipient by the retail entity . The retail entity can comprise any physical location associated with the retail gift provider . For example the retail entity can be a brick and mortar store or a product warehouse. Once the recipient completes the predefined transaction e.g. accepts the gift the retail gift provider can cause the retail entity to ship the product associated with the gift card from the retail entity to the recipient environment via shipping provider .

In one embodiment the gift giver defines the gift transaction by using the computing system to access the retailer server . The gift giver can identify the product the recipient and any restrictions on the redemption or modification of the gift transaction by the recipient . In some embodiments the gift giver can use transaction details associated with previous transactions associated with the recipient and the retail gift provider to facilitate gift selection.

In one embodiment the recipient can accept a gift or complete a gift transaction without having an account with the retail gift provider .

The process begins at block where for example the client transaction processor accesses a machine readable code associated with a predefined transaction. Although not limited as such the predefined transaction can comprise a gift purchased by the gift giver for the recipient . In one embodiment the recipient scans the machine readable code with the machine readable code interface .

At block the client transaction processor causes transaction details associated with the predefined transaction to be presented to the recipient . The transaction details can be accessed from one or more of the machine readable code and the retail gift provider . Causing the transaction details to be presented to the recipient can comprise translating the transaction details into a human readable form and causing the human readable transaction details to be presented to the recipient . In one embodiment at least some of the transaction details are specified on the gift card enabling the recipient to read these transaction details without scanning the machine readable code . In one embodiment block is optional.

At decision block the client transaction processor determines if the recipient accepted the predefined transaction. In one embodiment to indicate acceptance the recipient could rescan the machine readable code or select a predefined transaction acceptance option on a Graphical User Interface GUI presented by the mobile computing system . In one embodiment accessing the machine readable code at block indicates acceptance of the predefined transaction. In one embodiment failure to rescan the machine readable code can indicate that the recipient did not accept the predefined transaction. In one embodiment identification of an alternative product or service can indicate that the recipient did not accept the predefined transaction. In one embodiment decision block can be performed by one or more systems associate with the retail gift provider .

If the recipient accepted the predefined transaction the client transaction processor finalizes the predefined transaction at block . In one embodiment finalizing the predefined transaction can comprise communicating the recipient s acceptance of the predefined transaction to the retail gift provider . In one embodiment finalizing the predefined transaction can comprise confirming shipping details such as the recipient s address. In one embodiment block can also comprise sending a thank you note card email or gift to the gift giver . In one embodiment finalizing the predefined transaction can comprise specifying alternate shipping information which may include an alternative shipping method and or shipping address.

In one embodiment if the recipient has an account associated with the retail gift provider the client transaction processor can cause the retail provider to associate at least some of the transaction details with the recipient s account by for example storing the transaction details on the gift registration repository . In one embodiment associating the transaction details with the recipient s account advantageously enables the recipient to review past gifts when deciding what to purchase for the gift giver during a future gift giving occasion. Further in some embodiments if a second gift giver not shown attempts to purchase the same gift for the recipient the retail gift provider can inform the second gift giver of this fact.

If the recipient did not accept the predefined transaction the client transaction processor can receive an alternative selection from the recipient at block . The alternative selection can include any proposed modification to the predefined transaction. For example the alternative selection can comprise a different product or service a change in recipient e.g. send the gift to a charity or identify a different charity to receive a donation a change in product color a change in product size a change in product version or refusal to accept the predefined transaction to name a few. Further the alternative selection can be the selection of cash or credit with the retail gift provider .

At block the client transaction processor provides the alternative selection to a transaction provider e.g. the retail gift provider associated with the predefined transaction. At decision block the client transaction processor determines if the alternative selection was accepted. This determination can be based on a response provided by the transaction provider. In one embodiment whether the alternative selection was accepted can be based on any factor. For example these factors can include the cost of the alternative selection compared to the predefined transaction a set of predefined limitations specified by the gift giver or the availability of the alternative selection to name a few. Further the set of predefined limitations can include any set of rules. For example the set of rules can include a monetary maximum a limit on alternative recipients e.g. the recipient can only choose certain charities and a limit on alternative selection product types e.g. no video games or no alcohol to name a few.

If it is determined that the alternative selection was accepted the client transaction provider finalizes the alternative transaction at block . Finalizing the alternative transaction can comprise confirming acceptance of the alternative transaction confirming an address associated with the recipient or if applicable an alternative recipient and sending a thank you note card email or gift to the gift giver . In one embodiment finalizing the alternative transaction can comprise specifying alternative shipping information such as an alternative shipping method and or shipping address.

The process begins at block where for example the gift redemption system receives a response from the recipient of a predefined transaction. In one embodiment the response is received from the client transaction processor in response to the machine readable code being scanned by the machine readable code interface . The predefined transaction can comprise a gift purchased by the gift giver for the recipient . At decision block the gift redemption system determines if the recipient accepted the predefined transaction. If so the gift redemption system finalizes the predefined transaction at block . Finalizing the predefined transaction can comprise confirming an address e.g. shipping address associated with the recipient . Further finalizing the predefined transaction can comprise storing acceptance of the predefined transaction and or transaction details associated with the predefined transaction at the gift registration repository . Storing the acceptance and or the transaction details facilitates providing product recommendations preventing duplicate acceptances of the predefined transaction and preventing duplicate gifts being sent to the recipient .

At block the gift redemption system updates the gift giver associated with the predefined transaction of the transaction status. This may comprise sending the gift giver an email a text message or updating a transaction status entry associated with the gift giver s account with the retail gift provider . Further the transaction status can specify any status information associated with the predefined transaction. For example the transaction status can indicate that the predefined transaction was completed successfully i.e. the recipient accepted and received the associated gift that the predefined transaction was modified that the predefined transaction was actively rejected i.e. the recipient indicated a desire to reject the predefined transaction or that the predefined transaction was passively rejected i.e. the recipient did not accept the predefined transaction within a threshold period of time to name a few. In one embodiment the block is optional.

If the gift redemption system determines at block that the response indicates that the recipient rejected the predefined transaction the gift redemption system determines if the recipient provided an alternative selection at decision block . The alternative selection as described with respect to block above can include any proposed modification to the predefined transaction. If the recipient did not provide an alternative selection the gift redemption system optionally performs block indicating that the predefined transaction was rejected.

If the recipient did provide an alternative selection the gift redemption system determines if the alternative selection is acceptable at determination block . The determination of whether the alternative selection is acceptable can be based on for example pre specified criteria defined by the gift giver the price of the product or service associated with the predefined transaction and the availability of the alternative selection e.g. in stock on reorder out of production etc. to name a few. The pre specified criteria can be associated with a price a recipient a product or service type or any other factor that can limit the alternative selection. In one embodiment the gift redemption system can pre filter the products presented to the gift recipient based on the pre specified criteria or any other factor relating to whether the alternative selection is acceptable. In some embodiments this pre filtering of presented products advantageously increases the probability that the alternative selection will be acceptable compared to a non filtered selection.

If the alternative selection is acceptable the gift redemption system finalizes the alternative transaction at block . Finalizing the alternative transaction can comprise substantially similar operations as described with respect to block but substituting the alternative selection for one or more of the product service or recipient associated with the predefined transaction. Further if the alternative selection is acceptable the gift redemption system updates the gift giver associated with the predefined transaction of the transaction status at block . In one embodiment block includes informing the gift giver of the alternative selection.

If the alternative selection is not acceptable the gift redemption system rejects the alternative selection at block . Rejecting the alternative selection can include informing the gift recipient that the alternative selection is not acceptable. Further informing the gift recipient that the alternative selection is not acceptable can include informing the gift recipient of why the alternative selection is not acceptable.

Like the machine readable code interface the machine readable code interface can include any system configured to read or scan a machine readable code.

The client transaction processor can include any system capable of communicating with the bank via network to obtain a machine readable code associated with an ATM command or ATM request. In one embodiment the client transaction processor can translate transaction details associated with the machine readable code into a human readable form and cause the human readable transaction details to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment the transaction details associated with the machine readable code are encrypted. In some embodiments for security purposes the client transaction processor is not capable of decrypting the transaction details. Alternatively in some embodiments for transaction verification purposes the client transaction processor is capable of decrypting the transaction details. In one embodiment the client transaction processor can comprise the client transaction processor and or the client transaction processor .

In one embodiment the transaction details associated with the machine readable code are encrypted. In some embodiments for security purposes the client transaction processor is not capable of decrypting the transaction details. Alternatively in some embodiments for transaction verification purposes the client transaction processor is capable of decrypting the transaction details. In one embodiment the client transaction processor can comprise the client transaction processor and or the client transaction processor .

In one embodiment the customer accesses the customer s account with the bank using the client transaction processor . The customer can specify an ATM transaction command or ATM transaction request associated with the customer s account to perform on the ATM . In response the client transaction processor receives from the bank a machine readable code associated with the ATM transaction request and the customer s account with the bank . The customer can then present to the ATM the machine readable code using the machine readable code interface .

The bank can generally include any type of organization that can hold money or credit for the customer or advance money or credit to the customer . Further the bank can be a brick and mortar based organization an Internet based organization or a combination.

The ATM can generally include any system for dispensing money associated with the customer s account with the bank to the customer . In some embodiments the ATM is capable of performing any authorized action associated with maintenance of the customer s account with the bank . For example the ATM may be capable of transferring money between accounts accepting a deposit e.g. cash or check into the customer s account providing a cash advance associated with a credit card performing a currency exchange or paying a bill to name a few. In some embodiments the ATM can include any type of vending machine configured to provide a product e.g. a train ticket an attraction ticket food a movie rental etc and to obtain payment by accessing the customer s account with the bank .

The ATM can include a machine readable code interface for reading machine readable codes and for presenting machine readable codes to the customer or the mobile computing system . Further the ATM can include a transaction repository . The transaction repository can include any repository for storing transaction details associated with an ATM transaction. In some embodiments the transaction repository can store images of machine readable codes.

Additionally the ATM can include a machine readable ATM identification code . This machine readable ATM identification code can be associated with one or more ATM details. These ATM details can include any information that can facilitate the customer using the ATM the bank generating an ATM specific machine readable code associated with an ATM transaction request or the bank authorizing completion of the ATM transaction request. For example the ATM details can include a location associated with the ATM a bank associated with the ATM an ATM network associated with the ATM and a status associated with the ATM to name a few. In one embodiment the machine readable ATM identification code is physically attached to the ATM such as on a sticker or via an etching on the ATM . Alternatively the ATM presents the machine readable ATM identification code to customers via the machine readable code interface .

In one embodiment the ATM accesses a machine readable code provided by the mobile computing system . This machine readable code is associated with ATM transaction information including an ATM transaction request and is generally generated by the bank . The ATM can verify a signature associated with the machine readable code. Additionally the ATM can identify at least the ATM transaction request and the bank . The ATM may also identify an account associated with the customer . Using this information the ATM can contact the bank to verify that the bank and the customer have authorized performance or execution of the ATM transaction request. In one embodiment the ATM may store the ATM transaction information in the transaction repository for record keeping purposes or for later account reconciliation. In one embodiment the ATM decrypts the ATM transaction information to determine the information associated with the machine readable code such as the ATM transaction request the identity of the bank and the customer s account name or number.

In one embodiment once the ATM has performed the ATM transaction request the ATM can provide the customer or the mobile computing system with a machine readable code associated with an ATM transaction receipt via the machine readable code interface . Alternatively the ATM can provide a traditional paper receipt.

In one embodiment the customer can present a money slip to the ATM . The money slip can represent any non electronic medium such as a piece of paper or card board that can include a machine readable code . The machine readable code can be associated with any pre defined cash transaction. By presenting the money slip to the ATM the customer can withdraw or deposit the amount of money associated with the machine readable code . Generally the money is withdrawn from an account associated with a different customer such as the customer or an organization. However the money could be withdrawn from an account associated with the customer . In one embodiment the machine readable code is not associated with any particular customer. Thus the customer can give the money slip to anyone as payment for a product or service or to cash or deposit on behalf of the customer . Further the customer can use the money slip to purchase any product or service from a retail store that is willing to accept the money slip in lieu of an alternative payment method.

In one embodiment the money slip can be electronic. The money slip can then be transferred between users such as between the customer and the customer via any electronic method such as email.

The process begins at block where for example the client transaction processor accesses a bank account associated with a customer . In one embodiment the bank account can be any type of account associated with a financial institution. For example the bank account can be a credit account with a credit card company a Certificate of Deposit account an Individual Retirement Account or any other type of account that enables the customer to withdraw and or deposit money. In one embodiment the bank account is accessed over the network via a website associated with the bank .

In one embodiment accessing the bank account can comprise any number or type of authentication measures. For example these authentication measures can comprise requiring a user name and password or a biometric authentication. Further accessing the bank account may comprise any type of security or encryption measures such as the use of transparent client side cryptography techniques. Examples of transparent client side cryptography that can be used herein are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 981 247 filed Dec. 29 2010 titled Transparent Client Side Cryptography for Network Applications the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

At block the client transaction processor accesses a machine readable ATM identification code associated with the ATM to determine an ATM identification. The machine readable ATM identification code can comprise any type of machine readable code. Accessing the machine readable ATM identification code can comprise scanning the machine readable ATM identification code using the machine readable code interface . Further accessing the machine readable ATM identification code can comprise translating the machine readable ATM identification code into a human readable form and presenting the human readable form to the customer and or translating the machine readable ATM identification code into an optimal format to facilitate providing the machine readable ATM identification code to the bank . In one embodiment block is optional.

At block the client transaction processor receives an ATM transaction request from the customer . This ATM transaction request can comprise any type of command that can be performed by the ATM . For example the ATM transaction request can be a money withdrawal request a deposit check request a deposit payment instrument request or a deposit cash request to name a few. Further receiving the ATM transaction request can include receiving any ATM transaction request details that can facilitate performing the ATM transaction request. For example these details can include the identity of one or more accounts or a monetary amount.

At block the client transaction processor can provide the ATM transaction request and any ATM transaction request details and the ATM identification to the bank . In one embodiment providing the ATM identification to the bank is optional.

At block the client transaction processor receives a machine readable ATM transaction code associated with the ATM transaction request the ATM and a bank account associated with the customer . The machine readable ATM transaction code can comprise any type of machine readable code. In one embodiment the machine readable ATM transaction code is associated with the ATM transaction request and the bank account associated with the customer but is not associated with any particular ATM.

In one embodiment the machine readable ATM transaction code and or information associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code may be signed and or encrypted by the bank . In one embodiment the machine readable ATM transaction code may be associated with an authorization code provided by the bank . This authorization code can be associated with one or more of the ATM transaction request the bank account and the bank . In one embodiment the client transaction processor receives the authorization code in place of the machine readable ATM transaction code. In response to receiving the authorization code the client transaction processor generates the machine readable ATM transaction code.

In one embodiment the machine readable ATM transaction code may be associated with an expiration value such as a time value. In some embodiments if the expiration value has been satisfied the machine readable ATM transaction code may no longer be valid i.e. the ATM may no longer perform the ATM transaction request associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code .

In one embodiment the bank can cause any potential fees associated with the ATM transaction or performing the ATM transaction at the ATM to be presented to the customer . If the customer indicates a desire to proceed the bank can then provide the machine readable ATM transaction code to the client transaction processor at block .

At block the client transaction processor can provide the machine readable ATM transaction code to the ATM which enables the ATM to process the ATM transaction request associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code. Processing the ATM transaction request from the ATM s perspective is described further with respect to .

In one embodiment the ATM transaction request can include a request to create a money slip . In response to providing the machine readable ATM transaction code to the ATM at block the customer can obtain a money slip created by the ATM .

The process begins at block where for example the ATM provides a machine readable ATM identification code to one or more of the customer or the mobile computing system . In one embodiment block is optional and the process begins at block . At block the ATM accesses a machine readable ATM transaction code. This machine readable ATM transaction code is associated with an ATM transaction request. In one embodiment the machine readable ATM transaction code is also associated with one or more of a bank and an account associated with the customer and the bank . In one embodiment accessing the machine readable ATM transaction code can include decrypting the machine readable ATM transaction code and or information associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code.

At block the ATM identifies the bank associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code. At block the ATM verifies a signature associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code. Verifying the signature can comprise one or more of verifying that the signature has not been tampered with verifying that the signature is associated with a trusted party and verifying that the signature is associated with the bank .

At block the ATM verifies the transaction request associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code with the bank . In one embodiment verifying the transaction request can comprise verifying that the bank authorized the transaction request and or generated the machine readable ATM transaction code. In one embodiment verifying the transaction request can comprise verifying that an expiration value associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code has not been satisfied. In one embodiment the ATM can verify that an expiration value associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code has not been satisfied without communicating with the bank . In one embodiment verifying the transaction request can include verifying a signature associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code. In one embodiment verifying the transaction request can include decrypting transaction data or information associate with the machine readable ATM transaction code. In one embodiment block may be performed at substantially the same time e.g. within a matter of seconds or less as block . Alternatively block may be performed at a substantially later time than block e.g. minutes hours or days later . Advantageously in embodiments where block is performed at a substantially later time the process can be implemented by ATMs that may at least temporarily lack a network connection such as an ATM temporarily installed at a state fair or an ATM on a cruise ship. In one embodiment block is optional.

At decision block the ATM determines whether each verification process associated with blocks and was successful. If so the ATM performs the ATM transaction request associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code at block . Performing the ATM transaction request can include dispensing cash to the customer or receiving cash or a check from the customer . In one embodiment performing the ATM transaction request can include accepting a money slip from the customer or dispensing a money slip to the customer . In one embodiment performing the ATM transaction request can include recording on the transaction repository one or more transaction details associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code and or ATM transaction request. In some embodiments recording the transaction details enables block to be performed at an alternative time. Further in some embodiments recording the transaction details enables the bank to reconcile one or more ATM transactions at a predetermined time.

In one embodiment the ATM transaction request may be limited by one or more of the ATM and the bank . For example the ATM transaction request may be limited to cash withdrawals of a predefined amount per customer or per account over a predefined period of time per withdrawal or per customer associated with a particular bank. Advantageously in some embodiments if network connectivity is limited or non existent the customer can withdraw at least a predefined amount of money from the ATM without the ATM confirming the ATM transaction request with the bank . Thus for example if the ATM were located at a temporary event the ATM could process certain transactions offline without network access.

If the ATM determines that one or more verification process was not successful the ATM rejects the ATM transaction request at block . In one embodiment rejecting the ATM transaction request can comprise informing the customer the bank or both that the ATM transaction request was rejected and optionally the reason why the ATM transaction request was rejected. In one embodiment rejecting the ATM transaction request can include recording on the transaction repository one or more transaction details associated with the machine readable ATM transaction code and or ATM transaction request and why the ATM transaction request was rejected.

In some embodiments process can be used to process a money slip . The following describes several such example embodiments of using the process to process the money slip . Although these examples are described with respect to the ATM any system that can facilitate a retail transaction can perform the process to process the money slip . For example the point of sale system can process the money slip using the process .

The process begins at block when for example the ATM accesses a machine readable code associated with the money slip from a customer . The machine readable code includes a monetary value. In one embodiment there is no limit to the monetary value or currency. For example the monetary value could be 17.76 or 18.12. In other embodiments the monetary value may be limited by a maximum or minimum value. In some embodiments the monetary value may be limited to one or more multiples of one or more predefined values e.g. the monetary value must be divisible by twenty or by ten and twenty . In one embodiment the ATM may be capable of accepting money slips associated with specific values. For example if the ATM only dispenses twenty dollar bills the ATM may not be able to process a money slip associated with seventy five dollars.

At block the ATM identifies a bank associated with the machine readable code . At block the ATM verifies a signature associated with the machine readable code . Verifying the signature comprises verifying that the bank signed the money slip . The ATM verifies with the bank at block that the bank generated and or authorized the money slip and or the machine readable code .

At decision block the ATM determines whether the verification processes associated with the blocks and were successful. If so the ATM can cash the money slip or deposit the money slip into an account identified by the customer . Depositing the money slip can comprise depositing the monetary value associated with the money slip . If one or more verification processes was not successful the ATM will not cash or deposit the money slip .

In one embodiment the money slip can be generated by a third party such as the customer or the retail store . In one embodiment generating the money slip comprises communicating with the bank a request to allocate funds from an account for the money slip . If the funds exist the bank can generate a machine readable code to be included with the money slip .

The mobile computing system is shown communicating with a token based authentication system . In certain embodiments the token based authentication system can encode a network authentication token that can be used by the user optionally in conjunction with a PIN to authenticate to websites local applications devices and network accessible applications. In the depicted embodiment tokens generated by the authentication system can be used to access computing systems examples of which are described below.

The token based authentication system includes an authentication module and a machine readable code generator . The authentication module can implement a token based authentication technology such as Kerberos or the like. Kerberos and other authentication technologies issue time limited authentication tickets or tokens that enable users to obtain access to multiple applications and devices. The machine readable code generator can generate a machine readable code for each token generated by the authentication module . A token store or data repository in communication with the authentication system can store the tokens and or machine readable codes.

The authentication system can therefore enable the user to access multiple different computing systems or applications without having to enter security credentials e.g. username and password for each application or device. In one embodiment the user enters his or her credentials in the mobile computing system using the authentication client . The user can then use the authentication client to connect to the token based authentication system e.g. over a network . The authentication module of the authentication system can validate the user s credentials and generate a security token. The machine readable code generator can encode this token into a machine readable code and output the machine readable code for the mobile computing system to scan with the machine readable code interface . The machine readable code generator can transmit the code to the mobile computing system in a variety of other ways such as email text via a web page or the like.

Using the machine readable code the mobile computing system can access computing systems and or applications that are token authentication enabled. For example the user can present the machine readable code received from the authentication system to a machine readable code interface on a computing system . An authentication client of the computing system can transmit the machine readable code or a decoded version thereof to the authentication system . The authentication system can check the code against its token store to determine whether the code corresponds to a valid token. If a valid token exists for the user to access the computing system the authentication system can send a communication to the authentication client of the computing system indicating that the user is authorized.

One specific use case for the network authentication environment is in a warehouse setting where workers are highly mobile and are interacting with network accessible applications such as inventory stowing and picking applications. A worker e.g. user could at the beginning of shift authenticate using traditional authentication means username and password RSA token or otherwise . Upon successful authentication the user receives an authentication token from the authentication system . This token could be provided to the user s mobile computing system . Alternatively this token could be printed as a machine readable code whereupon the employee could affix the machine readable code to his or her badge. Later and for the duration of the shift for example the employee could use this machine readable code by scanning it with a fixed or mobile device such as the computing systems . The authentication client could include web browser software capable of processing the security token for example to authenticate to web sites configured to accept such tokens. The token could expire N hours minutes or days after creation such that a token generated for use one day would be invalid on subsequent days.

Similar use cases apply in other non warehouse settings for example any employee interacting with multiple networked devices may find this mechanism easier to use than for example entering a password on a mobile device. In the healthcare industry for example doctors and nurses are highly mobile but networked healthcare applications are extremely cautious to require authentication at each interaction. The network authentication environment shown can be implemented in a hospital or other care setting to enable authentication to multiple devices while reducing the burden on employees.

In the above examples this authentication mechanism could also be used to enforce a stronger authentication mechanism biometric Q A human interaction on a periodic e.g. daily basis without requiring ubiquitous deployment of such authentication. For instance the user could supply biometric credentials to the authentication system which could create a token and issue a corresponding machine readable code printed or supplied to the mobile computing system . The authentication process used by the authentication could also be reversed for example the authentication system could provide a machine readable code for each token generated to the computing systems . A user wishing to authenticate to a computing system could scan the machine readable code displayed by the computing system and send the code to the authentication system which could validate the user and send a message regarding this validation to the computing system .

Further in some embodiments the token can be time limited and the expiration time can be encoded in the machine readable code. In addition a second factor or more than two factors of authentication can be used to enhance security. For example the authentication system could enable a second authentication factor such as a personal identification number PIN or password to be defined for a user. When the user scans the machine readable code containing the token into the computing system the authentication client of the computing system could output a user interface that requests a PIN or other password of the user. Upon inputting the user s PIN or password or other authentication factor the authentication module could submit the PIN password and the machine readable code or security token embedded therein to the authentication system for authentication. This two factor authentication scheme can allow users to have an authentication mechanism such as a PIN which may change infrequently as well as a second authentication mechanism the security token that can change more frequently such as daily. Thus for instance a user in a high security facility who has a PIN may also be assigned a new machine readable code each day he or she reports to work.

Moreover in some embodiments the computing systems can perform offline authentication or validation e.g. without accessing the authentication server . In such embodiments the machine readable code can include an encrypted security token. The security token may further be signed with a private key used by the authentication server . Upon scanning the machine readable code a computing system can decrypt the security token and check the signature using for example a public key corresponding to the private key used by the authentication system to sign the security token. If the computing system determines that the signature is valid the computing system can provide the user with access the computing system . Thus the computing system need not communicate with the authentication server in some embodiments.

A number of computing systems have been described throughout this disclosure. The descriptions of these systems are not intended to limit the teachings or applicability of this disclosure. For example the mobile computing systems described herein can generally include any mobile computing device s such as smart phones PDAs tablets or the like. Further it is possible for the mobile computing systems described herein to be different types of devices to include different applications or to otherwise be configured differently. In addition the mobile computing systems described herein can include any type of operating system OS . For example the mobile computing systems described herein can implement an Android OS a Windows OS a Mace OS a Linux or Unix based OS or the like.

Further the processing of the various components of the illustrated systems can be distributed across multiple machines networks and other computing resources. In addition two or more components of a system can be combined into fewer components. Further various components of the illustrated systems can be implemented in one or more virtual machines rather than in dedicated computer hardware systems. Likewise the data repositories shown can represent physical and or logical data storage including for example storage area networks or other distributed storage systems. Moreover in some embodiments the connections between the components shown represent possible paths of data flow rather than actual connections between hardware. While some examples of possible connections are shown any of the subset of the components shown can communicate with any other subset of components in various implementations.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out all together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

Each of the various illustrated systems may be implemented as a computing system that is programmed or configured to perform the various functions described herein. The computing system may include multiple distinct computers or computing devices e.g. physical servers workstations storage arrays etc. that communicate and interoperate over a network to perform the described functions. Each such computing device typically includes a processor or multiple processors that executes program instructions or modules stored in a memory or other non transitory computer readable storage medium. The various functions disclosed herein may be embodied in such program instructions although some or all of the disclosed functions may alternatively be implemented in application specific circuitry e.g. ASICs or FPGAs of the computer system. Where the computing system includes multiple computing devices these devices may but need not be co located. The results of the disclosed methods and tasks may be persistently stored by transforming physical storage devices such as solid state memory chips and or magnetic disks into a different state. Each service described such as those shown in may be implemented by one or more computing devices such as one or more physical servers programmed with associated server code.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

