---

title: Bridgewire shunt setback switch
abstract: A setback switch device is provided which, upon launch, can arm an explosive or pyrotechnic device for military gun launched applications. An included bridgewire shunt feature can also prevent the unintended arming, or accidental arming by a stray voltage before any launch is undertaken, of such explosive or pyrotechnic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09528809&OS=09528809&RS=09528809
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09528809
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150901
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The initiation of explosive and pyrotechnic devices for military gun launch applications require the use of a device that will prevent unintended functioning of the initiating element until conditions are safe to do so. Existing solutions for this type of application are complex bulky and expensive for ballistic applications that do not require a traditional safe and arm device when explosive devices are not being initiated. Rocket motors or propelling charges are examples of such applications. In these cases a low cost and inherently robust device is preferred such that the device cannot unintentionally react during handling or the erroneous operation of electronic circuits designed to function the energetic elements.

The old ways of solving the problem are well known and include conventional safe and arm devices. These devices are bulky and expensive. Alternatively the design may not provide a safety feature at all since the safety requirements for non explosive elements may be lax poorly understood or undefined. This increases the potential of inadvertently initiating the device under certain circumstances. Such was the case when a Navy rocket motor was accidentally initiated on the USS Forrestal in 1967 with disastrous results.

The invention described herein is manufactured using simple methods and provides an electrically conductive normally closed circuit that is wired in parallel with the bridgewire. The proposed device has far less of an electrical resistance that than of the attached bridgewire and therefore diverts the majority of any electric current through the shunt in the event of an unintentional initiation. During a setback type event the shunt device destructively breaks which in effect removes the shunt portion of the circuit for the main circuit which then allows the full electrical current to be diverted to the bridgewire circuit for full current initiation of the bridgewire.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention is to provide a setback switch device which upon launch can arm an explosive or pyrotechnic device for military gun launched applications.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a bridgewire shunt means which can prevent the unintended arming before any launch is undertaken of an explosive or pyrotechnic device in military gun launched applications.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a bridgewire shunt means which can prevent the accidental arming by a stray voltage of an explosive or pyrotechnic device.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

As might be seen in particularly in explosive and or pyrotechnic devices for military gun launched applications of this invention when a bridgewire is activated by voltage the munition will become armed. It is imperative that bridgewire not become activated until intended such as at launch inadvertently or accidentally for that would be an extreme danger. Therefore as a protection against that the bridgewire is permanently shorted by a shunt wire see for example as may be seen also as element in e.g. Thus the bridgewire can never be activated unless shunt wire is somehow removed or broken . This can only happen hopefully upon an intended launch through use of the safety device of this invention. Then without shunt wire interfering a current will flow through bridgewire from voltage source down to ground and the munition will become armed. In a physical embodiment of the switch according to the invention the bridgewire shunt setback switch device of includes a housing ball mass and shunt wire . The housing is comprised of but not limited to a non conductive material which may be manufactured from a plastic material. The housing provides a means of containing all elements together in a non electrically conductive environment. Housing also provides a bottom surface feature housing base for which to mount the device on a flat surface such as that of a circuit board and a defined inside upper area . The housing may be made of a magnetic material or be magnetic.

The ball mass shown in this device is constructed of but not limited to a non conductive element that will provide the necessary axial force under acceleration force to directly apply a bias force against shunt wire suspension and cause it to break when a particular ultimate tensile force is achieved. The ball mass is a movable element that is able to translate axially in housing along housing bore . The ball mass may be made of plastic or it may be of a magnetic material or be nonmagnetic. Shunt wire is an electrically conductive element that is held in suspension in housing via two through holes wire port . The shunt wire may be a straight piece of wire that has essentially zero electrical resistance. The shunt wire may have a nonelectrically conductive outer coating. Wire port on both sides of housing permit the wire to span thru housing and provide a fixed height for the shunt wire to be supported on either side of housing and provide axial restraint for ball mass while at rest. The housing wire ports may be such that both holes are positioned at the same height above the bottom area and may be approximately 180 degrees apart if looking at a horizontal cross section of such housing. The ball mass is intimately situated against shunt wire as shown explicitly as shunt wire suspension to provide a nest like captive assembly to prevent excessive axial movement of ball mass along housing bore . Ball mass is also constrained from radial movement by the sides of housing bore . The ball mass may take a number of shapes so long as it can be suspended by the shunt wire only.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

