---

title: Bi-directional adaptive drug dispenser for managing divergence between pre-set regimen and actual performance
abstract: A medication dispenser for coordinating the treatment plan and treatment regimen for a medication (what medication(s), what dosage(s), what time(s), what interval(s)), that presumes errors, emergencies, and changes will happen and must be handled; and so rather than seeking perfect compliance at every level of provisioning, handling, and taking of the medication, examines and as possible corrects and then records as correct or deviating, actual use, and so tracks the experienced regimen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09345645&OS=09345645&RS=09345645
owner: 
number: 09345645
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150407
---
In the 20century medication principally addressed illness which was incident i.e. relating to an injury an infection or an infestation and the best health results came from public health efforts safe water personal hygiene vaccinations . Across the globe the average lifespan surged upwards in some places at more than a year s gain for each year of progress. These now are seen as easy victories over the most broadly shared killer ills for in the 21century people remain mortal and health care s share of our national GNP has more than doubled.

This century starts with an estimate that in the United States alone 133 million people suffer from at least one chronic illness and the reality that chronic illnesses lead to approximately seven out of every ten deaths in the United States each year. Medications often prescribed to alleviate and treat these chronic illnesses fail principally because current levels of adherence to medication regimens are at or below 50 . Patients even those with access to preventative or palliative medications are not properly treating their chronic diseases this century s major killers.

Taking medication sounds simple in theory. As with most of life reality presents a host of complications. For all that there are standard and approved regimens reality includes transient temporary interruptions context specific deviations emergency changes and always purely human but reality based differences between the theoretical standard ideal and the pragmatic real time and real world experience s . For and as part of each specific prescribed regimen each human being experiences and causes divergences between his or her planned or prescribed dosage and the reality of what doses and when he or she actually takes.

A patient may have difficulty remembering to take his medicine at the recommended time s . Or a patient may have difficulty remembering that she has already taken a dose. Some patients have difficulty remembering the recommended dose of medicine especially if that dose requires more than one unit pill of the same medicine. The reality is even more convoluted for any multiple drug regimen and one mistake may pose grave consequences to the patient. These problems both especially true and may compound for patients like elderly disabled and cognitively impaired individuals or patients with psychiatric disorders with inadequate skills or knowledge to follow a medicine regimen and those facing a language barrier. An increasing segment of the population joins those most vulnerable as their regimens individually comprise multiple medicines each with a different schedule and instructions.

As eyesight fades with age reading labels of medicine containers can present a problem. Even young alert patients can be overwhelmed by life work family and other responsibilities and forget to take their medicines. This is especially apparent with temporary treatments e.g. antibiotics when the medicine is taken for a period of time too short to generate a routine.

Then add to all of the above rapid changes in the selection of formulary and thus features of the actual pills packaging errors and intentional or inadvertent switching of medications amongst containers that lead to divergences between what is thought to be in a container and what is actually dispersed at the time of use. The end result is too often that the amount of medicine actually taken is too low to affect the treatment or so high as to cause an overdose or that the wrong medication entirely is taken.

Patient compliance with medication dosing schedules is a serious problem. Approximately 60 of prescribed medication is not taken as directed. Non compliance leads to worsening illness hospitalization irreversible loss of function and death resulting in tremendous human and financial costs. When medicines are dispensed especially outside hospitals errors in selection of the correct pill and the appropriate dose add further morbidity and mortality.

For example elderly patients and patients taking multiple medications at different dosing schedules may have difficulty remembering to take their medications at the scheduled times. Approximately 90 of elderly patients make medication errors 35 of which are serious. Approximately 40 of all hospital admissions among elderly patients are due to medication problems.

The gold standard remains supervised administration of each dose of each medication and of the integrated medical regimen by a highly educated professional doctor nurse pharmacist or other medical specialist but for most situations this is costly overkill. Even though medical professionals on average do worse than the medial performance attainable with automatic support systems whether such be as simple as a checklist Atul Gawande or as complex as an advanced medical robot Intuitive Surgical s da Vinci machines .

The current state of the art has many methods and systems seeking to effect proper medication by individuals because such actions are important sometimes literally vital in preventing sickness complications and even death. Many machines and methods have been proscribed prescribed and even patented in this field.

Giving instructions and then letting patients fend for themselves has been shown not to work particularly well. For improper taking of medicines only is not the greatest medical danger. Rather it is any unsensed or untracked divergence between medical presumption and real time performance which gives rise to improper feedback which then leads to the physician concluding that it is the medicine and not the actual regimen that is failing which then causes the physician to change the wrong factor dose timing or even choice of drug in a mistaken effort that fixes the wrong problem. These divergences can be frustrating to both patient and physician detrimental to the experienced care for the chronic illness and increase costs for no gain yet be simply and readily correctible or handleable within an existing treatment regimen when truthfully managed.

A number of systems and devices already exist that provide instructions alarms or assistance to a user regarding when to take at least one medication and or to record its having been taken. These include ordinary pen paper Post It notes and refrigerator front reminder magnets. All incorporate one fundamental defect they presume a perfect linear progression from alert to event and thus diverge from reality whenever the user s actual behavior does not match the preconceived and pre set process. Prior inventors defined their goal as trying to meet The need for a device that will automatically dispense the proper pill s in the proper amount s at the proper time s each day and alert the user of the devise to take the dispensed pills . . . . U.S. Pat. No. 8 068 931 Systems and Methods for Monitoring Pill Taking Tran A. A. A. et al. issued Nov. 29 2011 Col. 1 lines 18 21 .

Thus the prior art is rife with simplifying perfectionist and unrealistic presumptions. Most share that of U.S. Pat. No. 5 915 558 Portable Pill Box With Alarm Girvetz. N. issued Jun. 29 1999 which is substantially as its title describes. This invention presumptively links opening the access door to the storage area with correctly taking the content s therein If the pills are accessed door 40 is opened and or a vial is removed then the acknowledge signal will indicate that the contents of the pill box have been accessed in response to the alarm signal. Col. 5 lines 51 54 The contents number of units pills taken and even presence of the vial are all presumed correct and access is presumed to be flawlessly linked to ingestion.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 604 650 Bottle Cap Medication Reminder And Overdose Safeguard Sagar R. B. issued Aug. 12 2003 also presumptively links opening the cap with taking the content s therein The cap would use the time it was last removed as detected by the sensor as the datum for the Time since last dose. Col. 4 lines 64 65 

U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 663 System and Method for Loading Pills Into A Pillbox Pocsi J. P. issued Aug. 24 2004 is aimed at the pharmacist and or her assistant or the persons providing the medication rather than those taking it or more specifically at the steps of preparing a medicine dispenser for future use rather than at the point and time of use for specific and particular dose s . This invention s core latticework pattern of rows and columns Col. 3 lines 18 19 and loader form Col. 12 line 8 are not any part of the present invention.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 081 807 Automatic Pill Reminder Bottles Lai J. issued Jul. 25 2006 concedes that it is merely a reminder device to remind user to take pill regularly sic Col. 1 lines 46 47 . As with Sagar U.S. Pat. No. 6 604 650 it links the opening and closing of the bottle to the presumptive taking of the correct dose.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 269 476 Smart Medicine Container Ratnakar Nitesh issued Sep. 11 2007 presumptively links dispensation of the medication with its being correctly taken and further depends on the correct bulk medication being loaded into the container in the first place Col. 15 line 21 and not broken or disturbed before or upon dispensation. As with the preceding patents The time of opening of the outlet door 22 is recorded as consumption time by the sensor 23 . . . . Col. 10 lines 27 38 This patent is advanced over the earlier ones for it contains a sensor in the dispensation channel to count each pill that is dispensed Col. 14 line 58 and a second sensor in the outlet transition Col. 15 lines 1 4 thus it does not presume that the right number have been removed when the timer is activated and the door opened.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 395 214 Apparatus Device and Method for Prescribing Administering and Monitoring a Treatment Regimen For a Patient Shillingburg C. issued Jul. 1 2008 describes such a device and approach eminently well its system and device provides instruction to a patient regarding the medications to be taken. Furthermore the system supposedly may determine whether a specific prescription is appropriate given the patient s conditions and other medications he or she may already be taking. That system also supposedly may monitor compliance of the patient with such a regimen through its dispensing of medicine in accordance with a predetermined treatment protocol. While that system offers improvements over prescribe and pray approach it presumes perfection in use and operation for that system provides no mechanism for actually confirming that a patient is in fact ingesting or otherwise properly administering required medication which it presumptively links to the dispenser being opened. As itself states 

That invention may be sufficient for one who is in full possession of their mental faculties but not help any individual who may have difficulty following directions or one who is actively avoiding medication either may still not be taking required medication after it is dispensed. Furthermore it requires preloading of various medications into a dispenser and has no function to check whether the medication which is actually dispensed is that which is intended so if there is any error in the loading this invention has no way to detect and thus correct it at the time a dose is dispensed. While this patent does suggest that each of the chambers 370 may be uniquely configured based on the size and configuration of a given medication to filter pills through the device and into the patient accessible chamber 378 Col. 19 lines 63 66 or an alternative having customized sleeves that are inserted into the chambers Col. 19 line 1 FIG. 3H 3I even if an administering manager regularly visits to ensure appropriate medications are loaded it is surely possible that an inexperienced or momentarily inattentive loader may place incorrect medications into the device or chamber or may somehow provide incorrect dosages into the device. It has no test for mis loaded and thus mis dispensed medications. It uses as a medication transferring device a slide tray 380 Col. 19 lines 4 5 .

Finally not only does this invention s description openly state its presumption that each time a pill is taken out it is a at the time correctly being removed and b taken it lacks any check on whether the count of pills taken out was correct or means to either replace the pill or to account for it not being taken and thus any ability to reverse the presumption of perfect compliance based on reality experienced by the user .

U.S. Pat. No. 7 359 765 Electronic Pill Dispenser Varvarelis N. M. et al. issued Apr. 15 2008 also depends on the correct medication being loaded in the first place into its . . . receptacle for storing and dispensing any size of pill P . . . Col. 4 line 34 . It as with the cited prior art fails to check whether what is being dispensed is a pill P or a pea or a stone or a pill not P.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 877 268 Intelligent Pill Box Kulkarni A. U. issued Jan. 25 2011 links removal of an individual pill container with the taking of the correct dosage of that medication though with flawed English from a pro se applicant 

Although this patent s specification asserts that the device weighs the contents of the pill box Col. 6 lines 13 18 examination of the claims and perusal of the image file wrapper disclose this aspect was not asserted during the prosecution of the patent and further disclose that the examiner s allowance was predicated solely on the timing intervals relating to the removal and replacement of the pillbox within the device as part of its Dispensing Scheme Col. 6 line 55 Col. 7 line 13 . The specification fails to provide any operative instruction sufficient to meet a 35 U.S.C. 112 enablement requirement as to how the device effects this functionality.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 896 192 Patient Controlled Timed Medication Dispenser Conley N. S. et al. issued Mar. 1 2011 addressed the need for medication which may not be delivered at a pre fixed schedule but instead may have a first dose delivered at a time of the patient s selection yet which prohibits access to a further dose until a minimum time interval has elapsed. The device also controls access through an authentication operation and stores a record of its operation. The invention presumes that presentation of the medication in an open container is equated with the patient taking the medication even though it limits the presentation time preferentially to less than half a minute. Col. 11 lines 27 30 The passage of time alone not whether any medication is removed is used to establish that a dose was taken. Col. 11 lines 30 35 This lack of feedback means that half of the potential dose carrying sites are empty. Col. 11 lines 49 51 Col. 12 lines 10 12 65 67 Should the patient not meet the window of opportunity and take the dose when presented the invention presumes that all of the minimum necessary interval must first pass if . . . the dose is not removed from the retention area except that the patient can request a dose from the attendant . Col. 14 lines 25 27 lines 27 28 The literal blindness of this patent to alternative approaches can be seen in its provision for a sensor Col. 15 line 25 that is only used to determine whether a medication area is properly aligned Col. 15 lines 31 34 and not whether any medication is in the medication area. Later however while it describes a dose presence detector 757 Col. 19 line 39 this is its only mention no use or connection exists elsewhere in the Specification. This detector only functions to detect removal not the presence or introduction of a dose Col. 19 lines 50 52 and is not mentioned in any of the claims.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 907 477 Bottle Cap Medication Timer Puzia Scott issued Mar. 15 2011 comprises solely a disposable electronic timer Abstract line 1 which has timer setting and control buttons only.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 993 055 Method and Apparatus for Alerting A Person At Medicine Dosing Times Nurse C. L. et al. issued Aug. 9 2011 chiefly differs from U.S. Pat. No. 7 907 477 by not being on the cap secondarily by excluding any visual display thirdly by allowing for creep time and shares the presumptions that 1 opening the dispenser switch is equivalent to the dosage being properly taken . . . activating a switch when an annunciator is activated causes the dosing schedule to advance to the next dosing interval Col. 3 lines 42 44 FIG. 5B and 2 only the proper medication is in the container A method . . . comprises the steps of dispensing medicine into a container . . . . Col. 3 lines 60 61 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 060 249 Medication Dispenser With Integrated Monitoring System Bear D. M. et al. issued Nov. 15 2011 requires all of a plurality of storage compartments Col. 1 lines 49 50 an image capturing device that sees into each storage compartment Col. 1 lines 52 54 FIG. 2 and a separate and remote central monitoring system to which the device transmits its images Col. 1 line 56 FIG. 4 Col. 15 lines 26 29 Col. 16 lines 18 20 . This invention depends on ensuring compliance through live albeit remote observation by human monitors Col. 5 lines 6 8 Col. 7 lines 19 25 Col. 9 lines 14 17 Col. 13 lines 19 22 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 068 931 Systems and Methods for Monitoring Pill Taking Tran A. A. A. et al. issued Nov. 29 2011 also presumptively links the opening of a compartment with the medication s within being taken. Col. 6 lines 39 46 FIGS. 5 6 The leaps of presumption go further as the inventors assert that if taken around normal lunch time when the medication should have been taken on an empty stomach the system provides a warning and reports the event Col. 2 lines 54 56 and initially assume that multiple compartment openings during one medication dispensing event leads to a mistaken taking instead of checking whether the user merely inadvertently opened the wrong compartment without removing anything Col. 3 lines 17 19 . Even for the further embodiment when the weight is directly measured the system infers that the pills have been removed and presumably taken by the patient Col. 7 lines 9 10 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 069 056 Methods And Apparatus For Increasing And Or For Monitoring A Party s Compliance With A Schedule For Taking Medicines Walker J. S. et al. issued Nov. 29 2011 requires a plurality of medicine containers which each contain different medications and wirelessly communicate Col. 2 lines 56 61 Claim 1 Col. 36 lines 26 28 . It also envisions an off site third party controller 106 may comprise for example a computers at an insurance company or medical facility or . . . an authentication server . . . . Col. 9 lines 55 57 . This invention presumes that proximity between the two containers equals compliance Col. 11 lines 44 46 Col. 16 lines 29 34 and lines 63 67 and particularly Col. 17 lines 61 63 . . . that identify compliance proximity information regarding the taking of the medicine . . . Col. 21 lines 27 29 though it does include as alternative embodiments allow additionally the use of any of a pressure weight or RFID sensors as any attribute that indicates the patient 104 has complied . . . Col. 24 lines 18 41 Claims 7 8 Col. 37 lines 5 10 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 284 068 Activity Monitor To Alleviate Controlled Substance Abuse Johnson S. issued Oct. 9 2012 focuses on detecting collecting and storing information about when a container has been moved opened or otherwise tampered with Col. 2 lines 5 6 . This invention also presumes that moving or opening a container means that the contents within have been taken Col. 10 lines 47 50 . This invention does consider at least the possibility of feedback but presumptively associates this as in response to feedback from other sources . . . Col. 11 lines 16 17 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 269 613 Smart Cap for a Medicine Container To Dispense A Medication While Self Verifying Medicine Identity Lazar Steven S. issued Sep. 18 2012 begins with identifying discussing and revealing a few of the limitations of the art prior to its filing. This patent comes closer than some of the others but presumptively links dispensing the medication with its being taken without considering the potential that the medication all or part of the dose may need to be returned when the patient cannot or should not take it for the invention in this patent is to prevent the improper dispensing of the medication Col. 4 lines 53 54 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 319 613 Smart Cap With Communication Function Lazar Steven issued Nov. 27 2012 and a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 8 269 613 also shares the presumptive linkage between the dispensing of a medication correctly and its being taken Col. 2 lines 46 48 Claim Col. 9 lines 54 59 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 538 775 application Ser. No. 11 839 723 issued Sep. 17 2013 Skomra S. A. Mobile Wireless Medication Management System provides a medication management system employing mobile devices and an imaging technology so that a user is able to show a pill to be taken to the system and the system can then identify the medication. Patient histories are available to an administrator including various vital signs as measured by the system. Images may also be taken of the patient provider medication container or the like. While the system professes to ensure adherence to a protocol the system only provides such help if requested by a user. There is in fact no particular manner in which to ensure actual adherence or the relationship of adherence to the efficacy of the drug over time. When customizing a medication regimen or monitoring a personal medication regimen this is particularly relevant.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 727 180 Smart Cap System Zonana M. et al. issued May 20 2014 focuses on the dispensing aspect to enable accurate dispensing of a specific medication dose through a mechanically complex cap mechanism FIG. 1 11 13 23 . This patent at least contemplated the possibility that an error may follow the dispensation of the dose 

In short that invention s solution to the problem of any post dispensing error breaks the mechanism and allows no corrective feedback save through an external agent.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 727 208 Method For Identifying Pills Via An Optical Device Poisner D. issued May 20 2014 focuses solely on the problem of correctly identifying via an optical device camera what medication composition and dosage is in an unknown pill chiefly for the use of emergency and law enforcement personnel and entities Col. 1 lines 20 34 Col. 7 lines 27 30 instead of chemical analysis and is not intended to be used by consumers or users of any pill s .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 754 769 Systems and Methods for Determining Container Contents Locations and Surroundings Adhere Tech Inc. et al. issued Jun. 17 2014 focuses on the specific aspects of using capacitance sensors for sensing the contents of a medication container Col. 1 lines 21 23 . Here again the presumption is that removal is the only operative action whereby a patient who does not take medicine as expected is reminded e.g. with different and or multiple reminders alerts until he or she removes the appropriate amount of medication from medication container 102. Col. 8 lines 50 54. This patent does allow the alternative sensing of when a cap has been closed or opened Col. 9 lines 24 27 then explicitly states its presumptive coupling . . . thus signaling that the patient might have just removed medication from the container Col. 9 lines 30 31 . Then this patent allows that a measurement might test the first presumption opening removal Col. 9 lines 33 35 but does not consider whether the second presumptive linking of removal of the medication with the taking of a dose other than as timing or data communication issues. Col. 9 lines 41 58. Its only concept of feedback is for a backend system 104 through purely symbolic communication e.g. via text message email and or telephone calls to patients Col. 14 line 6 9 .

U.S. Pat. No. 8 781 856 Method And Apparatus For Verification Of Medication Administration Adherence Hanina A. et al. issued Jul. 15 2014 requires as the present application does not both video capture equipment Col. 2 lines 64 66 and a third party remote comparative monitoring of activity of a medication s user to ensure proper compliance with a prescription regimen to confirm that the medication is being actually and properly taken Col. 2 lines 66 67 .

U.S. Pat. Appl. 2006 0102649 Good Cup Garukyan G. published May 18 2006 filed Oct. 5 2004 Application Ser. No. 10 957 902 is merely a device to make removal of a pill from a vial easier.

U.S. Pat. Appl. 2010 0142330 Attachable Device for Pill Container Reygaert P. published Jun. 10 2010 filed Oct. 30 2007 Application Ser. No. 12 514 026 is a variation on timer based dispensing which presumptively links access to the contents with dispensing and taking of the medication 0012 lines 7 8 thereof 0027 .

U.S. Pat. Appl. 2010 0270257 Medicine Bottle Cap With Electronic Embedded Curved Display Wachman J. S. et al. published Oct. 28 2012 filed Apr. 29 2010 Application Ser. No. 12 770 436 shares the approach of the prior art that what is needed is support to effect perfect compliance 0036 0045 . This system also specifically requires a multi color LED 0064 Claim 1 Most importantly It shares with the prior art the presumption that accessing the medication opening the specific dispensing point is equivalent to the medication s being taken 

U.S. Pat. Appl. 2014 0240094 Systems And Method For Determining Container Contents Locations and Surroundings AdhereTech Inc. et al. published Aug. 28 2014 filed May 8 2014 Application Ser. No. 14 273 289 a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 754 769 also focuses on increasing patient adherence to medication regimes 0004 0029 . This application implements the concept mentioned without enabling detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 877 268 and in the further embodiment of U.S. Pat. No. 8 068 931 0005 for detecting a quantity removed . . . but does not use any deviation from dosage to trigger alternative pathways emergency under or overdose concerns or changed interactions with other medications its focus is on providing one or more reminders and or alerts to the patient to take medication 0037 10 lines up from bottom of paragraph 0040 6 lines in . This application does recognize a single flaw of the prior art in presuming that operating a switch equates to taking a dose by imposing a timing constraint of a required delay to prevent container 102 from measuring recording and or reporting back a measurement when a patient accidentally activates the switch e.g. presses the switch with the patient s finger before the patient has removed any medication 0048 2 column on page 7 lines down . Yet its focus relentlessly remains on providing alerts rather than tracking and managing divergences between prescription regimen and real behavior. Among other assumptions this invention presumes the medication has both been correctly loaded and has not deteriorated in storage. 

None of these devices methods systems or prior art inventions fully address the underlying fundamental problem which separates perfection or prescription from performance reality . The fundamental problem which they do not consider nor address is neither new nor can it be solved by the most ingenious thorough imaginative or intrusive alerts buzzers timers reminders or nagging. It is an old and well known problem which defeats those more intelligent even more readily than it does those who are less capable. For individuals whose native with most enables them to overcome momentary lapses or to effectively pre plan against failure are those least armored in humility and least likely to insist on the detail by detail action by action step by step checking that alone can spot and as necessary correct or after its eventuation account for any unplanned inadvertent mishap. This fundamental problem is aptly and readily summarized in the phrase There s many a slip twixt the cup and the lip. 

What if a patient finds that the pill dispensed is not what it should be it is broken contaminated or just the wrong dose or medication What if a patient user takes out a pill too many Or experiences a momentary interrupt and wants and or needs to first put the pill back for safekeeping so she must be reminded again shortly to take that dose Suppose the patient is feeling too poorly to take a dose and elects to skip doing so Or decides she can tolerate only a partial dose What if a patient has dropped the dispensed pill into the toilet or sink and cannot retrieve it and so to take his dose needs a second pill now 

The prior art especially as it presumptively links correct dispensation with the dose going into the patient lacks feedback and error handling tracking resolution and recording to account for divergences between the cup and the lip it cannot adapt to the certainty of human imperfection nor for the most part handle what must happen when the presumption embedded in the prescription fails to match reality.

Admittedly no device or system can be perfect for while humans can devise myriads of ways to ensure that a dose is actually taken a resisting patient can respond with a like count of ways to subvert such efforts. Pills can be palmed tucked under the tongue or into the cheek or even swallowed and then vomited back up. These measures can defeat even the gold standard as experienced medical personnel in psychiatric wards and perhaps a majority of cat owners can attest. The present invention presumes at minimum some level of acceptance even if grudging or confused as to the necessity and desirability of adhering to a prescription regimen rather than active and intentional efforts to subvert and defeat it.

All of the above inventions because they presume perfection can be engineered into a device used by imperfect people lack feedback that measures when the theoretical regimen and reality fail to match means to identify the incident s of divergence error recording means to track divergences fallback means to recover from a presumption s failure or any set of the above and for each point of presumptive perfection lack in process situational corrective capabilities to handle a divergence at the level closest in time and reality.

Additionally existing systems that do not track errors by definition fail to maintain an accurate audit trail for post administration review by medical personnel and thus cannot confirm proper medication administration whenever an error is experienced. Existing systems are further generally impractical in that they fail to address many aspects of feedback and non adherence which may be critical to proper evaluation of the prescription regimen as it has been experienced by the user rather than as it was intended and prescribed originally by a medical service provider.

The need for the present invention becomes clearer when the perspective of need shifts from that of the provider of the medication to not the provider of the dispensing device but the user thereof i.e. the patient.

To solve the problem of errors and divergences at the precise moment of delivery slips must be looked for and corrected or else recorded exactly and as they occur thereby providing immediate specific and bi directional feedback as to the operation of the medical regimen in reality. The problem the present invention addresses the question it asks is What might be different between the plan prescription and reality this medication this dose this time this user and how can the user match the should be of the first to the is of the second In short how differently would the prior art and the present invention handle the situation where a patient drops her dose onto the floor or worse into the toilet 

While other systems have been proposed to ensure such proper usage of medication it is only the present invention that addresses the real problem and provides the necessary tool for the best approach at least one short of direct experienced and professional human supervision to the medication management problem. Because the present system integrates a reality based testing of what actually is provided when under what constraints and for whom against the theoretical dictates of the prescribed and medically approved plan and accounts for divergence s . All three points of the specific medication the right choice count and dosage are checked as are all three points of the prescription s regimen for this specific patient at this specific time and with an acceptable condition actually being experienced by the patient when the dosage is taken . The device comprises sensory testing for both inputs and outputs to effect responsive feedback loops which match either match the actual behavior to the prescribed regimen and or validated and account for record errors and changes at the moment and points of dosage. So while there may come many a slip twixt cup and lip if for each little slip there s an immediate record and fix then nary a harm comes from such promptly fixed blips.

Medicine is practiced not perfected doctors treat from probabilities more often than certainties. In medication regimens the greatest preventable harm arises not from an intention but a mistake which creates a divergence between what is planned and what really happens. A prescription describes a plan to provide the patient with a series of events each of which is the dispensation of a specific dose of a specific medication in accord with constraints of acceptable time and conditions followed by the takinof that medication by that patient within those constraints. Reality is what happens and in reality any or all of the dose identity of medication identity of patient and time and condition constraints may diverge from the plan.

Instead of presuming the simplest case perfect adherence of performance to plan the present invention presumes that errors can occur should be detected should be corrected as feasible and most of all that divergences should be tracked and reported to best effect the overall assessment of the quality of the experienced as opposed to planned treatment.

The term container can include not only a receptacle for a medication but also an appliance for storing and decanting one or more individual doses of a medication. One non exclusive example of such a container an appliance for storing and decanting a medication is a vaporizer that provides medicine for a patient to inhale another is a pre filled syringe that provides a medicine for a patient to inject him her self with.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described in this document as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects.

The term image identify and or image identifications means to use images that may be obtained and transmitted across a wireless communications system to identify a patient at least by facial recognition optionally a medication provider at least by facial recognition a medication a label for a medication disclosing at least the medicine and other useful or required information and or a container for the medication. These terms therefore include the capability of an instrument to capture store and transmit biometric features of a person including but not limited to fingerprint footprint and iris data for identification and or authentication.

The term instrument in combination with the words mobile wireless communications means and includes at least any of a cellular phone a pager a satellite telephone a two way pager and any of a personal digital assistant PDA a portable data processor a home entertainment system control box a wireless local area networks and any other type of wireless device having wireless transceiving capabilities which may include any personal communications services device PCS whether such wireless transceiving uses any of time division multiple access TDMA a code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile GSM universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wideband code division multiple access W CDMA evolution data optimized EV DO wireless local area network WLAN wireless personal area network WPAN or other protocols and codes for any of voice visual data and text communication.

The term medicine refers to a substance or compound accessible to the user either as a non prescription over the counter or prescription only available through a licensed dispenser purchase and it may be any of a vitamin a nutritional supplement a mineral or chemical substance or compound plus any stabilizing transportative or ameliorative additional substances such as the filler solution patch or binder . In a slightly less formal phrase this is also a drug without the connotative freight of suggested or implied illegality of use as might be confusing when referencing medical marijuana whose legality depends on both geographic and political positioning .

The phrase Mobile wireless communication instrument means a device that is able to transceive electromagnetic signals without cables with any of a wireless communications system comprising an array of operatively connected communication devices which may also include a wired telecommunications portion satellites including satellites that are part of the Global Positioning System GPS Galileo GLONASS NAVSTAR GNSS a system that uses satellites from a combination of these systems or any Satellite Positioning System SPS subsequently developed . As used in this document an SPS also includes pseudolite pseudo satellite systems.

The term patient means any person who is under medical care or treatment who requires use ingestion and or injection of a medication.

The term prescriber means any person authorized to prescribe and or dispense a medicine as well as any person authorized to confirm compliance by a patient in a treatment plan using such medicine.

The term provider means any person authorized to physically provide and or dispense a medicine as well as any person authorized to confirm the fact of prescription for or dispensation to a patient of such medication as part of a treatment plan using such medicine.

The term static memory means non transitory computer readable media both Read Only and Read Write memory that does not depend on continued electrical power to retain its stored values as contrasted to dynamic memory which while it also can be Read Write memory will lose its contents when power is not provided.

The term validation protocol means a procedure for comparing and collating any of codes images and related data e.g. voice or finger print that enables an individual whether patient or medical prescription issuer prescriber or medical prescription provider provider to identify and authenticate transmitted information as being sourced by another individual with whom such communication and permission to treat are currently authorized particularly when such communication concerns any of the specifics of a choice of medication correct dosage and correct timing for ingestion or use of a medication. The validation protocol may include a combination of at least a visual image of the patient a visual image of the container or vial in which medicine is dispenses to the patient a visual image of a label disclosing the associated medicine and other useful or required information about the medicine optionally a visual image of at least one sample of the medication and or optionally a visual image of a medication prescriber or provider or a textual representation thereof. The validation protocol may be included in a computer processor and or data processor that present visual images and other parameters in the validation protocol and may also present step by step requirements as to conditions external to or internal to the patient which the prescriber and or provider requires to serve as predicates to using and or ingesting a medicine.

The invention starts with a user hereafter generally referred to as a patient i.e. a person seeking to treat an illness a prescriber and or provider who as part of a plan for treatment for the patient authorize the possession and use of at least one legally possessed substance which generally is a medicine or drug of which a determined amount dose is to be assimilated it may be eaten inhaled injected applied to or through the skin or inserted through a natural or artificial orifice into the patient s body for its beneficial effect said authorization and use following a treatment plan which is a schedule of actions for the patient to take i.e. assimilate a series of doses over time a treatment regimen which is the series of actual experiences of the patient in following the treatment plan and a goal of effecting and recording the treatment regimen which recording correctly tracks the actuality experienced by the patient and will can and should be used in any review by any of the prescriber and provider when considering continued use or treatment of the patient.

Whenever there is an error whether of omission or commission in or a deviation by chance or choice from the treatment plan the specifics thereof are noted and recorded and incorporated into the treatment regimen. In addition not only are errors or omissions which can be and are corrected within the acceptable bounds or window therefor also recorded along with the correction but also post issuance changes to the treatment plan are authorized validated effected or even disapproved and forbidden and as such then incorporated into and recorded in the now altered treatment regimen. It is the reality not the plan the regimen not the prescription that should govern evaluation and continuing care of the patient and his or her use or not of each medicine.

Typically a medicine comes in a given concentration and volume and or weight 20 grams 3 milliliters for each single unit and a dose will comprise a number of such units 1 or more or a readily divisible fraction e.g. pill dose . For example a common statin is sold in units of 1 pill incorporating 600 mg of gemfibrozil with a standard dose being a single pill a standard anti anaphylactic shock effector comes in a unit as a single use autoinjector delivering 300 g of epinephrine at 1 1000 concentration with a dose being that one usage and a common B2 adrenergic receptor agonist comes in a pressure releasing inhaler delivering 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate in microcrystalline suspension per inhaler activation or puff with a dose being two activations. The late night comedian line take two aspirin and call me in the morning has the unit of one pill and the dose at two units . We cannot tell whether a dose is 2 81 mg baby aspirin 162 mg or 2 325 mg standard adult aspirin 650 mg but we can be sure that 325 mg is equivalent to the 5 grain English apothecaries measure. 

For ease in following the description of the invention the embodiment that is generally described hereafter will be that handling those drugs embodied as a set of pills whether in solid gelcap aerofoam or other self contained ingestible or insertable form . Other physical forms e.g. vials injectors patches even liquids and powders which can be placed into the container removed from the container and replaced back into the container without transforming or deteriorating the drug can be managed with means that are known to the prior art however those medications which are affected by the distribution such that they cannot safely be replaced unchanged are not within the scope of the present invention.

The treatment plan will specify the dose timing intervals and external and internal conditions or constraints that should govern the user s taking assimilation of the medicine. The treatment plan is what the prescriber prescribes but what happens thereafter is what the patient experiences. Temporal causality ensures that a treatment plan can neither prevent nor record any deviation s or the causes and purposes thereof the user experiences after the plan is made.

The present invention focuses on not the perfection of adherence to the treatment plan but the feedback and experience which constitutes the regimen. It presumes there will be slips and thus there must be both adjustments to and tracking of such changes. It does these rather than seeking the impossibility of plan perfect treatment.

The treatment regimen is the actual experience i.e. the series of doses as actually taken. It not the treatment plan is what medical supervision and decision making should be based on. However in all post hoc determinations and assessments the treatment regimen will be presumed to be identical to the treatment plan in the absence of any record of deviation s . The more the treatment plan and treatment regimen differ the less effective and possibly more harmful the medication is likely to be. Even the very best and most powerful medication is of no use if never taken or if it is only taken in direct contravention to constraints which deter it from being effective. All of overdoses underdoses adverse reactions and ready tolerance despite contra indicating conditions should be recorded in and considered during the review of the actual treatment regimen.

A dose will be the number whole fraction or combination thereof of pills necessary to establish the effective concentration of the drug in the patient s body. Thus the unit count for the dose is one aspect of both treatment plan and regimen. Each dose must be tracked as to its unit count for having less or more than the planned number certainly may effect both the timing of the next dose and the effectiveness of the treatment regimen as experienced by the user. Adjustments may be required and if effected recorded as part of the feedback process during the treatment regimen.

Timing intervals may have fixed or floating durations and durations may have minimum and maximum ranges. This enables a functional concentration but not a harmful concentration to be maintained in the user s body . The prescriber or provider may also set a dosing window i.e. a level of acceptable imprecision in the timing e.g. plus or minus ten minutes to allow for human imperfection in temporal exactitude. As long as a dose is taken within the dosing window the timing interval to the next dose need not be reset.

External conditions specify what must or must not be true for the assimilation to effect the desired concentration in the body. Exemplary external conditions include whether the patient has eaten something no more than 20 minutes before assimilating the dose or has not eaten anything for at least 2 hours before assimilating the dose depending on whether the intake of food cushions blocks or may interfere with the assimilation or whether the patient has slept or had a bowel movement since the last dose or the temperature at which the medicine was stored exceeded high or low limits for guaranteed stability etcetera. Internal conditions specify the presence or absence of symptoms nausea disorientation excessive fatigue or muscle soreness or testable values temperature blood pressure heart rate indicative of the safety or potential for harm from assimilation. Exemplary internal conditions include do not take if nauseous do not take if dizzy or disoriented do not drive after taking do not use inhaler if unable to breathe normally or do not take if blood pressure exceeds either 150 systolic or 85 diastolic .

The patient is given a medication in a container which holds at least one and generally a plurality of doses enough to last under the treatment plan until the next planned review by the prescriber . Generalized instructions and explanations are usually also provided but these are now usually both extensively filled with boundary constraints and warnings and for a prophylactic purpose more aimed at preventing providers liability than use specific instruction. Either the prescriber or provider may give the patient specific instruction as to such dosage timing and constraints particular to that patient for that treatment plan for that medication and then the patient departs from the provider s direct observation and control until the next review.

A further complication is that certain doses may be optional for that specific dose at that specific time within a treatment plan. A treatment plan may allow as few as one or as many as twelve doses in any 24 hour period or allow 3 doses in 24 hours but require both a minimum gap of four hours and a maximum gap of 12 hours between doses. The specifics of timing and constraints must be evaluated each time the user either seeks or should seek to take a dose.

The Control Set is a set of buttons comprising operational input and programming controls for the invention. In the preferred embodiment these comprise a Program button a Clock button which has a secondary function of a count decrementor a Quantity button which has a secondary function of a count incrementor an On Off button and a Dosing Release button . Pressing the Dosing Release button will start the process of delivering a dose from the Storage Volume to outside the container . In this initial embodiment the dose will be delivered to the patient through a bi directional Dose Checking Tunnel and exit the container at the Distal Filling door while in the preferred embodiment shown in and further described below the dose will be delivered through a second delivery Dose Checking Tunnel described below to the Delivery Element from where it will be retrieved by the patient and a rejected dose will go elsewhere.

Also visible is the Reset button which when activated provides the capability to reset the Operations Cap to a predeterminable default state as it would come out of the OEM . This provides a means to recover from an electronic lockup or programming failure. All data required or optional in the database and or memory which supposed to be entered by the patient pharmacy doctor caretaker etc. before starting use the device any configurations would be cleared from the static memory and the dynamic memory the microprocessor microcontroller or embedded controller would be reset deleting all I O states the Clock would be reset to a 00 00 time the Visual Display would be blanked and the power would be cycled. In the preferred embodiment activation of the Reset Button would take more than a single short 

At the top is the distal Filling Door shown in this drawing is the embodied sensor of any class known to the art that detects whether that Filling Door is opened or closed. The sensors for the other Filling Doors are not shown but are a part of the invention as described below. 

Below the distal Filling Door at the interior surface of the Dose Checking Tunnel is a Distal Counting Sensor the distal of a linearly separated distal and medial pair of sensors which enable the direction of movement of medication within the Dose Checking Tunnel to be correctly sensed in the preferred embodiment this is a photocell though it may also be a magnetic frictional physical electric optical or other sensor as known in the prior art. Below the Distal Counting Sensor is an Identifying Sensor described further elsewhere used to identify the specific medication passing through the Dose Checking Tunnel . Below the Identifying Sensor is the Medial Counting Sensor the medial of the linearly separated distal and medial pair of sensors and at the medial end of the Dose Checking Tunnel connecting it with the Storage Volume is the medial Filling Door . These paired Filling Doors and Counting Sensors at each end distal medial of the Dose Checking Tunnel plus the intermediate Identifying Sensor enable a controlled unitary scan check and count of each unit of any medication to be stored into or dispensed from the Storage Volume of the container .

Located within the Operations Cap and around the Dose Checking Tunnel are an Operations Set comprising at least one printed circuit board on which the operative electronic elements are located at least any of a microprocessor microcontroller or embedded controller both Static Memory and dynamic memory and an optional Clock all used to store and run operational program s and data and all connected through any of a bus baseplane and backplane to the Control Set and through the Operations Cap to the battery.

The user then will obtain the drug from a provider for a prescription medication a pharmacy and pharmacist in the quantity deemed mutually acceptable based on toxicity control schedule cost risk or hazard of deterioration etc. to the prescriber provider insurer and user and the provider will fill the container . At this step after each individual unit of the drug is placed into the distal Filling Door it passes through the Dose Checking Tunnel and if validated the unit count will be incremented and the unit placed in the Storage Volume .

When the unit count equals the quantity set the prescriber uses the Operations Cap through the Control Set to activate the medication schedule detailed in the treatment plan and the time to the next dose incorporating any agreed upon Dosing Window is calculated and the timer s count towards it begins . The time and in an expanded embodiment the specific details such as name of medication unit count ordinal dose count unit description for the next dose may be displayed on the Visual Display continually or to save power only through using the Control Set .

Any exception to the dosing schedule requested between doses is handled according to the flowchart of the third feedback checkpoint see also described below .

When the scheduled interval has elapsed the scheduled dose alert activates and the first feedback checkpoint as to the correctness of medication dose and timing described below in is performed. Assuming the first feedback checkpoint returns a correct result if the alert has been given and the ready to remove dose is available the second feedback checkpoint as to whether the patient removes returns or rejects the dose or asks for a reset of the time described below in is performed .

Assuming the second feedback checkpoint returns a correct result and there is no interruption request for exception or request for a fix of an observed by the user error then the schedule to the next dose is set according to the time the dose is actually taken or rejected and with attention to the compliance within or beyond the Dosing Window and the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing . Any such request is handled through the third feedback checkpoint at this state.

At any of the steps a validation feedback checkpoint in the form shown in may be incorporated to ensure that only the individual s who is or are specifically authorized to effect that step are personally aware of and in fact doing so.

If the pattern is not matched the exception for handling an incorrect medication one of possibly several Discard Handling Exceptions is invoked that unit is discarded and the steps of sending another unit from the Storage Volume into the Dose Checking Tunnel and checking whether this is the right medication are repeated. In a further embodiment of this invention additional error handling processes are invoked after multiple failures to send out the correct medication.

If the pattern is matched then the unit count is incremented and compared against the dose count to check whether the dosage quantity is right . While in many perhaps even most cases a single pill will comprise each single dose if multiple pills are needed then the steps to send and check another unit are repeated until the incremented unit count matches the dose count.

Once the incremented count matches the dose count the pill s in the Dose Checking Tunnel are passed over the Distal Counting Sensor and the Distal Filling Door is unlatched so the dose checked as to both identity of medication and count is made available for pickup .

If the above steps have been performed independent of human effort i.e. if the medical delivery checking and counting have all been autonomously performed then at this point an optional patient alert is sent to the user if he or she had not already received one letting the patient user know that the dose is ready and available.

The dose having been made available to the user and the user alerted the time continues to count through the period of any Dosing Window. A user may at any time during a Dosing Window pick up the device and through activating the Control Set in the preferred embodiment doing so by pressing the Dosing Release button seek to obtain the dose scheduled for that Dosing Window. An optional validation check see can be run at that time. When the Dosing Release Button is pressed the distal Filling Door is opened and the medication is removed by the user the Operations Cap records that dose and time as having been taken and sets the timer counting towards the next scheduled dose release i.e. the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing .

For the duration of the Dosing Window the Operations Cap waits for a signal that the dose has been removed from the container . Depending on the embodiment this can come from the activation of a latch sensor when the Delivery Gate is opened the opening of the distal Filling Door after the Dosing Release Button has been pressed once or the indication of the MedPresent Sensor that a dose is no longer present in the Delivery Element . If the dose is not removed before the Dosing Window is exceeded then to any set of the prescriber and patient a late dose alert is sent and an exception to the treatment plan is logged into the Static Memory and the Operations Cap latches the distal delivery door any of the distal Filling Door and Delivery Gate resets the time to the next dose and sets the timer in the preferred embodiment its Clock counting towards the next scheduled dose release i.e. the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing .

If the medication is removed and is not returned then the user is credited with that dose and it is logged into the Static Memory as having been taken. If it is returned then each unit is passed back into the container through a Dose Checking Tunnel . As explained above each unit is counted and scanned and identified i.e. during passage the Identifying Sensor compares that unit against the pattern s stored in the Static Memory in the Operations Cap the observed salient feature s of the unit thus checking whether this is the right medication . If a dose comprises more than one unit the count of units returned is logged but until the number not returned drops below an effective dose the dose count is not reduced and until the number count reaches the number of units delivered the right medication has not been returned. If the count of unit s and dose returned matches those delivered then no further action is taken and the returned unit s are restored to the Storage Volume and the count of medication stored is incremented accordingly.

The user is queried via the Visual Display whether he is refusing the unit s returned and the response is logged in Static Memory . In a further embodiment the refusal response and contextual data time count returned refused taken is sent via the Remote Link to the prescriber. Not shown is the separate handling of an undercount where the units returned are restored to the Storage Volume the user is sent a query as to the location of any non returned unit s and the provider is alerted as to the time and quantity of non returned unit s . 

If what is returned is not the right medication then that unit is discarded the user is asked why the wrong item was returned and the user s response or the lack thereof and the failure of return are both logged and the user is asked whether they request that the dose timing be reset and in a yet further embodiment after a delay time to enable localized user correction preferably within the Dosing Window the logging and handling of the user s response is handled as described immediately above.

If the medication returned is the right medication and amount to leave a non effective dose or no dose whatever then the user is asked whether the dose timing is requested to be reset . If there is no such request then the user may yet take the dose out before the Dosing Window is exceeded . If there is a request to reset the dose timing then the Operations Cap logs the request and in one embodiment can send the request via the Remote Link to the prescriber for approval and reprogramming and in another embodiment reschedules the next dose according to the constraints of the treatment plan . After this whether or not the timing has been reset the Operations Cap sets the timer counting towards the next scheduled dose release i.e. the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing .

Each time that the Clock matches up with a time within the limits of the Dosing Window as stored in the Static Memory that is according to the treatment plan when it is time for a dose to be taken the Operations Cap uses all data to evaluate whether any specific constraint that would prohibit or constrain the taking of that specific dose has been violated . If no constraint has been violated then the dose is prepared for the user and the operation loops back to the Schedule Dose Alert Activates .

If however a constraint has been violated for example too many doses within a 24 hour period the Operations Cap will a log the constraint and its violation b issue an alert to the user and c issue an alert to the prescriber .

If the user fails to respond or otherwise does not request an exception to the constraint then the Operations Cap will reset the time for the next dose and set the timer counting towards the next scheduled dose release i.e. the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing .

If the user does request an exception then this request is sent via the Remote Link to the prescriber whose response or the lack thereof is logged and if the exception is approved by the prescriber the dose is prepared and the operation loops back to the Schedule Dose Alert Activates while if the exception is not approved it is not prepared and then the Operations Cap will reset the time for the next dose and set the timer counting towards the next scheduled dose release i.e. the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing .

In any embodiment where any authorization is required then any of the latchable door plus sensor elements that would allow the removal of anything from the container default to a locked state when there is any medication that door plus sensor gives access to. Upon a dose removal attempt the Visual Display will prompt the user to enter using the Control Set the validating authorization as described further below. Upon receiving the response the Operations Cap determines through matching the provided input against the required pattern stored in the Static Memory whether or not this specific taking of the medication is authorized and logs the attempt plus contextual information time of day location of container . If the user is authorized i.e. if the patterns match then the Operations Cap will release the specified latch and thus release the dose and the operation loops back to the Schedule Dose Alert Activates . In a further embodiment not shown the Remote Link can be used to report the attempted access to the prescriber or to let the prescriber authorize the access. 

If the user is not authorized then the user is alerted to his or her invalidity and an alert reporting the attempt is sent to the prescriber . The lack of authorization thus is treated as an external constraint. If the user fails to respond or otherwise does not request an exception to the constraint then the Operations Cap will reset the time for the next scheduled dose release if the time has elapsed or keep the timer counting towards the next scheduled dose release if the time has not elapsed i.e. the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing .

If the user does request an exception then this request is sent through the Remote Link to the prescriber whose response or the lack thereof is logged and if the exception is approved the dose is prepared and the operation loops back to the Schedule Dose Alert Activates while if the exception is not approved then the Operations Cap will reset the time for the next dose and set the timer counting towards the next scheduled dose release i.e. the operation loops back to the Next Dose Timing .

Or if the medication is the wrong strength then the Operations Cap can recalculate the unit count per dose for this dose using this specific unit correct the issue for this dose issuing further units if more strength is needed requiring the return into the container if too many were issued recalculate the number of doses remaining in the container notify the provider through the Remote Link that this unit of the wrong strength had been placed into the container and the problem and solution logged into the treatment regimen record.

Or if the medication is the wrong drug then the Operations Cap can discard the unit issue a new unit the unit count in the Storage Volume appropriately decremented by two one for the discarded and one for the valid unit the patient alerted to the change and the problem and solution logged into the treatment regimen record.

A second class of exceptions will be when at least one unit of a specific dose is returned by the user . The Operations Cap will for all of these log the return as exemplified in but the handling may differ according to the reason for the return. If the unit is unusable then the Operations Cap can discard the unit issue a new unit decrement the unit count in the storage volume appropriately by two one for the discarded and one for the valid unit alert the patient to the change and record both the problem and solution into the treatment regimen record without changing the ordinal dose count.

If however the return is because the user indicates that internal symptoms he is experiencing deter or even prevent him from taking this dose then the Operations Cap will return the unit to the Storage Volume correct by incrementing according to the number of units both the ordinal dose and the unit count recalculate the doses remaining in the container notify the prescriber of the reported symptom s which may optionally include readings from one or more medical testing devices not claimed supporting such symptom s and record both the problem and solution into the treatment regimen record.

If in a third alternative possibility the return is because the user indicates that one or more external constraints require that he not take this dose then the Operations Cap will return the unit to the Storage Volume correct by incrementing according to the number of units both the ordinal dose and the unit count recalculate the doses remaining in the container reset the next dose interval optionally notify the prescriber through the Remote Link of the reported symptom s which may optionally include readings from one or more external devices not claimed establishing the external constraint and record both the problem and solution into the treatment regimen record.

Because the Operations Cap comprises both Static Memory and a Control Set it can be reprogrammed by an authorized individual to implement any devised set of exception correction and treatment altering handling procedures thereby enabling an adaptive and improving response to the complexities of the ongoing treatment regimen as experienced. The above set of exception handling routines can be modified through the Control Set or the Remote Link by anyone passing the fourth feedback checkpoint of establishing authorization.

At the top of the drawing is the filling Dose Checking Tunnel with its distal Counting Sensor Identifying Sensor Diversion Door medial Counting Sensor distal Filling door past which has been inserted a sizing insert and medial Filling door .

Near the bottom of the drawing is the delivery Dose Checking Tunnel with its own distal Counting Sensor Identifying Sensor medial Counting Sensor distal Filling door and medial Filling door and delivery Diversion Door connecting the delivery Dose Checking Tunnel to the delivery Diversion Tube . In this embodiment a dose comprising one or more units is taken from the Storage Volume scanned checked and counted through the delivery Dose Checking Tunnel and passed into the Delivery Element which is closed by the Delivery Gate . In a further embodiment the Delivery Element also has a MedPresent sensor described below.

There is also a Return Button on the exterior of the container near the Delivery Gate connected to the Operations Cap and battery by which the user can open the distal delivery Filling Door to return from the Delivery Element medication to the delivery Dose Checking Tunnel allowing the user to return a unit which when returned depending on whether it is acceptable or has been rejected can be placed in the desired storage volume.

As with the prior art in the present invention incorporates at least one container in which a patient s medication is kept for the patient s use. This container comprises at least one Storage Volume an Operations Cap a distal Filling Door a Dose Checking Tunnel a medial Filling Door a Battery Compartment into which a battery not claimed to power the invention is placed and in a further embodiment a Delivery Element all of which are connected and responsive with and to control audio and visual elements described further herein. In the simpler embodiment the distal Filling Door also serves as the latching closure and the Dose Checking Tunnel as the Delivery Element for removing pills from the Storage Volume . Unless specifically stated otherwise each door or gate not only is both connected with and controlled by the Operations Cap but also is a door plus sensor combination.

The container may be a regular container e.g. a pill vial or bottle specifically adapted to serve as the Storage Volume and to operate with the Operations Cap distal Filling Door Dose Checking Tunnel a container cap combination and in a further embodiment Delivery Element or may be an integrated unit. The container cap combination may be some form of pill cap a multi compartment pillbox a salve tube cap a syringe carousel an inhaler a pump dispenser a drop dispenser and the like. Those of skill in the art will understand upon reading this description that the container cap combination can be used with any medication delivery system and with any type of medication regardless of its form or dosage. The Operations Cap Distal Filling Door Dose Checking Tunnel medial Filling Door and Delivery Element may be fully or partially removable or fully or partially openable or may be an integral part of the container through which medication is dispensed. While a particular connector for connecting caps to containers is shown those skilled in the art will realize and understand that the actual mechanical interlock mechanism e.g. screw bayonet mount snap on etc. used will depend on the size and kind of container as well as its interlock system. In some embodiments an adaptor may be provided to allow caps for one kind of container to fit on another kind of container. When the Operations Cap is not an integral part of the container but is added on the preferred embodiment has at the medial interior end of the Operations Cap a Sealed Connection Sensor which registers that the Operations Cap is both correctly and connectedly affixed to the container .

The Control Set will be connected with the battery each of the individual buttons which comprise it in the preferred embodiment a Program button a Clock button which has a secondary function of a count decrementor a Quantity button which has a secondary function of a count incrementor an On Off button and a Dosing Release button any and all of the latchable and openable doors including the Distal Filling Doors Medial Filling Doors Diversion Doors the Delivery Gate and the Reject Door .

In a further embodiment for visually impaired users the audio enhanced embodiment the container further comprises an Audio Element connected to the Operations Cap and battery said Audio Element further comprising a speaker and a microphone for audio output and input respectively and the ON OFF control button and a RECORD button functionally connected to the Operations Cap and more specifically its microprocessor dynamic memory and Static Memory .

In the preferred embodiment where each unit is separately checked in filling and in dispensation the Storage Volume is also connected to a lower medial Filling Door at one location that is latchably openable and closeable and leads to a second delivery Dose Checking Tunnel which is like to the first having a medial and distal ends interior medial and distal counting sensors and unit identifying sensor and motivation means and through that to the Delivery Element and in the preferred embodiment a Reject Access Door to the Reject Storage Volume .

The Delivery Element connected and outside the second Dose Checking Tunnel s distal end and distal latching door from which it receives each pill comprises a Holding Volume and a Delivery Gate at the connection between Holding Volume and the exterior of the container .

Each of the lower medial Delivery Door Delivery Gate and Reject Access Door further comprise a locking mechanism using a solenoid controlled by the Operations Cap that prohibits passage through that specific checkpoint unless and except as authorized by the Operations Cap . For example if no fill authorization has been provided the medial Filling Door will remain closed and not permit the introduction of any pill into the Storage Volume while if no dose delivery authorization has been provided the medial Delivery Door of the second Dose Checking Tunnel will not permit either the introduction of any pill from the Dose Checking Tunnel into the Holding Volume and the distal Delivery door which may also be the Delivery Gate will not permit the release of any pill in the Delivery Element to the exterior of the container .

In a first further embodiment the Delivery Element further comprises a MedPresent Sensor connected to said Operations Cap located within the interior of and preferably at the interior surface of the Holding Volume for detecting the presence of a pill within the Holding Volume .

In a second further embodiment the Delivery Element further comprises a Return Button connected to said Operations Cap that will effect movement of the contents of the Delivery Element back through the second Dosing Checking Tunnel back into any of the set of the storage volume and the Reject Storage Volume depending on whether the returned unit matches or fails to match the pattern s identifying it as the specified medication.

In a distinct and third further embodiment the Delivery Gate will not permit moving the contents of the Delivery Element by the Return Button back into the delivery Dose Checking Tunnel without authorization and recording of the action effected through the Operations Cap whether said authorization comes from the patient using the Control Set or the prescriber and or provider using a Remote Link which is also connected to the Operations Cap and battery.

The Operations Cap will be connected to the distal Filling Door Dose Checking Tunnel medial Filing Door and Delivery Element and will govern their action s and in the further embodiment the delivery Dose Checking Tunnel and its sub elements . The Operations Cap further comprises a Control Set a Visual Display and at least one red and one green light for visual output . The preferred embodiment has a liquid crystal Visual Display the lights are LEDs.

The container further comprises a battery that powers the invention including without being limited to an Operations Cap Dose Checking Tunnel Delivery Element Visual Display set of lights and Control Set and in the further embodiment the second Dose Checking Tunnel . This battery is located in its own separate Battery Compartment of the container and is configured any of its interior and exterior surfaces to both contain clear indication of the positive and negative terminal locations for the battery and to enable easy and direct access thus ease of replacement thereof.

The Operations Cap effects the active operation of the invention comprising in the preferred embodiment at least one printed circuit board further comprising at least any of a microprocessor microcontroller or embedded controller both Static Memory and dynamic memory all used to store and run operational program s and data and all connected through any of a bus baseplane and backplane to the Control Set and to the battery.

The Control Set is a set of buttons comprising operational input and programming controls for the invention. In the preferred embodiment these comprise a Program button a Clock button which has a secondary function of a count decrementor a Quantity button which has a secondary function of a count incrementor an On Off button and a Dosing Release button . Pressing the Dosing Release button will start the process of delivering a dose from the Storage Volume to the Delivery Element as described in in a further embodiment this may require first meeting the validation process described in .

The Control Set will be connected with any of the latchable doors and gates within the container excluding the cover to the Battery Compartment .

The invention further comprises a Clock which may be part of or connected with any set of the Operations Cap the Delivery Element and any Dose Checking Tunnel . In the preferred embodiment the Clock is part of the Operations Cap and is connected with all of the above as well as the Control Set and Visual Display and receives power from the battery.

The Operations Cap controls the operation of the invention with the microprocessor connecting to each of Static Memory and dynamic memory and being also connected with and programmed to combine with the Clock to create both a timer and alarm which can be programmed with at least an alert for each dose time or in an alternative embodiment being connected with a separate timer subject to the Operations Cap . When a time has come for a dose to be taken the Operations Cap activates any set of the Visual Display red and green lights and in the audio enhanced embodiment the Audio Element s speaker with a playback of a message recorded in the Static Memory to serve as an alarm to the user that a dose should or may now be taken. This message may be recorded on the Static Memory or retrieved through a Remote Link described further below and it may be any of a set of different sounds sound patterns and or volumes for different circumstances e.g. a patient forgetting to take medication lack of connectivity through the Remote Link or sound of increasing intensity the longer a patient fails to take a medication dose within a dosing window. The sound may even be a voice alert from a trusted source e.g. patient s voice family member s voice and or prescriber s doctor s or provider s pharmacist s voice.

In a further embodiment the Operations Cap further comprises a speech synthesizer connected to the microprocessor for converting a message retrieved from a source by the microprocessor and placed into either Static Memory or dynamic memory from a first format into an audibly perceptible message format for subsequent presentation to the patient wherein the microprocessor is configured upon determining based upon a reading from the Clock that a predetermined time has arisen to retrieve the message from the source and provide the message to the speech synthesizer and play that message through the speaker .

In another further embodiment the Operations Cap incorporates both a Remote Link and in any of its embedded hardware firmware or static and dynamic memories an open or other application programming interface API for itself. This may allow other devices and systems e.g. remote computer portable device and or a mobile wireless communications instrument to communicate with the container through the Operations Cap in a more efficient and user friendly manner.

The invention preferably includes a store and forward architecture to ensure data collected and stored on its Static Memory resides in that physical location if an upload network connection is not possible for some period of time.

The Visual Display is preferably monochrome and can comprise any of a fixed set of glyphs a segmented display as is common in the realm of low cost liquid crystal displays or a dot matrix display if and as the displayed content may be a 2D bar code thus enabling it to also function as a machine readable information display. The Visual Display may provide other useful information e.g. an indication of whether a dose has been placed in the Delivery Element and may optionally indicate a schedule of past or future dose times as text e.g. 2 40 pm or as a graphic portraying an analog clockface. The Visual Display may also display other information such as instructions as to external and internal constraints on taking a dose unit count for a dose active ingredient medicine name battery level time network connectivity strength if RF connectivity is also embedded in the cap any set of names for prescriber provider and patient availability of rewards financial incentives social network status who the data is shared with or other such medically relevant information.

The prior art failed to track not just whether or not a dose is removed from the container but also whether that dose is replaced rejected or flawed and thus becomes a deviation from the plan . The present invention will when and as possible correct such deviations within the predetermined constraints or if such is unfeasible modifying the on going treatment plan to adapt to such deviation s and record each deviation between plan and regimen prescription and reality. Accordingly in a further embodiment of the invention the container further comprises a Reject Storage Volume

that will store doses or parts thereof that have been rejected either by the invention e.g. for not being a correct unit of the desired medication or the patient for a reason the user may and should but might not provide . The Reject Storage Volume is not connected to the Storage Volume but as described below to the Dose Transport and Inspection Tunnel.

The Dose Checking Tunnel is connected at its medial end to the Storage Volume further comprises a Medial Counting Sensor Identifying Sensor and Distal Counting Sensor placed both at the interior wall in or just above its interior surface with unobstructed access to the anterior of the Dose Checking Tunnel and in that sequence between its medial to distal ends and means to move each unit from one end to the other. In the preferred embodiment of the invention each of the Medial Counting Sensor and Distal Counting Sensor is an optical sensor such as a low power photodiode see . Upon receiving a command from the Operations Cap the medial Filling Door at the medial end of the Dose Checking Tunnel is unlatched to allow a single unit of the stored medication to move from the Storage Volume into the medial end of the Dose Checking Tunnel and then subject to its successfully being inspected and identified out the distal end a further embodiment has a separate Dose Checking Tunnel for both filling and delivering in this the single unit passes through the distal Filling Door into a Delivery Element .

Each unit of each dose each pill is checked as it is being made available to the user and is passing through the Dose Checking Tunnel . At least one Identifying Sensor in the preferred embodiment a camera evaluates whether this specific particular unit meets the sensory pattern for that particular medication. For each unit the distinguishing physical characteristic s which may be any combination of the set of shape weight size color or the presence absence difference of identifying symbol or tag or specific reactivity to light or electrical stimulus including phosphorescence or lack thereof upon illumination by specific wavelength s of light specific reactivity to hardness or sonic testing are tested and if not matched against the recorded pattern for that medication that unit is flagged to be discarded rather than dispensed and a record of that deviation including time cause and action resulting from it is made and stored in the invention. In the preferred embodiment the Identifying Sensor is a 2D 3D CCD camera connected to the Operations Cap that takes an image of the unit which then is compared against the pattern any of a set of stored images for that specific medication at the intended concentration and volume stored in the Static Memory . To best enable the imaging and comparison the interior wall of the Dose Checking Tunnel is a featureless smooth matte black colored and low reflection material.

In a further embodiment to accommodate different sized and shaped units an insert specifically sized and shaped for the intended and particular medication unit pill may be fitted inside the Dose Checking Tunnel with each said insert both so configured as to allow unobstructed sensing of each of the Medial Counting Sensor Identifying Sensor and Distal Counting Sensor and also having its interior wall a featureless smooth matte black colored and low reflection material. See . 

 A like detailing above and below should be read here for the whole and comprising elements of the delivery Dose Checking Tunnel . 

As can be understood from the above detailed explanation in the preferred embodiment the present invention provides for bidirectional detection of medication going out to the patient and being returned by the patient at each dosage instance instead of presuming unidirectional flow of each and every dose of medication from the provider to the container and next through to the user.

One key part to this bidirectional detection is the pair of sensors offset so that movement of a dose in the outward vector is differentiated from motion of a dose in the inward vector. In the preferred embodiment the passage of a pill by the Medial Counting Sensor first and the Distal Counting Sensor second is an outward passage while that of a pill by the Distal Counting Sensor first and the Medial Counting Sensor second is an inward dose.

In a further embodiment there is a both a Reject Storage Volume for rejected or wrong units and a separate Rejects Gate controlled by the Operations Cap connecting the Dose Checking Tunnel to the Reject Storage Volume and in that embodiment the rejected unit pill is sent there instead. See . This effects separation of broken or detectably adulterated units of the wrong and unintended medication and prevents the prior art s error of presumptive dispensing despite differentiation between what was provisioned and what was prescribed. The unique indicia checked for by the Identifying Sensor may include visible characteristics including color size shape inscriptions thereon etc. and this recognition element such as an optical scanner is connected either locally or through the Remote Link configured with at least one locally contained or external data base having general medication identification data and optionally patient specific information to scan and identify the medication and optionally the dosage specific formulations manufacturing source etc. and to record and correlate information regarding patient medication usage.

In a further embodiment of the invention any Dose Checking Tunnel is flexible and is wrapped in an electromagnetically driven coil which will compress from one end to the other according to the charge fed into that electromagnetically driven coil such that when a pill must be moved from the medial end towards or to the distal end the electromagnetically driven coil compresses behind the pill at the medial end and then the wave of compression moves along the wire and down the Dose Checking Tunnel to the distal end and when a pill must be moved from the distal end towards or to the medial end the electromagnetically driven coil compresses behind the pill at the distal end and then the wave of compression moves along the wire and up the Dose Checking Tunnel to the medial end.

In yet a further embodiment of the invention the Dose Checking Tunnel further comprises a third latching Reject Gate which in turn is connected to the Operations Cap see that controls the opening to a secondary tunnel connecting the Dose Checking Tunnel to the Reject Storage Volume . This Reject Gate is opened whenever a unit is inspected and either a does not match the identifying pattern for the correct medication or b has been returned by the user through the Delivery Gate and identified by the user as being no longer suitable for assimilation thereby allowing the rejected unit to pass through a one way latching gate at the far end of the second Dose Checking Tunnel into the Reject Storage Volume . In yet a further embodiment a Clearance Gate can be activated by an authorized prescriber or provider to access from the outside the Reject Storage Volume and thus enable emptying out and inspection and or counting of any and all rejected units retained within the Reject Storage Volume .

The invention checks each pill before it is delivered to the user as all or part of a single dose by passing that pill by the Identifying Sensor which examines that pill and compares the relevant data against the stored and thus known validating pattern for that specific medication. In the preferred embodiment this is a visual sensor though the identifying sensor may comprise and use any one or more of visual mass RFID Near Field Communication NFC odorant chemical composition sound conductivity or other sensors that can differentiate pills by any of shape engraving label size color s image pattern scent reactivity vibratory or magnetic or electrical response i.e. any fixed and determinable uniquely identifying physical characteristic s of the pill. In the preferred embodiment this Identifying Sensor serves a dual function because by being placed between the Medial Counting Sensor and the Distal Counting Sensor it allows each pill to be checked as it is passed out to or replaced back in by the user.

In a further embodiment the invention allows inspection of each unit as it is placed into the container before it is put into the Storage Volume to capture and correct provider errors while the container is being filled whereby a mistake by the provider that places a wrong unit into the distal Filling Door can be captured and corrected by routing that wrong unit to the Reject Storage Volume as described above while the container is being filled. If the Identifying Sensor detects a pill which cannot be positively identified as a unit of the prescribed medication i.e. the shape color mass surface pattern etc. are wrong then the filling may be flawed and thus must be stopped and corrected so the Operations Cap locks the medial Filling Door closed activates an alarm audible or visual or both locks the distal Filling Door open and optionally also records and or sends a message to the provider and optionally also the prescriber is sent to prevent a mistake such as placing two distinct types of medication into an interior storage meant to hold just one specific type.

In yet another and further embodiment the invention further comprises a second Dose Checking Tunnel connecting the Storage Volume with the Delivery Element that allows the user to reject a specific unit and return it with the Return Element whereby the invention determines whether that returned unit is acceptable and can be returned to the Storage Volume or is unacceptable and must be placed in the Reject Storage Volume .

In a further embodiment the invention further comprises an authentication and validation element security check which uses any of a PIN code bio data sensor and stored identifying pattern for the set of individuals who are authorized to issue exceptions to specific and identified external and internal constraints and thus permit an over or under dose to be taken by the patient and recorded as a variation from the treatment plan within the treatment regimen with the nature of the exception the authorization requirement the authorization matching and the fact of that variation in dosing all recorded and reported to the prescriber and or provider. In yet a further embodiment the Remote Link can be used by any of the prescriber and provider to override the Delivery Element remotely to effect a lock preventing any delivery of any unit s of the medication to control attempted overdosing by the patient.

In like fashion upon receipt of information indicating a necessity for an exception the Remote Link can be used by any of the prescriber and provider to override the Operations Cap Dose Checking Tunnel and Delivery Gate and to effect delivery of any unit s of the medication in response to an emergency need by the patient for a further issuance of the medication beyond the limits of the treatment plan with said authorization and delivery being recorded in the treatment regimen automatically as effected.

As part of the treatment plan the total count of the units of medication placed inside the Storage Volume and the date time and individual provider performing such placement are recorded in the Static Memory . As part of validation of each unit and dose the invention compares any input data e.g. from an external record or the treatment plan establishing the use by date for its contents and if the Clock establishes that such a date has been reached alerts all of the patient prescriber and provider to the necessity to a remove for destruction rather than use all remaining units inside the container and b replace the contents of the Storage Volume with currently valid units of the same medication for the ongoing progress of both treatment plan and treatment regimen. If the invention has been appropriately programmed it may also issue one or more in series refill request to any of prescriber and provider within the authorizations of the number and timing minimum and maximum bounds of refills for that patient for that medication.

Between one dose and the next scheduled in the treatment plan there may occur any of a set of constraint violations. This will be a greater concern when the user has more freedom to choose any set of the timing and strength of a dose for while the most local constraint e.g. 4 hours between doses may not be violated a larger scope constraint may be violated no more than 4 doses in 24 hours . If a medication must be kept above or below a certain temperature to remain effective unfrozen or chilled then too much time in the wrong environment may spoil the medication. Or a medication may reach its shelf life or a renewal must be ordered to ensure sufficient supply before the next dose. In a further embodiment depending upon the limitations of programming and Static Memory the invention s Static Memory may be provided with and retain details of the medication including the local and broader constraints environmental constraints and any set of expiration date dosage level name of the drug both common and trade name as well as an indication if it is a generic version the number of refills and the number of remaining refills on a prescription whether there is duplication prescribing doctor s pharmacist or other health professional common side effects and interactions with other drugs and food how and when to take the dosages and the ability to receive medication alerts from the Web or Internet. Accordingly in some embodiments the invention is able to alert any set of the patient prescriber provider or designated contact for the contents in the Storage Volume to be discarded or replaced using any of the alert mechanisms described above and or other alert s . Such information stored in the Static Memory is also preferably accessible for updating which may be done by any authorized and validated individual be that the patient or more preferably by the dispensing pharmacy provider physician or other health professional prescriber aware of the changed information. Additional information which may be stored in the Static Memory may include contact information for any of the prescriber and provider and the entire record s of the usage of the container including all medications treatment plans treatment regimens and most specifically all inputs relating to the external conditions internal conditions and variations between plan and experienced regimen as these can and should govern full knowing evaluation of the efficacy for that patient for that medication and that treatment plan.

A count is kept of the unit s for each dose and that count is measured against the constraint s of the treatment regimen upon passing the Medial Counting Sensor and then Distal Counting Sensor in an outward direction. In a further embodiment if the count would violate the upper limit the invention does not allow the passage of that or any unit past the Distal Counting Sensor and through to the Delivery Element unless except and until a specific authorization is received from the provider at which time the issuance of both authorization and overcount overdose is recorded and stored by the invention as a deviation from the treatment plan.

If enough units have passed the Distal Counting Sensor but the patient takes too few units out of the Delivery Element to comprise a dose i.e. if there are units left in the Delivery Element after the timing window has passed then a further alarm is activated alerting the user and if the unit s remaining in the Delivery Element is are not taken within the existing dosing window the undercount and underdose is recorded the deviation is reported to the provider any adjustment to the provisioning schedule is computed and then made and either the counted but not dispensed unit s is are returned past the Medial Counting Sensor counted back into the Storage Volume and decremented from the record of units dispensed or the per dose count of units for the next dose is decremented by the number of units remaining in the Delivery Element and the Delivery Gate is latched until the next release time.

Additionally each dose is checked against the constraints governing its proper dispensation to this user at this time under the conditions set by the treatment regimen. These constraints may be referenced from an external source e.g. a digital storage of the Physicians Desk Reference or that medicine s producer s private data records or may be stored in the invention s memory. If a dose would result in the user taking an overdose that would be recorded and an immediate alert sent to the provider and prescriber and without receipt of an authorization would not permit that dose to issue through not letting the units pass into the Delivery Element but keeping them in the Dose Checking Tunnel .

The invention will also indicate to the user what the medication is which is being dispense basing its determination on the sensor s and prior records of inbound medication. In the preferred embodiment notification will be provided on a container centric LCD display and will show any of the name s dosage and unit counts for that medication for that patient for this specific delivery.

And as different medications may require different delivery efforts a set of differing inserts that will match the bulk retention volumes for each specific medication to the Dose Checking Tunnel can be provided for the user as described above. The selection of the correct insert will be enabled only when the treatment plan authorizes the delivery of a dose or upon paring of a specific request of the user and authorization of the provider provided in advance with constraints on number of times minimal intervals between requests maximum number of total approvals in any or multiple interval scalars is tested and recorded as being satisfied by the invention which then deactivates the blocking element from preventing that insert matching up to the Dose Checking Tunnel .

If a dose is removed and not replaced the invention will log that dose and time unless and except as the user may enter a correction. If for example the dose comprises three pills and three pills were removed the invention would record that 3 pills were taken. If the user drops one pill and does not wish to take that specific but now contaminated pill the user may enter a correction. In that further embodiment the user inserts the rejected pill back into the Dose Checking Tunnel where the rejected pill is sensed passing inwards of the Distal Counting Sensor and checked by the Identifying Sensor . If the inserted unit does not match the user is alerted to this thus preventing subversion by intentional substitution and the count of dispensed units is not altered while if the unit does match the count is decremented and the unit is returned to the container possibly for re release later. In a further embodiment the user has the option to have the unwanted and untakeable pill diverted into a Rejected Storage where it will be counted and stored.

Both the issuance and the correction are recorded in the Static Memory and that record of deviation from the treatment regimen is delivered to the provider at the next review. In a further embodiment of the invention the provider may query the invention about the absence or presence and nature of any deviations at the provider s initiative and thus detect whether grounds exist for an expedited review perhaps to catch significant under or over dosage problems before too much harm can arise or change in the treatment plan based on the patient s experienced treatment regimen.

In the event that any of the unit count medication identification timing or other constraint indicate that this dose should not be taken by the user the invention provides an alert specifying the cause for the alert and records the attempt to access that specific medication. This attempted deviation is used by the preferred embodiment as an impelling cause to effect communication to the prescriber and to the user as to both the attempt and nature of the violation. In the preferred embodiment the prescriber can authorize the release in which case both the record of the deviation and authorization for release are made and stored by the invention.

For the purposes of the following descriptions of the functioning of the invention it will be described as for a container holding one or more pills though different containers for handling liquid injectable patch and insertable medications are also both feasible and described in the present art. Time will be given in a 24 hour clock format to avoid confusion between a.m. and p.m. or indeterminate or duplicate counts 12 00 noon or midnight .

In this principle exemplar a user has consulted a doctor the prescriber and from that prescriber received a treatment plan for a specific medication a standard statin to be taken in a given structure sufficient to establish and maintain a working level of the active ingredient in the patient s bloodstream 24 hours a day with a start date and no end period specified. I.e. the condition is deemed chronic and continuing. Alone or working with a pharmacist the provider the prescriber determines that the medication comes in units having enough active ingredient each to require each single dose to be pill with external constraints requiring that any dose be offset at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal and requiring a separation between doses of 4 8 hours if the patient is awake and 6 12 hours if asleep and limiting the number of doses a day to a maximum of 3 doses. Prescriber provider and patient agree that a 10 minute timing window provides sufficient sustainable accuracy without affecting the working level of the medication in the patient s system. The provider delivered to the patient the invention pre filled for a thirty day one month period ten days past so the treatment regimen is about to start its eleventh day.

The patient having taken her last dose for the tenth day at 22 00 and then gone to bed and stayed asleep awakens at 06 00 and eats breakfast at 07 30. Although the patient could have taken a dose in the first half hour after waking an hour before the meal she failed to do so. Having been asleep her next dose must be put off to no sooner than 09 30 two hours after eating yet be taken no later than 10 00 twelve hours after her last dose . The patient sits down to digest her breakfast and begins to watch television Days of Our Lives in rerun .

The invention sounds an availability alert at 09 25 moving one pill out of its storage volume into its dosage transport and identification tunnel towards the dispensing outlet and verifies with the identifying sensor therein that this pill matches the pattern for the scheduled and prescribed medication being mauve in color CMYK scale 12 31 0 0 and oval as described in the CDC s and pharmaceutical providers respective descriptive references the pattern in the invention s Static Memory which is compared against the identifying sensor s image .

At 10 00 a.m. the patient has failed to activate the delivery element and remove the pill from the dispensing outlet. The invention activates its localized on dispenser visual and audible immediate alerts a flashing red LED and short loud ping tone. After a further five minutes without activation and removal the invention activates again the localized alerts and sends out notifications per the treatment plan s direction which in this case was the provider s standard fallback immediate emails to each of patient and prescriber and a text message to the patient s caregiver for that morning .

The patient responds at 10 10 she had been delayed by trouble with the toilet . She can see both directly and at the visual display there is a pill at the delivery element and confirms with a tap that she has not had a meal within the past two hours she finished at 07 50 . Having satisfied the external constraints the invention releases the lock and the patient takes the first pill from the delivery element.

As she does the invention recalibrates the treatment plan for the change i.e. the delay . Her second daily dose now must move to a timing window between 14 05 and 18 15 i.e. 14 10 offset five minutes early and 18 10 offset five minutes late and her third dose between 22 05 and 0 15 just after midnight on the following date . The invention displays on its visual display the next two dose intervals and times for her to see. Seeing these and knowing that lunch is served starting at 11 30 and dinner at 17 00 the patient decides to eat lunch as soon as it is served. Finishing by 11 55 she then takes her second dose at 14 06 which is within the 10 minute timing window of 14 10 . Having taken the second dose without interruption or problem her third dose is re set to be taken between 18 00 four hours less a five minute timing window overlap and 22 11 six hours plus a five minute timing window gap . After eating dinner early and finishing by 17 30 the patient comes in at 18 05. The invention has already passed and validated a first pill to the dispensing outlet but when queried the patient indicates that she has eaten within the past two hours. She is then prompted to and enters the time she finished eating and the invention reschedules her third dose to between 19 25 the minimum 2 hour offset from her last meal with a five minute timing window overlap and 22 11 the maximum 8 hour plus five minute timing window gap range from her second dose . She comes in at 19 55 the third dose is delivered with validation and the next day s schedule is set. Since the minimum time between any two doses the four hour window which would place the next dose at 23 55 and thus would violate the 3 doses within a day the next dose is moved and set for anytime between 00 06 so beyond the timing window overlap of the 3 dose max per day and 09 55 allowing the 12 hour not 8 hour gap since she will be sleeping .

If the patient unable to sleep had tried to take the medication at 23 30 the invention would a not pass a pill through the dosage tunnel and b give the reason via any or both of the display and speaker using a prerecorded message e.g. You have already taken 3 doses the maximum allowed this day out of the Static Memory . Even if there were a pill remaining the in dispensing outlet the door would not be unlocked.

If instead the medication had required sufficient concentration that each dose comprised 2 pills each time that a dose came due the invention moves both a first and a second pill through the Dose Checking Tunnel to the dispensing outlet again checking and confirming with the identifying sensor between the Medial Counting Sensor and Distal Counting Sensor that each pill matches the pattern for the scheduled and prescribed medication. The patient removes both pills from the dispensing outlet finds a glass of water and takes both.

If a pill is left in the dispensing outlet then the invention notifies the patient that she has not taken all of her medication. If the timing window passes and the second pill still has not been taken then the dispensing outlet relocks it will not unlock until the next dose is to be released the undercount is recorded and the failure to take the full dose is sent to the prescriber and the count for the number of pills to be sent from the storage container through the dosage tunnel is reduced for the next dose only from 2 to 1 to properly account for the hopefully temporarily pill not taken.

Anytime an external constraint lack of or presence of food in the stomach insufficient time interval unacceptable air pollution levels etc. is experienced such that under the treatment plan a dose would not be permitted a patient may initiate an exception request. This would be transmitted from the invention preferably by the external devices as known in the prior art to the prescriber for the prescriber s determination and if an authorized medical professional prescriber or other person determines that the exception should be allowed and issues that permission all of the request and permission are logged and the constraint is for that dose only removed as a barrier and the dose will be allowed to be delivered to the patient. That permission would only be on record and effective for that specific particular dose. Further intervention could see exceptions repeatedly granted or the treatment plan changed but only with the supervision and explicit authorization of the qualified medical decisionmaker s .

The preferred embodiment incorporates memory that records the treatment plan the filling of the storage compartment s the dosage log times intervals dates units and external constraints for each specific medication and all alerts exceptions and errors experienced in the treatment regimen which records can be retrieved by anyone authorized patient provider prescriber or other person pursuant to HIPAA to review the medical treatment ordered for and experienced by the patient. This record will form a daily weekly monthly or other durative period log that can be sent to or retrieved by said authorized parties for more ready access and review through said links to external devices.

If the storage compartment is empty or if the count of total units that have been dispensed falls below a set minimum such that a refill of the medication must be requested before the remaining units are dispensed then the preferred embodiment will send out an alert to each of the user prescriber and provider that a refill is necessary for the treatment plan and regimen to continue. In a further embodiment the notification will include the minimum number of doses and time remaining and in yet a further embodiment the notification will include the maximum number of doses and time remaining to best enable the patient provider and prescriber to integrate the refill process with the current operational state of the treatment regimen.

In the preferred embodiment the storage container is only accessible when an authorized provider of the medication s in the treatment plan enters an unlocking code and when the storage container is either a empty or b below the minimum stocking count as set forth in the treatment plan.

In a further embodiment of the invention each unit of the medication that is fed into the invention passes through a input transfer tube otherwise referenced as the Dose Checking Tunnel that contains a sensor capable of counting and identifying each unit and verifying that each specific unit is actually what is intended to be placed in the storage container and is not a wrong medication a broken unit or a degraded unit.

In a preferred embodiment the cap also has network connectivity via its Remote Link which implements any of the standard means local RF or intermittently via physical connector known to the prior art to connect the Operations Cap and more specifically its Control Set and microprocessor and Static Memory to external computational and communication assets. The Remote Link can use any of the multiple near field wireless communications technologies Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC to communicate with additional devices Smartphones tablets portable computers emergency alert bracelets and or necklaces that then are used to transmit information to the prescriber and provider or in a further alternative has a hardware port e.g. any of the set of serial parallel universal serial bus USB micro USB IrDA Ethernet RS 232 and standard telephone data ports suitable for a wired link to any like connectable device for such network communication. Firmware and software an API Application Program Interface capable of operating programming and reprogramming the invention through these additional devices by standard remote linkages as described and well known in the prior art form part of the invention but are not claimed.

The majority of alterations in the treatment plan can come automatically as the feedback from the user changes the dosage s taken but changes can also be manually entered through the controls by an authorized human intervener. In the preferred embodiment of the invention a stacked set of pre selected treatments whose ordered hierarchy of members are matched to and will handle the majority of experienced contingencies are stored in the Static Memory . Additionally specific alterations to the treatment plan can be individually entered by that authorized human intervener either through direct entry through the controls or by transmitting the pre programmed commands through the remote linkage means.

Another source of alterations in the treatment plan may become necessary from the patient moving from one place to another place whether just travelling taking an extended vacation or relocating the patient s home when the geographic and temporal environment changes i.e. the time zone and or physical location change . In a further embodiment of the invention a GPS connection is used to re set both the time stored in the Static Memory the Clock if different and the treatment plan with the duration from the last dose being held constant but the clock time for the subsequent dosing schedule being readjusted to reflect the new present time. In a further embodiment of the invention the GPS location of the invention is used by any of the user prescriber or provider to match up to the nearest pharmacy which can be authorized and does or will carry the required medication to execute any necessary refills and this information about the new provider is sent to each of the patient prescriber and old and new pharmacies. Similarly a change in prescriber can be searched for and updated for all of the provider new and old prescribers and patient.

In a further embodiment of the invention there is either a combination of the Control Set or a single specific visually and even tactilely differentiated Panic Button that requires only a single but sustained press for at least 2 seconds to avoid incidental and unintentional activations . When the Panic Button is thus activated the invention uses an on board physical location determiner in the preferred embodiment the GPS to determine the physical location of the user and sends this location data and an emergency call out to local emergency services and in a further embodiment the time of activation of the Panic Button.

The preferred embodiment will incorporate on board encryption of data records of the treatment regimen to comply with Federal HIPAA regulations. It will also incorporate as part of the device label an embedded RFID chip and antenna to communicate all medication information from its content s to the authorized additional devices in further compliance with Federal regulations.

The preferred embodiment of the invention will incorporate a microprocessor and a set of sensors memory and power supply as described and well known in the prior art to detect filling of the storage container directional movement of each individual unit through the Dose Checking Tunnel and to specifically identify each individual unit as belonging or not to the prescribed medication s as well as a display audio and visual alert s LEDs colored with at least two different colors to differentially alert the user a set of operational and programming control buttons to enable the different activities and interactions between the invention and the user and in the preferred embodiment both a speaker and microphone to enable audio data transmission between memory and external prescriber providers and the individual patient and user . In a further embodiment additional memory or enhanced communication linkage with a remote support device will provide purely audio alerts and intercommunication for blind users of the invention using any combination of pre recorded modal and state determined and live human voice prompts queries and responses.

A further embodiment of the invention incorporates a placement sensor on the surface of the individual dosage unit with a short range wireless link such as an RFID chip specific to that dosage or a sensor reactive to human digestive tract substances e.g. any of saliva and stomach acid where the absence of the signal when the RFID chip is shielded from detection within the human alimentary system or effecting burst when the sensor encounters the triggering substance indicates that the bearing dosage has in fact entered the patient s digestive system.

In yet a further embodiment the invention further comprises a solar power collection element not shown connected with the battery and the Operations Cap for maintaining the minimal operating power necessary to operate the pattern matching recording and dosage delivering and retrieval efforts.

In yet another and further embodiment the invention further comprises at least one light source not shown providing sufficient illumination to enable night time use independent of external light sources providing such light source through any set of backlighting the display illuminating the dosage retrieval area illuminating the operating control s and illuminating a high lumen LED.

While this invention has been described in reference to illustrative embodiments this description is not to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications and combinations of the illustrative embodiments as well as other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art upon referencing this disclosure. It is therefore intended this disclosure encompass any such modifications or embodiments.

The scope of this invention includes any combination of the elements from the different embodiments disclosed in this specification and is not limited to the specifics of the preferred embodiment or any of the alternative embodiments mentioned above. Individual user configurations and embodiments of this invention may contain all or less than all of the elements disclosed in the specification according to the needs and desires of that user. The claims stated herein should be read as including those elements which are not necessary to the invention yet are in the prior art and are necessary to the overall function of that particular claim and should be read as including to the maximum extent permissible by law known functional equivalents to the elements disclosed in the specification even though those functional equivalents are not exhaustively detailed herein.

Although the present invention has been described chiefly in terms of the presently preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be interpreted as limiting. Various alterations and modifications will no doubt become apparent to those skilled in the art after having read the above disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein and shown in the figures may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration and in one or more locations with intercommunication capabilities and linkages.

In one or more example embodiments the functions methods and or applications described may be implemented in hardware software or firmware executed on a processor or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium or memory. Computer readable media include both non transitory computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can include non transitory computer readable media including RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. A computer readable medium can include a communication signal path. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then these coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium.

The system may include various blocks or modules as discussed above and shown in the figures. As can be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art each of the modules may include one or more of a variety of sub routines procedures definitional statements and macros. Each of the modules may be separately compiled and linked into a single executable program. Therefore the description of each of the modules is used for convenience to describe the functionality of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the processes that are undergone by each of the modules may be redistributed to one of the other modules combined together in a single module or made available in for example a shareable dynamic link library.

The invention may be used in connection with various operating systems such as Linux UNIX or Microsoft Windows . The operating instructions may be written in any conventional programming language such as C C BASIC Pascal or Java and ran under a conventional operating system. The operating instructions may also be written using interpreted languages such as Visual Basic VB.NET Peri Python or Ruby. In addition those skilled in the art also will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and programs actual embodiments of the steps and substeps of methods described in this document may be implemented as electronic hardware data processor software or combination of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative and non exclusive components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described in this document generally in terms of their functionality. Likewise the various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the system for medication management disclosed in this document may be implemented or performed with a general purpose data processor a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described in this document. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be a conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices such as in a non exclusive example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessor s one or more microprocessor s in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends on the particular application and design constraints imposed on an overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the described technology. Such modifications and changes are intended to fall within the scope of the embodiments that are described. It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that features included in one embodiment are interchangeable with other embodiments and that one or more features from a depicted embodiment can be included with other depicted embodiments in any combination. For example any of the various components described herein and or depicted in the figures may be combined interchanged or excluded from other embodiments.

The algorithms and equations herein are not limiting but instructive of the embodiment of the invention and variations which are readily derived through programming or mathematical transformations which are standard or known to the appropriate art are not excluded by omission. Accordingly it is intended that the appended claims are interpreted as covering all alterations and modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention in light of the prior art.

Additionally although claims have been formulated in this application to particular combinations of elements it should be understood that the scope of the disclosure of the present application also includes any single novel element or any novel combination of elements disclosed herein either explicitly or implicitly whether or not it relates to the same invention as presently claimed in any claim and whether or not it mitigates any or all of the same technical problems as does the present invention. The applicants hereby give notice that new claims may be formulated to such features and or combinations of such features during the prosecution of the present application or of any further application derived therefrom.

