---

title: Network classification
abstract: Network DNA may be determined for a computer network that taxonomically classifies the computer network. Network DNA may include derived network DNA components and raw network DNA components. Raw network DNA components may be acquired from local or remote sources. Derived network DNA components may be generated according to derived network DNA component specifications. Derived network DNA component specifications may reference raw network DNA components. Network DNA determined for the computer network may include a network species component capable of indicating network species classifications for computer networks. Network species classifications may include enterprise network, home network and public place network. Network species classifications may be determined as a function of network security, network management and network addressing. One or more network DNA stores may be configured to store network DNA for computer networks. Network DNA stores may store network DNA history as well as current network DNA.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09608883&OS=09608883&RS=09608883
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09608883
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151117
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 212 128 filed Mar. 14 2014 entitled Network Classification now U.S. Pat. No. 9 215 156 issued Dec. 15 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 300 743 filed Nov. 21 2011 entitled Network Classification now U.S. Pat. No. 8 676 969 issued Mar. 18 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 773 681 filed Feb. 6 2004 entitled Network Classification now U.S. Pat. No. 8 126 999 issued Feb. 28 2012. The entirety of each of these afore mentioned applications is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention pertains generally to computer networks and more particularly to computer network categorization.

Computer networks and computer networking have become widespread. Underlying this spread is an increasing variety of computer network types components and configurations. As a result a computer system and or computer system user attempting to maintain computer network connectivity may be subjected to requests for a bewildering array of network configuration parameters or be provided with numerous network characteristics and required to make connectivity decisions either without sufficient information or lack of understanding of the same. Perhaps worse connectivity may be lost not because of technical unavailability but for example through the use of the wrong network connectivity procedure. Attempts to resolve connectivity troubles may be hindered by a lack of readily available network status indicators and or a common vocabulary for communicating with expert help.

Even where network connectivity itself is nominally maintained between computers applications hosted by networked computers may need to adapt to network changes in order for example to avoid performance penalties or to prevent security vulnerabilities. As a result of the vast array of conventional network attributes few applications are able to take each conventional network attribute into account. Networked application users may find themselves in the position of having overcome network connectivity difficulties only to be frustrated by a networked application that was the motivation for establishing connectivity in the first place or to unknowingly expose themselves to a security risk.

While the above issues are particularly encountered by mobile computers and mobile computer users it is common for multiple computer networks to be available to even immobile computers over their lifetime if not concurrently. For example many urban locations have at least one wired network connection as well as one or more wireless network options. Where multiple computer networks are available the decision of which computer network to choose for a particular data packet may be a complex process in which conventional network attributes may not be able to provide the deciding factor.

This section presents a simplified summary of some embodiments of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some embodiments of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In an embodiment of the invention network DNA is determined for a computer network that taxonomically classifies the computer network. Network DNA may include derived network DNA components and raw network DNA components. Raw network DNA components may be acquired from local or remote sources. Each raw network DNA component may correspond to an attribute of the computer network. Derived network DNA components may be generated according to derived network DNA component specifications. Derived network DNA component specifications may reference raw network DNA components.

In an embodiment of the invention network DNA determined for the computer network includes a network species component. In an embodiment of the invention the network species component is capable of indicating network species classifications for computer networks. Network species classifications may include enterprise network home network and public place network. Network species classifications may be determined as a function of network security network management network addressing the network s intended use and other attributes.

In an embodiment of the invention one or more computers are connected to one or more computer networks. One or more network DNA stores may be configured to store network DNA for the computer networks. Network DNA stores may store network DNA history as well as current network DNA.

Prior to proceeding with a description of the various embodiments of the invention a description of a computer in which the various embodiments of the invention may be practiced is now provided. Although not required the invention will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally programs include routines objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The term program as used herein may connote a single program module or multiple program modules acting in concert. The terms computer and computing device as used herein include any device that electronically executes one or more programs such as personal computers PCs hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers tablet PCs laptop computers consumer appliances having a microprocessor or microcontroller routers gateways hubs and the like. The invention may also be employed in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring to an example of a basic configuration for the computer on which aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented is shown. In its most basic configuration the computer typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . The processing unit executes instructions to carry out tasks in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. In carrying out such tasks the processing unit may transmit electronic signals to other parts of the computer and to devices outside of the computer to cause some result. Depending on the exact configuration and type of the computer the memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM or flash memory or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

The computer may also have additional features functionality. For example computer may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information including computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to stored the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . Any such computer storage media may be part of computer .

The computer preferably also contains communications connections that allow the device to communicate with other devices such as remote computer s . A communication connection is an example of a communication medium. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation the term communication media includes wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable medium as used herein includes both computer storage media and communication media.

The computer may also have input devices such as a keyboard keypad mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output devices such as a display speakers a printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be described at length here.

In the description that follows the invention will be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices unless indicated otherwise. As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains it at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures where data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while the invention is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that various of the acts and operation described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

A computer networking environment suitable for incorporating aspects of the invention may include multiple computer networks. Suitable computer networks may be differentiated by a variety of factors for example extent and coverage scope implementation technology node management network security network connectivity node addressing schemes service infrastructure elements network mobility network purpose and intended use network topology and topological location as well as network operational characteristics. Examples of computer network coverage scope designations include personal area network PAN local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN and wide area network WAN . Coverage scope of computer networks may be related to computer network physical extent. Computer networks with different physical extents may employ different implementation technologies.

Broadly implementation technologies may include wireless and wire line. Suitable wireless technologies may include wireless communications protocols such as wireless communication protocols in compliance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.1x series of standards e.g. Wi Fi and wireless communication protocols in compliance with the European Telecommunication Standards Institute ETSI Global System for Mobile communications GSM series of standards including a general packet radio service GPRS an enhanced data GSM environment EDGE and a universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS . Wireless technologies may further include wireless communications protocols in compliance with a code division multiple access CDMA series of standards including CDMA 1 and CDMA2000 as well as the Bluetooth BT series of standards and the like. Wireless technologies may also include switched multi megabit data services SMDS multi channel multipoint distribution services MMDS local multipoint distribution services LMDS ultra wideband UWB wireless low power wireless sensor networks such as ZigBee as well as satellite based wireless communication technologies.

Suitable wire line technologies may include Ethernet e.g. communications protocols in compliance with the IEEE 802.3x series of standards Token ring e.g. communications protocols in compliance with the IEEE 802.5x series of standards as well as dial up communication protocols such as Serial Line Internet Protocol SLIP Point to Point Protocol PPP and Remote Access Service RAS . Wire line technologies may further include integrated services digital network ISDN asynchronous transfer mode ATM protocols cable modems in compliance with data communication standards such as a data over cable service interface specification DOCSIS as well as digital subscriber line xDSL and compatible technologies. Higher layer e.g. International Standards Organization ISO Open System Interconnection OSI model layer communication protocols such as Transmission Control Protocols TCP and Internet Protocols IP are further examples of suitable computer network implementation technologies.

Nodes e.g. computers and infrastructure elements of computer networks may be managed or unmanaged. In an embodiment of the invention managed nodes do grant authority e.g. authority to enforce network policy to computer network administrators of computer networks to which they belong. In an embodiment of the invention each node of a managed computer network is a managed node. Infrastructure elements of unmanaged computer networks may be managed nodes. In an embodiment of the invention unmanaged nodes may form an unmanaged computer network e.g. an ad hoc network where there is no central administrator to enforce higher reliability and security standards for the network. Secure computer networks may include infrastructure elements such as firewalls may require encrypted and authenticated communications e.g. with nodes of other networks and may engage in active intrusion detection.

Computer networks may have varying levels of network connectivity for example full limited or none. Computer networks with limited network connectivity may limit access within the network as well as to other computer networks. Limited network connectivity may occur by design e.g. policy and or filtering through misconfiguration or because of host network component failure e.g. host network adaptor or switch router failure . Computer networks may incorporate different addressing schemes for example internal private addressing or external public addressing. Computer networks incorporating internal addressing may require infrastructure elements capable of network address translation NAT in order to provide connectivity to computer networks incorporating external addressing. Computer networks incorporating internal addressing may benefit from improved security and or privacy.

Computer networks may incorporate service infrastructure elements or fixed services such as domain name services DNS proxy services dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP services network address translation services firewall services and remote authentication dial in user services RADIUS . Some computer networks for example ad hoc mesh or peer to peer computer networks may not incorporate fixed services although they may incorporate distributed analogues for example multicast DNS universal plug and play UPnP link local addresses and link local multicast name resolution LLMNR .

Computer networks may have varying degrees of mobility. Mobile computer networks may have mobile network infrastructure elements such as mobile routers. For example vehicle LANs may include wireless mobile routers with changing public subnet prefixes that provide network address translation for vehicle LAN nodes with unchanging private network addresses.

Computer networks may have an intended use or access policy. For example computer networks may be intended for private use or intended for public use. In an embodiment of the invention computer networks intended for private use have nodes that are owned by an organization that owns the network or subscribes for its use . Computer networks intended for private use may be managed enabling high levels of trust between nodes. Computer networks intended for public use may provide relatively anonymous service to any customer with the ability to pay or even free of charge. In an embodiment of the invention client nodes e.g. customer nodes of computer networks intended for public use are unmanaged. Trust between nodes in computer networks intended for public use may be low and varying demand may make technical management difficult for example resulting in wide variation in quality of service.

Computer networks may have topological placement or location with respect to other computer networks. For example computer networks may be transit core networks e.g. internet service providers that route data traffic to and from other networks or stub networks that route data traffic within themselves as well as to and from transit networks. Operational attributes and characteristics of computer networks i.e. network operational attributes include speed or throughput e.g. from kilobits per second to gigabits per second congestion e.g. low medium high or severe load e.g. low or underutilized medium average or typical high or near capacity and critical or at capacity transmission latency throughput jitter packet loss probability quality of service QoS and operational cost e.g. per byte or per hour .

Computer networks may be premise networks that is private networks at particular locations. For example one or more connected college campus LANs may be a premise network. Computer networks may be proximity networks that is networks established by nodes because of their proximity to one another for example over one or more shared wireless channels. Proximity networks may be single or multi hop and may be of an ad hoc nature established for example upon coming into a classroom or deployment area.

The computer is connected to the computer network . A resource server is also connected to the computer network . For example the resource server may be a file server a directory server a database server a print server a collaboration server a DNS server a provisioning server such as a DHCP server an authentication server such as a RADIUS server or combinations thereof. A Microsoft Windows XP server is an example of a resource server.

A network gateway is connected to the computer network and the computer network . The network gateway may limit or filter the passage of computer network traffic between the computer network and the computer network . For example the network gateway computer may execute firewall software that enforces a computer network traffic policy for example a security policy with regard to computer network traffic arriving at the network gateway .

For example the computer network may be an enterprise network running over an Ethernet LAN and employing an internal addressing scheme. The computers and may each be managed nodes of the computer network . The computer network may be a public inter network such as the Internet. The cloud representing computer network is larger than the clouds representing computer networks and to indicate that the computer network is a transit network for data traffic to and from computer networks and . The computer may have a dial up connection to the computer network .

The computer network may be a public wireless network connected to the computer network by a digital telecommunications link e.g. T1 . The computer may be an unmanaged node of the computer network but for example the computer network may require the computer to register with the resource server before providing the computer with full connectivity to the network . The computer network may be a home LAN able to support a virtual private network VPN between the computer and the resource server across the computer network the network gateway and the computer network . The computer network may be a wireless computer network instantiated ad hoc by the computers and . In this example computer networking environment the computer network is not connected to the other computer networks . However if for example the computer established a connection with the computer network then the computer may be capable of acting as a bridge or network gateway for the computer network .

The network DNA module may dynamically gather network attributes from the computer hardware the operating system and the application programs . In an embodiment of the invention the network DNA module resides on one or more computers. Each computer may be connected to one or more computer networks. The network DNA module may determine network DNA for each connected computer network. Network DNA may taxonomically classify the associated computer network. The network DNA for a particular computer network may change over time but in an embodiment of the invention such changes are infrequent. Computer network connections e.g. communication connections of need not be active in order for the network DNA module to determine network DNA for associated computer networks. The network DNA module may provide network DNA for example upon request or by publishing network DNA events to interested subscribers.

The network DNA module may be incorporated into or may utilize e.g. dynamically gather network attributes with a network application programming interface for example the Windows Sockets 2 Winsock network application programming interface API as detailed in the Windows Sockets 2 section of the February 2003 Microsoft Windows Platform Software Development Kit SDK documentation in the Microsoft Developer Network MSDN Library. The network DNA module may be incorporated into or may utilize e.g. dynamically gather network attributes from a network location awareness module for example the network location awareness module detailed by the Network Location Awareness Service Provider section of the February 2003 Microsoft Windows Platform SDK documentation in the MSDN Library. Although not shown in the network application programming interface and or the network location awareness module may be incorporated into the operating system .

The network DNA acquirer may acquire raw network DNA component values from the computer hardware the operating system the application programs and from network DNA modules located on remote computers . The network DNA acquirer may acquire raw network DNA component values from both trusted e.g. authenticated and untrusted sources. Some computer networks may incorporate network DNA provisioning servers to provide an explicit and efficient source of network DNA. Conventional provisioning schemas may be enhanced with network DNA.

Raw network DNA component values may be simple copies of static values samples of dynamically changing values or the like. Examples of raw network DNA components include IP addresses domain names verified presence of network infrastructure elements e.g. DNS servers authentication servers proxy servers NAT successful authentication parameters received from DHCP servers e.g. subnet mask communications media type e.g. wireless or wire line network traffic analysis e.g. source address set or statistical traffic fingerprint match cost service provider roaming agreements nominal available communications bandwidth measured available communications bandwidth logical and physical network location. Raw network DNA components may be any suitable e.g. acquirable conventional computer network attribute. Raw network DNA components may be input by a computer user utilizing a suitable user interface mechanism.

The network DNA acquirer may update the raw network DNA components area of the current network DNA store. The network DNA acquirer may copy current network DNA component values to the network DNA history store before updating them. The network DNA acquirer may notify the network DNA generator of updates to the current network DNA store.

The network DNA generator may determine derived network DNA component values from raw network DNA component value. The network DNA generator may determine derived network DNA component values according to the derived network DNA component specifications . For example each of the derived network DNA component specifications may specify a linear or non linear combination and or transformation of one or more raw network DNA component values. The derived raw network DNA component dependency lists may include for each derived network DNA component a list of raw network DNA components required to determine the derived network DNA component and or for each raw network DNA component a list of derived network DNA components that depend upon the raw network DNA component e.g. the raw network DNA component is part of the derived network DNA component specifications for the derived network DNA components . The network DNA generator may update the derived network DNA components area of the current network DNA store. The network DNA generator may copy current network DNA component values to the network DNA history store before updating them.

The network DNA policy enforcer may enforce network DNA policies stored in the network DNA policy store . The network DNA policies may depend upon network DNA stored in the current network DNA and or network DNA history stores for example network DNA policy actions may be triggered by network DNA components taking on particular values or crossing particular thresholds. The network DNA application programming interface may enable for example application programs to edit network DNA policies as well as get current network DNA and network DNA history.

Before describing procedures performed by the network DNA module in more detail it will be helpful to describe further details of network DNA network DNA policies and the network DNA application programming interface .

In this example the network species component is associated with a network species confidence the network name component is associated with a network name confidence the network cost component is associated with a network cost confidence the core access component is associated with a core access confidence the core addressing component is associated with a core addressing confidence the network security component is associated with a network security confidence and the network technology component is associated with a network technology confidence . Each network DNA confidence may indicate a level of confidence e.g. a statistical confidence in the accuracy and or precision of the associated network DNA component value s . Network DNA confidence levels may be updated by the network DNA generator when derived network DNA components are updated.

The network species component of the network DNA may indicate a network class or species for the associated computer network. For example the network species component may indicate that the associated computer network is an enterprise network a home network or a public place public network. The network species component of the network DNA may be one of the derived network DNA components and may be associated with one or more of the derived network DNA component specifications .

For example one of the derived network DNA component specifications associated with the network species component may specify that the network species component is to indicate that the associated computer network is an enterprise network if the attributes of the associated computer network include a specified combination of is a secure network i.e. has good network security is a managed network i.e. has good network management provides connectivity to one or more specified enterprise resources e.g. has good local area network connectivity includes wireless LAN technology is a mobile network i.e. has good network mobility is a private network e.g. utilizes internal network addressing is a premise network and is not a proximity network. Examples of computer networks that may have one or more combinations of such computer network attributes include corporate computer networks e.g. for employees only virtual private networks fleet networks e.g. fleet of corporate owned vehicles managed community networks and warehouse networks.

The derived network DNA component specification may specify that the network species component is to indicate that the associated computer network is a home network if the attributes of the associated computer network include a specified combination of is an insecure network i.e. has poor network security is an unmanaged network i.e. has poor network management provides ad hoc and or limited connectivity between network nodes and other computer networks e.g. the internet includes PAN LAN and or wireless LAN technology is not a mobile network i.e. has poor network mobility is a private network e.g. utilizes internal network addressing is a premise network or a proximity network. Examples of computer networks that may have one or more combinations of such computer network attributes include home networks and residential networks.

The derived network DNA component specification may specify that the network species component is to indicate that the associated computer network is a public place network if the attributes of the associated computer network include a specified combination of is an insecure network is an unmanaged network includes PAN LAN wireless LAN and or wireless WAN technology provides connectivity to other computer networks e.g. the internet is not a mobile network has an associated access cost is not a private network is not a premise network and is not a proximity network. Examples of computer networks that may have one or more combinations of such computer network attributes include computer networks at airports restaurants and coffee houses convention centers hotels particularly hotel lobbies public libraries corporate guest networks and some wireless wide area networks.

As shown in the above examples derived network DNA component specifications need not be mutually exclusive. Each derived network DNA component specification may include a network DNA confidence scoring specification. For example a particular derived network DNA component specification may reference multiple raw network DNA components. The associated network DNA confidence scoring specification may specify that missing e.g. not yet acquired or unverified e.g. acquired from untrusted sources raw network DNA components result in a lower confidence and that some raw network DNA components have greater influence on confidence level than others. Where a total number of different derived network DNA component values is reasonable e.g. but depending upon computer processing power each different value may have an associated confidence score. In such a case requests for the value of a particular derived network DNA component may result in responses including one or more values with highest associated confidence scores.

The network name component of the network DNA may indicate a network name and or network identifier for the associated computer network. The network name may for example be a simple alphanumeric character string or a more complex data structure. The network name may include for example a globally unique identifier GUID that uniquely identifies the associated computer network. However neither the network name component nor network DNA as a whole need be unique across computer networks. As for each derived network DNA component and network name component attributes and values may be specified by one or more of the derived network DNA component specifications . Where probabilistic network name resolution is utilized the network name confidence may indicate for example a confidence level of the determination so far due to progress of the probabilistic name resolution process.

The network cost component of the network DNA may indicate historical future and current costs associated with utilizing the associated computer network. For example the network cost component may reference one or more computer network usage rate plans including per byte per hour and other suitable bandwidth time period and or network resource pricing options. Cost determination may be probabilistic for example approximation techniques may be utilized where cost determination is complex in which case the network cost confidence may indicate a margin of error.

The core access component of the network DNA may indicate to what degree the associated computer network provides access to core or transit networks e.g. the internet . For example the core access component may indicate that authentication with a particular resource server is required for core network access. Core network access determination may be probabilistic and or progressive particularly from computers connected to unmanaged networks. The core access confidence may indicate the progress and or degree of achievement of the determination procedure.

The core addressing component of the network DNA may indicate whether the associated computer network utilizes internal private or external public or core addressing. Internal addressing may reduce a set of suitable communications protocols available to applications. Core addressing determination may be probabilistic and or progressive or the core addressing confidence may simply indicate a confirmed or unconfirmed status.

The network security component of the network DNA may indicate one or more security mechanisms available in the associated computer network as well as for example which security mechanisms are mandatory for computers connected to the associated computer network. For example the network security component may indicate that authentication with one or more network infrastructure elements or resource servers is mandatory and that encryption is available but optional. The network security component may also reference suitable authentication credentials and or encryption keys. Determination of available and or mandatory security mechanisms may be probabilistic and or progressive for example additional encryption options may become available following authentication. The network security confidence may indicate determination progress and or confidence in the integrity of active security mechanisms in the associated computer network.

The network technology component of the network DNA may indicate one or more network implementation technologies utilized by the associated computer network. The network technology indication may include coarse grained classifications for example wireless or wire line as well as fine grained classifications for example IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b or IEEE 802.16a wireless. Determination of network technology classifications may be probabilistic and or progressive. The network technology confidence may include a confidence level for each determined network technology classification.

Network DNA policies may depend upon network DNA . depicts an example network DNA policy in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The example network DNA policy includes a network DNA policy name a network DNA policy condition a network DNA policy action and network DNA policy dependency lists . The network DNA policy dependency lists include a derived network DNA components dependency list and a raw network DNA components dependency list .

The network DNA policy name may be a unique name e.g. alphanumeric character string or a globally unique identifier of the network DNA policy . The network DNA policy name may serve as an identifier and or reference for the network DNA policy . A condition specified by the network DNA policy condition may reference derived network DNA components and or raw network DNA components of current network DNA and or network DNA history . An action specified by the network DNA policy action may be initiated by the network DNA module if the condition specified by the network DNA policy condition is satisfied.

The network DNA policy dependency lists may list system aspects e.g. components modules resource servers that the network DNA policy depends upon in order to determine if the network DNA policy condition is satisfied and or to initiate the network DNA policy action . The derived network DNA components dependency list may list derived network DNA components referenced by the network DNA policy condition . The raw network DNA components dependency list may list raw network DNA components referenced by the network DNA policy condition .

Examples of network DNA policies include polices for adapting to network changes and for selecting between multiple available networks. Network DNA policies may adapt system behavior in response to network DNA for example changes in the network technology component of the network DNA e.g. when switching computer networks may trigger reconfiguration of application programs and or the operating system to avoid performance penalties. For example a messaging application may download a specified portion of a message e.g. as opposed to the whole message or synchronize with a messaging server less aggressively e.g. less often for certain network technology classifications and or subcomponent values.

Changes in the network security component of the network DNA e.g. when switching computer networks may likewise trigger reconfiguration of application programs and or the operating system to reduce the likelihood of security vulnerabilities. One or more network DNA policies may determine a choice between multiple available networks for example based on a combination of the network cost and core access components of the network DNA . Additional examples of network DNA components that may be utilized in deciding between multiple available networks or any suitable network DNA policy decision include network security speed load latency congestion radio frequency interference e.g. noise and network operator not necessarily of the first hop for example the operator owner of a GPRS network supplying connectivity to a Wi Fi hotspot . While network DNA policies may reduce the probability of user intervention choice between multiple computer networks need not be fully automated. Computer users may be presented with a filtered list of possible choices.

Network DNA policies may specify that system security settings be reconfigured depending on the network species component of the network DNA . A computer with a particular network DNA policy that is connected to a home or public network as indicated by the network species may automatically attempt to establish a VPN connection to a specified enterprise network so that for example the computer has access to enterprise network resource and or to become managed. Another network DNA policy may specify that bridging or inter network routing be disabled if a computer with the policy is for example connected to both an enterprise network and a home or public network as indicated by the network species .

The network DNA application programming interface may provide application programs and operating system access to network DNA and network DNA policies. In an embodiment of the invention a human oriented characteristic of network DNA makes network DNA particularly suited for network mapping e.g. on graphical user interfaces and network support applications e.g. enterprise help desk troubleshooting diagnostics and security breach post mortem . Network DNA may enhance computer user and application developer understanding of connected computer networks which may enhance computer user experience and efficiency. In an embodiment of the invention network DNA may be logged and communicated between computer network nodes to enhance both automatically and manually managed aspects of computer network efficiency for example reducing the likelihood of over under allocation of upstream bandwidth by streaming data sources.

The edit network DNA policy application programming interface element may enable computer system modules and components to create read update delete and temporarily disable or enable network DNA policies of the network DNA module for example network DNA policies stored in the network DNA policy store . Interface specification parameters may include one or more network DNA policies e.g. as described above with reference to network DNA policy actions network DNA policy conditions network DNA policy names a date and time for a particular policy or policy set to take effect a date and time range for the policy to remain in effect and or a date and time range for the policy to remain disabled and an event that triggers enabling or disabling of a particular policy. For example network DNA policy conditions may be specified with a structured query language an object oriented language e.g. an object query language a scripting language e.g. Microsoft VBSCRIPT or any suitable condition specification language and network DNA policy actions may be specified with a database stored procedure language an object oriented language a scripting language or any suitable action specification language.

The subscribe to network DNA events application programming interface element may enable computer system modules and components to subscribe to and unsubscribe from events published by the network DNA module . Interface specification parameters may include one or more network DNA event specifications e.g. event identifiers event range specifications and one or more subscription addresses e.g. reference to a network DNA event delivery mechanism . Examples of network DNA events published by the network DNA module include current network DNA changes network DNA policy changes occurrence of network DNA policy enforcement actions and any suitable network DNA module change event.

The get current network DNA application programming interface element may enable computer system modules and components to retrieve a copy of the current network DNA . Interface specification parameters may include a set of network DNA components to retrieve and parallel programming multithreaded behavior specifiers such as wait and timeout flags. The get current network DNA history application programming interface element may enable computer system modules and components to retrieve a copy of network DNA history . Interface specification parameters may include a set of network DNA components to retrieve a range e.g. a data and time range of network DNA history entries to retrieve and parallel programming multithreaded behavior specifiers such as wait and timeout flags.

The edit derived network DNA component specifications application program interface element may enable computer system modules and components to create read update and delete derived network DNA component specifications . Interface specification parameters may include one or more derived network DNA component specifications e.g. as described above with reference to . For example derived network DNA component specifications may be specified with a structured query language an object oriented language a scripting language a database stored procedure language or any suitable component specification language.

Having described structural aspects of the network DNA module above behavioral aspects of the network DNA module are now described in more detail.

The network DNA acquirer may dynamically acquire raw network DNA components. The number of potential raw network DNA components to be acquired acquisition targets may be large. The network DNA acquirer may prioritize acquisition targets according to network DNA policy needs. For example network DNA policies in the network DNA policy store may be ordered and the network DNA acquirer may acquire network DNA components referenced by network DNA policies in accord with that order. Some raw network DNA components may require periodic re acquisition e.g. every 5 seconds and may be given priority to prevent them becoming stale in the current network DNA store. Some raw network DNA components may require asynchronous acquisition triggered by an event. Acquisition of some raw network DNA components may need to take place after others for example following successful authentication with a network authentication server and thus may be prioritized accordingly.

At step a raw network DNA acquisition priority list is generated. For example the network DNA acquirer may query the network DNA policy store for the raw network DNA components dependency list of each active network DNA policy. In addition the network DNA acquirer may determine any raw network DNA components required by each member of the derived network DNA acquisition priority list. For example the network DNA acquirer may query the network DNA generator for the associated derived raw network DNA component dependency lists . If the network DNA policies are ordered then the raw network DNA components may be added to the raw network DNA acquisition priority list in accord with that order. Each raw network DNA component may have an associated acquisition difficulty for example related to acquisition time or required refresh rate. Acquisition order may be modified so that the most easily acquired raw network DNA components tend to be acquired before components that are more difficult to acquire. In an embodiment of the invention step is performed as an integral part of step .

At step a next acquisition target may be selected from the raw network DNA acquisition priority list. At step an attempt is made to acquire the selected acquisition target as described above with reference to . There may be a limited time period allocated for the acquisition of each target. At step a determination is made as to whether the selected acquisition target was successfully acquired. If the target was successfully acquired then the procedure progresses to step otherwise the procedure progresses to step .

At step the acquired raw network DNA component may be stored in the raw network DNA components area of the current network DNA and the associated reference removed from the raw network DNA acquisition priority list. At step the network DNA generator may be notified of the successful acquisition. For example the network DNA acquirer may publish a raw network DNA acquisition event. At step a length of the raw network DNA acquisition priority list may be checked. If the list is empty then there are no current acquisition targets and the procedure exits otherwise the procedure returns to step to select the next acquisition target.

The procedure depicted in may be invoked asynchronously or for example synchronously in accordance with a schedule. In the case of asynchronous acquisition of one or more raw network DNA components triggered by an event i.e. a target acquisition event the target acquisition event may specify one or more raw network DNA components to be acquired. The target acquisition event may even specify the raw network DNA acquisition priority list of step which may enable step and step to be skipped. If the target acquisition event specifies a single raw network DNA component to be asynchronously acquired step step and step may also be skipped. depicts example steps that may be performed to asynchronously acquire a single raw network DNA component in accordance with an embodiment of the invention beginning with step where the target acquisition event is generated and then progressing to a subset of steps similar to those described with reference to .

The network DNA generator may generate derived network DNA component values asynchronously e.g. in response to raw network DNA acquisition events or in accordance with a network DNA generation schedule. depicts example steps that may be performed to generate network DNA in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. At step a derived network DNA refresh list is generated. For example the network DNA generator may be notified of raw network DNA component updates and may add to the refresh list each derived network DNA component that depends upon a changed raw network DNA component e.g. updated since a previous derived network DNA refresh . The derived raw network DNA component dependency lists may specify dependencies between derived and raw network DNA components.

At step a next refresh target i.e. a particular derived network DNA component may be selected from the derived network DNA refresh list. At step a value of the selected derived network DNA component may be derived i.e. determined in accordance with associated derived network DNA component specifications . For example the network DNA generator may retrieve current values of raw network DNA components and transform them as specified by a particular derived network DNA component specification. At step the derived network DNA refresh list is checked for more refresh targets. If there are more refresh targets then the procedure returns to step to select the next target otherwise the procedure exits.

The network DNA policy enforcer may enforce network DNA policies asynchronously e.g. in response to current network DNA update events or in accordance with a network DNA policy enforcement schedule. depicts example steps that may be performed to enforce network DNA policies in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. At step the procedure resides in a wait state. The procedure may leave the wait state for example if a scheduled time period elapses and or if an interesting i.e. policy affecting network DNA module event e.g. published event occurs.

At step a next active network DNA policy is selected for example from the network DNA policy store . The selected network DNA policy may be associated with one or more derived network DNA components and or one or more raw network DNA components for example as listed in the derived network DNA components dependency list and the raw network DNA components dependency list of the selected network DNA policy . At step it may be determined whether sufficient network DNA components associated with the selected network DNA policy have been acquired for example by the network DNA acquirer and stored in the current network DNA store. For example sufficient network DNA components may have been acquired if a confidence level e.g. confidence levels and of associated with each network DNA component referenced by the selected network DNA policy has a value greater than zero or at least one confidence level is greater than a sufficient network DNA acquisition threshold e.g. 50 or some statistical function e.g. average of the confidence levels is greater than the sufficient network DNA acquisition threshold. If sufficient network DNA components have been acquired then the procedure progresses to step otherwise the selected network DNA policy is not tested and the procedure progresses to step .

At step the network DNA policy condition of the selected network DNA policy may be tested. For example if the network DNA policy condition is specified with a structured query language statement then the structured query language statement may be submitted to a structured query language interpreter. If the network DNA policy condition is satisfied e.g. if an expression specified by the network DNA policy condition evaluates to Boolean true or non NULL then the procedure progresses to step otherwise the network DNA policy action of the selected network DNA policy is not performed and the procedure progresses to step .

At step execution of the network DNA policy action of the network DNA policy is initiated. For example the network DNA policy enforcer may make a procedure call local or remote invoke a method of a program object send a message to a program module or a system user or administrator and or initiate any suitable programmatic technique for performing an action on a computer e.g. the computer of . At step it is determined whether there are more active network DNA policies to test. If there are more active network DNA policies to test this cycle then the procedure returns to step to select the next active network DNA policy. Otherwise the procedure returns to step and waits for the next scheduled or asynchronous wake up event.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

