---

title: Apparatus and methods of identity management in a multi-network system
abstract: Apparatus and methods of communication include receiving, at a device, a device-specific identifier and a credential associated with an issuing identity provider, wherein an identity of the device is capable of authentication by the identity provider based on the device-specific identifier and the credential. Further, the aspects include storing the device-specific identifier and the credential in a secure environment on the device. Additionally, the device-specific identifier is capable of being associated with different subscriber service accounts each with a different one of a plurality of service providers. The described aspects also include apparatus and methods of an identity provider and a provisioning provider for managing identities in a multiple network environment, and apparatus and methods of a service provider for providing the device with access to a service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661666&OS=09661666&RS=09661666
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09661666
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151023
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 496 519 entitled Apparatus and Methods of Identity Management in a Multi Network System filed Jun. 13 2011 and is a divisional of Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 493 974 entitled Apparatus and Methods of Identity Management in a Multi Network System filed Jun. 11 2012. Both the Provisional Application No. 61 496 519 and the Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 493 974 are assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present applications relates to a communication network and more particularly to management of device related identifiers in a communication network.

In current cellular systems individual carriers own the device subscriber identity e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity or IMSI . In order to enable widespread pre provisioned wireless data connectivity in cellular networks worldwide for a variety of wireless devices device credentials must be allocated and programmed into the devices and also in the network elements that control access to the cellular networks.

Moreover newly developed and large scale mobile data communications service implementations require the pre provisioning of millions of wireless devices at the factory where at some point in time the devices will need to be activated to access wireless networks around the world.

Thus there remains a need in the art for pre provisioning new multi function devices with multiple mobile connectivity alternatives.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One aspect relates to a method of communication. The method may include receiving from an identifier ID client on a wireless device a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider. In addition the method may include generating the application specific identifier and mapping the application specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. The method may also include sending the application specific identifier to the wireless device. The method may further include receiving a request to activate connectivity for the application specific identifier from the application service provider that sent the request to activate in response to receiving a request for service from the wireless device. Moreover the method may include performing a lookup for the device identifier based on the received application specific identifier in the request to activate and sending a connectivity request with the device identifier from the lookup to a network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device.

Another aspect relates to at least one processor configured for communication. The processor may include a first module for receiving from an identifier ID client on a wireless device a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider. The processor may also include a second module for generating the application specific identifier. In addition the processor may include a third module for mapping the application specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. The processor may include a fourth module for sending the application specific identifier to the wireless device. The processor may further include a fifth module for receiving a request to activate connectivity for the application specific identifier from the application service provider that sent the request to activate in response to receiving a request for service from the wireless device. The processor may also include a sixth module for performing a lookup for the device identifier based on the received application specific identifier in the request to activate. The processor may additionally include a seventh module for sending a connectivity request with the device identifier from the lookup to a network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device.

Yet another aspect relates to a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium including at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from an identifier ID client on a wireless device a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to generate the application specific identifier. The computer readable medium may additionally include at least one instruction for causing the computer to map the application specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device and at least one instruction for causing the computer to send the application specific identifier to the wireless device. The computer readable medium may further include at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive a request to activate connectivity for the application specific identifier from the application service provider that sent the request to activate in response to receiving a request for service from the wireless device. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to perform a lookup for the device identifier based on the received application specific identifier in the request to activate. In addition the computer readable medium may include at least one instruction for causing the computer to send a connectivity request with the device identifier from the lookup to a network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus may include means for receiving from an identifier ID client on a wireless device a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider and means for generating the application specific identifier. The apparatus may further include means for mapping the application specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. The apparatus may also include means for sending the application specific identifier to the wireless device and means for receiving a request to activate connectivity for the application specific identifier from the application service provider that sent the request to activate in response to receiving a request for service from the wireless device. The apparatus may also include means for performing a lookup for the device identifier based on the received application specific identifier in the request to activate. Moreover the apparatus may also include means for sending a connectivity request with the device identifier from the lookup to a network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device.

Yet another aspect relates to an apparatus for communication. The apparatus may include a client identifier provider operable to receive from an identifier ID client on a wireless device a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider generate the application specific identifier map the application specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device and send the application specific identifier to the wireless device and a network services connection interface operable to receive a request to activate connectivity for the application specific identifier from the application service provider that sent the request to activate in response to receiving a request for service from the wireless device perform a lookup for the device identifier based on the received application specific identifier in the request to activate and send a connectivity request with the device identifier from the lookup to a network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device.

Still another aspect relates to a method of communication. The method may include receiving from an identifier ID client on a wireless device an identifier request for a network specific identifier corresponding to a network service provider with an initial connection to the wireless device. The method may also include generating the network specific identifier. The method may further include mapping the network specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. In addition the method may include sending the network specific identifier to the wireless device. The method may also include receiving an activation request to activate connectivity with the network service provider from an application service provider wherein the activation request is in response to the application service provider receiving a service request for service from the wireless device. The method may also include performing a lookup for the network specific identifier based on the received activation request. Moreover the method may include sending a connectivity request with the network specific identifier from the lookup to the network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device associated with the network specific identifier.

Another aspect relates to at least one processor configured for communication. The processor may include a first module for receiving from an identifier ID client on a wireless device an identifier request for a network specific identifier corresponding to a network service provider with an initial connection to the wireless device. The processor may also include a second module for generating the network specific identifier. The processor may additionally include a third module for mapping the network specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. The processor may also include a fourth module for sending the network specific identifier to the wireless device. The processor may further include a fifth module for receiving an activation request to activate connectivity with the network service provider from an application service provider wherein the activation request is in response to the application service provider receiving a service request for service from the wireless device. In addition the processor may also include a sixth module for performing a lookup for the network specific identifier based on the received activation request. The processor may also include a seventh module for sending a connectivity request with the network specific identifier from the lookup to the network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device associated with the network specific identifier.

Yet another aspect relates to a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium including at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from an identifier ID client on a wireless device an identifier request for a network specific identifier corresponding to a network service provider with an initial connection to the wireless device. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to generate the network specific identifier. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to map the network specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. In addition the computer readable medium at least one instruction for causing the computer to send the network specific identifier to the wireless device. The computer readable medium may further include at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive an activation request to activate connectivity with the network service provider from an application service provider wherein the activation request is in response to the application service provider receiving a service request for service from the wireless device. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to perform a lookup for the network specific identifier based on the received activation request. Moreover the computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to send a connectivity request with the network specific identifier from the lookup to the network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device associated with the network specific identifier.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus may include means for receiving from an identifier ID client on a wireless device an identifier request for a network specific identifier corresponding to a network service provider with an initial connection to the wireless device. The apparatus may additionally include means for generating the network specific identifier and means for mapping the network specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. The apparatus may also include means for sending the network specific identifier to the wireless device and means for receiving an activation request to activate connectivity with the network service provider from an application service provider wherein the activation request is in response to the application service provider receiving a service request for service from the wireless device. The apparatus may further include means for performing a lookup for the network specific identifier based on the received activation request. The apparatus may also include means for sending a connectivity request with the network specific identifier from the lookup to the network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device associated with the network specific identifier.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus for communication. The apparatus may include a network identifier provider operable to receive from an identifier ID client on a wireless device an identifier request for a network specific identifier corresponding to a network service provider with an initial connection to the wireless device generate the network specific identifier map the network specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device and send the network specific identifier to the wireless device and a network services connection interface operable to receive an activation request to activate connectivity with the network service provider from an application service provider wherein the activation request is in response to the application service provider receiving a service request for service from the wireless device perform a lookup for the network specific identifier based on the received activation request and send a connectivity request with the network specific identifier from the lookup to the network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device associated with the network specific identifier.

Yet another aspect relates to a method for providing services. The method may include receiving from a wireless device a service request including an application specific identifier corresponding to an application on the wireless device. The method may also include determining a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device. In addition the method may include sending to an identity provider a request to activate connectivity for the data connectivity plan.

Another aspect relates to at least one processor configured for providing services. The processor may include a first module for receiving from a wireless device a service request including an application specific identifier corresponding to an application on the wireless device. The processor may additionally include a second module for determining a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device. The processor may also include a third module for sending to an identity provider a request to activate connectivity for the data connectivity plan.

Another aspect relates to a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium including at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from a wireless device a service request including an application specific identifier corresponding to an application on the wireless device. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to determine a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device. The computer readable medium may further include at least one instruction for causing the computer to send to an identity provider a request to activate connectivity for the data connectivity plan.

Still another aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus may include means for receiving from a wireless device a service request including an application specific identifier corresponding to an application on the wireless device. The apparatus may also include means for determining a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device. In addition the apparatus may include means for sending to an identity provider a request to activate connectivity for the data connectivity plan.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus for providing services. The apparatus may include an access client operable to receive from a wireless device a service request including an application specific identifier corresponding to an application on the wireless device determine a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device and send to an identity provider a request to activate connectivity for the data connectivity plan.

Another aspect relates to a method for providing data connectivity. The method may include receiving from an identity provider a connectivity request to provide connectivity to a wireless device the connectivity request including a device identifier of the wireless device and data connectivity plan information for the connectivity. In addition the method may include providing the connectivity to the wireless device based upon the received data connectivity plan information.

Yet another aspect relates to at least one processor configured for providing data connectivity. The processor may include a first module for receiving from an identity provider a connectivity request to provide connectivity to a wireless device the connectivity request including a device identifier of the wireless device and data connectivity plan information for the connectivity. The processor may further include a second module for providing the connectivity to the wireless device based upon the received data connectivity plan information.

Another aspect relates to a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium including at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from an identity provider a connectivity request to provide connectivity to a wireless device the connectivity request including a device identifier of the wireless device and data connectivity plan information for the connectivity. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to provide the connectivity to the wireless device based upon the received data connectivity plan information.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus may include means for receiving from an identity provider a connectivity request to provide connectivity to a wireless device the connectivity request including a device identifier of the wireless device and data connectivity plan information for the connectivity. The apparatus may further include means for providing the connectivity to the wireless device based upon the received data connectivity plan information.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus for providing data connectivity. The apparatus may include an access client operable to receive from an identity provider a connectivity request to provide connectivity to a wireless device the connectivity request including a device identifier of the wireless device and data connectivity plan information for the connectivity and provide the connectivity to the wireless device based upon the received data connectivity plan information.

Still another aspect relates to a method for communication. The method may include receiving from an application a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider for the application. The method may also include sending to an identity provider the request for the application specific identifier. In addition the method may include receiving from the identity provider the application specific identifier. The method may also include sending to the application service provider a service request to use with the application specific identifier and a network service provider. The method may further include receiving from the network service provider data connectivity to access the services provided by the application service provider for the application.

Another aspect relates to at least one processor configured for communication. The processor may include a first module for receiving from an application a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider for the application. The processor may also include a second module for sending to an identity provider the request for the application specific identifier. In addition the processor may include a third module for receiving from the identity provider the application specific identifier. The processor may further include a fourth module for sending to the application service provider a service request to use with the application specific identifier and a network service provider. Moreover the processor may include a fifth module for receiving from the network service provider data connectivity to access the services provided by the application service provider for the application.

Another aspect relates to a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium including at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from an application a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider for the application. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to send to an identity provider the request for the application specific identifier. The computer readable medium may additionally include at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive from the identity provider the application specific identifier. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction for causing the computer to send to the application service provider a service request to use with the application specific identifier and a network service provider. In addition the computer readable medium may include at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive from the network service provider data connectivity to access the services provided by the application service provider for the application.

Yet another aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus may include means for receiving from an application a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider for the application. The apparatus may also include means for sending to an identity provider the request for the application specific identifier. The apparatus may further include means for receiving from the identity provider the application specific identifier. In addition the apparatus may include means for sending to the application service provider a service request to use with the application specific identifier and a network service provider. Moreover the apparatus may include means for receiving from the network service provider data connectivity to access the services provided by the application service provider for the application.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus for communication. The apparatus may include an identifier client operable to receive from an application a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider for the application send to an identity provider the request for the application specific identifier and receive from the identity provider the application specific identifier. In addition the apparatus may include a client services connection interface operable to send to the application service provider a service request to use with the application specific identifier and a network service provider. The apparatus may also include a network services connection interface operable to receive from the network service provider data connectivity to access the services provided by the application service provider for the application.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

The described apparatus and methods in an aspect establish a device or device maker centric cellular data ecosystem. In this model the owner of the device subscriber identity can be a provider of all or a portion of the device as opposed to a network service provider. In further aspects the device is able to seamlessly operate across multiple wireless network service providers or across multiple application service providers respectively based on a single device specific network identifier e.g. a network service subscriber identity or a single device specific client identifier e.g. an application service subscriber identity each of which is verifiable via an independent network or client application identity service provider which is trusted by each network application service provider. As such the single device specific network service subscriber identity and the single device specific application service subscriber identity respectively can be associated with different network and application service subscriber accounts corresponding to different network and application service providers thereby allowing the respective single identity to act as a universal identity across multiple service providers.

Referring to in one aspect a communication system includes a device having a unique device specific network identifier NID and a unique device specific client identifier CID respectively associated with assigned from and verifiable through a network identifier provider component NIDP and a client identifier provider component CIDP . NID or a representation or derivation thereof may be utilized for example to verify an identity of device for receiving network communication services. For instance NID may be similar to or may act as or may include an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI a Temporary IMSI TIMSI or any other form of network subscriber identification. CID or a representation or derivation thereof may be utilized for example to verify an identity of device for application level services. For example CID may allow an application server to verify an identity of device before interacting with a corresponding client application executing on device . NIDP and CIDP may be separate network entities or different functional components within a single network entity that obtain or generate NIDs and CIDs respectively and manage assignment of the NIDs and CIDs to devices. Moreover although illustrates a single NIDP and a single CIDP communication system may include any number of NIDPs and CIDPs .

In an aspect NIDP is trusted by and or directly accessible to a plurality of network service providers for verifying the authenticity of device specific NID or a representation or derivation thereof and hence verifying an identity of device and or a subscriber services account corresponding to device . In an aspect for example the plurality of network service providers may provide mobile broadband connectivity services. As such in this aspect a single device specific NID may independently provide a basis for verifying an identity of device for use in network authorization and access to the plurality of network service providers . Accordingly NIDP may be referred to as a universal network identifier provider and NID may be referred to as a universal network subscriber identifier as device specific NID is not owned or controlled by a single network service provider but is owned and controlled independently from the plurality of network service providers yet provides a universal or common basis for identity verification for each of the plurality of network service providers . In other words a single device specific NID may be associated with a respective network service subscriber account of each of the plurality of network service providers thereby enabling device to wirelessly communicate via a network associated with any of the plurality of network service providers .

In an aspect while the enablement of connecting via a network associated with any of the plurality of the network service providers is based on the verification of the device specific NID by the NIPD the actual network services to be received by the device from each of the respective network service provider are based on the status of the service subscriber account at the respective network service provider. The status of the service subscriber account at the respective network service providers may not be known by the NIPD .

In another aspect CIDP is trusted by and or directly accessible to a plurality of application service providers for verifying the authenticity of client specific CID or a representation or derivation thereof and hence a client identity of device . As such in this aspect a single device specific CID may independently provide a basis for application service authorization and access for the plurality of application service providers . Accordingly CIDP may be referred to as a universal client identifier provider as device specific CID is not owned or controlled by a single application service provider but is owned and controlled independently from the plurality of application service providers yet provides a universal or common basis for identity verification for each of the plurality of application service providers . In other words a single device specific CID may be associated with a respective application service subscriber account in each of the plurality of application service providers thereby enabling device or an application executing thereon to identify itself with any of the plurality of application service providers .

In an aspect NIDP maintains a relationship between each device specific NID and a corresponding device NID owner which may include a maker of device a maker of a portion of device a user of device the owner of the device or any other entity having a relation to the device. Similarly CIDP maintains a relationship between each device specific CID and a corresponding device CID owner which may include a maker of device a maker of a portion of device a user of device the owner of the device or any other entity having a relation to the device. In some aspects NID owner and CID owner may be a same entity or party while in other aspects NID owner and CID owner may be different.

Notably in contrast with prior art solutions in the present apparatus and methods NID owner and CID owner are respectively different from and independent of the plurality of network service providers and the plurality of application service providers . As such in an aspect NID owner may select NIDP from a plurality of NIDPs and CID owner may select CIDP from a plurality of CIDPs for example based on one or more of fees charged by the respective NIDPs or CIDPs network service providers or application service providers supported by the respective NIDP or CIDP or for other business reasons. Moreover NID owner and CID owner may initially select one NIDP or CIDP and later switch to another NIDP or CIDP.

In an aspect device stores device specific NID and device specific CID in a secure environment . For example secure environment may be a portion of a memory having restricted access such that an ability to write data to secure environment may be based on a privilege. In an aspect communication system may further include a provisioning provider in communication with NIDP and or CIDP where provisioning provider has the privilege to write to or cause data to be written to secure environment and thereby to provision device with NID and CID . Also provisioning provider may write other related data to secure memory environment such as network service credentials application service credentials client side identity verification or generation software as required by the respective identity provider etc. as will be discussed in more detail below. As such in some aspects provisioning provider may add network service related and or application service related data to secure memory location such as in the case of adding an ability to communicate with a new network service or application service or may delete or over write previously stored network service related and or application service related data such as in the case of removing access to a network service or application service or re provisioning based on selection of a new NIDP and or CIDP . In one aspect the provisioning provider and NIPD and or CIPD may be separate entities or different functional components within a single entity or different entities.

Thus communication system enables a new paradigm for identity management in a multi network communication system by providing a single device specific NID and a single device specific CID that are respectively verifiable by a multitude of network service providers and a multitude of application service providers via NIDP and CIDP thereby enabling the single device specific NID to be associated with a respective network service subscriber accounts of each of the plurality of network service providers and thereby enabling the single device specific CID to be associated with a respective application service subscriber account in each of the plurality of application service providers . In other words the apparatus and methods of identity management in communication system provide a universal identifier management system which avoids the constraints of network service provider specific or and application service provider specific identity management systems.

Referring now to illustrated is an example an aspect of device with a memory or data store including a secure environment having a secure memory location and a secure software execution location . In an aspect device may be a cellular data modem a 3G modem a 4G modem another data communication device or a universal integrated circuit card UICC . Further in an aspect secure environment may be an area located within a cellular data modem a wireless data modem a UICC card a wireless chipset a processor an operating system or some other entity. As discussed above secure environment and thus secure memory location and secure software execution location may be an area within memory or data store having restricted access such that an ability to write data to secure environment may be based on a privilege. In an aspect secure memory location may include network ID NID and associated network credentials which may provide device for example the ability to authenticate itself and or communicate with one or more network service providers . Network credentials may include but are not limited to data and or algorithms that enable authentication of device and or access to one or more network service providers . For example network credentials may include but are not limited to one or any combination of a security or encryption key or algorithm a random number generator a network service provider identifier a network access parameter network related software among other network credentials.

In addition in an aspect secure memory location may further include client ID CID and associated client credentials which may provide device for example the ability to authenticate itself and or communication with one or more application service providers . Client credentials may include but are not limited to one or any combination of security or encryption keys or algorithms an application identifier an application service provider identifier application service related software application related data or other parameters that enable authentication of device and or access to one or more application service providers .

In an aspect secure software execution location may include a network services connection interface operable to enable interactions between device and one or more network service providers . For example network services connection interface assists in requesting network connections authentication of device and or NID and accessing a network service provider. Network services connection interface may include but is not limited to one or more of an application programming interface to provide communications between one or more applications in memory on device or components on or in communication with device and secure memory location specifically NID and network credentials an application programming interface to provide communications between device and one or more network service providers a software application or algorithm or any other mechanism to facilitate the described interactions and communications. For instance in one case network services connection interface may interact with a component such as a communication manager on device or in communication with device . In this case communication manager which may be hardware software or firmware may detect or become aware of a network that may be used for communication and network services connection interface and communications manager operate to exchange messages with the network to identify device and potentially access the network.

In addition secure software execution location may further include a client services connection interface operable to enable interactions between device or one or more software applications and one or more application service providers . In an aspect client services connection interface provides services between device and application service providers in a similar manner as the services provided by network services connection interface between device and network service providers . For example client services connection interface assists in requesting communication with an application service provider such as an application server authentication of device and or CID and accessing the application service provider. Client services connection interface may include but is not limited to one or more of an application programming interface to provide communications between one or more applications in memory on device or components on or in communication with device and secure memory location specifically CID and client credentials an application programming interface to provide communications between device and one or more application service providers a software application or algorithm or any other mechanism to facilitate the described interactions and communications. In an aspect for example client services connection interface includes a client token generator operable to generate a client token capable of authenticating CID of device . For example client token generator may include an encryption algorithm to generate client token that may include for example CID and an authentication mechanism such as a signature of CIDP which verifies CID in client token . Further client token may include other components generated by token generator or the entity requesting the token from the token generator such as parameter e.g. a random number used in the encryption decryption algorithm a hash or other security mechanism applied to client token or CID so that CID is not transmitted in the clear etc. For instance in one case application may be launched on device and application is associated with an application service provider . Accordingly application utilizes the services of client services connection interface in order to authenticate device to the respective application service provider via transmitting client token to the application service provider and possibly exchanging addition security and or authentication messages depending on the authentication protocol in use.

In addition secure software execution location may include an ID client which may include a NID provisioning re provisioning client and a CID provisioning re provisioning client that may be operable respectively to receive for example the NID and network credentials and CID and client credentials and or other network service related or client application service related identity verification or generation software as utilized by the respective identity provider network service provider or application service provider. NID provisioning re provisioning client and CID provisioning re provisioning client have a trust relationship with provisioning provider such that provisioning provider has the privilege or ability to write to secure environment and add network service related and or application service related identifiers data algorithms parameters etc. and to perform other provisioning related operations with respect to secure environment . For instance as noted above such provisioning or re provisioning operations may include but are not limited to adding or updating an ability to communicate with a new network service provider or a new application service provider or deleting or over writing previously stored network service related and or application service related data such as in the case of removing access to a network service provider or application service provider or re provisioning based on selection of a new NIDP and or CIDP .

In an aspect NID and or CID may include either as an additional component or inherently based on their value a pointer to the respective identity provider e.g. NIDP and or CIDP which issued the NID and or CID . As such a service provider e.g. network service provider and or application service provider may know which identity provider to query or which authentication mechanism to utilize to authenticate NID and or CID or representations or derivations thereof e.g. client token . For example network service provider and or application service provider upon determining the pointer and hence NIDP and or CIDP may apply a corresponding authentication algorithm such as a public key and or other authentication mechanisms corresponding to NIDP and or CIDP in order to authenticate the received identifier.

Further in an aspect where NID may be utilized in place of an IMSI NID may include a mobile country code MCC and a mobile network code MNC .

Referring now to illustrated is an example interaction in communication system of provisioning or re provisioning device for network service. In this aspect provisioning provider is in communication with NIDP and provisioning provider has the privilege to write to or cause data to be written to secure environment on device . Accordingly upon receiving a command and the corresponding data from NIDP provisioning provider communicates with NID provisioning re provisioning client to provision device with NID and or network credentials and or a network services connection interface . In an aspect provisioning provider may determine an association between the device specific NID and device . For example in an aspect a device identity owner may inform provisioning provider that a new device or a device previously identified by a specific NID is to receive NID and the associated credentials and provisioning provider thereby matches the request with appropriate device. In an aspect for example network credentials and or network services connection interface may provide device with client side identity verification or generation software as required by NIDP . Provisioning provider and NIPD may be separate entities or different functional components within a single entity.

Further NID and or network credentials and or a network services connection interface may provide device with the ability to communicate with one or more network service providers that have a trust relationship with NIDP . For example NIDP may be trusted by and or directly accessible to a plurality of network service providers for verifying the authenticity of device specific NID or a representation or derivation thereof and hence verifying a subscriber identity of device . As such in this aspect a single device specific NID may independently provide a basis for verifying a subscriber identity of device for use in network authorization and access to the plurality of network service providers .

In an aspect provisioning provider may forward the received NID and or network credentials and or network services connection interface to NID provisioning re provisioning client on device so that NID provisioning re provisioning client may store the information in secure environment in order to add an ability to communicate with a new network service or to delete or overwrite previously stored network service related data such as in the case of removing access to a network service or re provisioning a new NID new network credentials and or a new network services connection interface for example based on selection of a new NIDP by NID owner .

For example new NIDP may provide provisioning provider with a new NID e.g. in the case where NID is exclusive to NIDP new network credentials and new network services connection interface for accessing network service providers associated with new NIDP and or for authenticating device with network service providers via new NIDP . New network credentials may be utilized for example when NIDP is no longer available. New NID new network credentials and or new network services connection interface may also be utilized if for example new NIDP has different associated or partner network service providers relative to network service providers associated or partnered with NIDP . It should be noted that in some aspects NID may not change upon a change in NIDPs but device may receive only new network credentials and or new network services connection interface . It should be appreciated that new NID new network credentials and or new network services connection interfaces may be provided for a variety of reasons.

Referring now to illustrated is an example interaction in communication system of utilizing NID to enable device to access any number n of network service providers . Device may detect radio access network RAN which may be associated with one of the plurality of network service providers and may transmit a request for connectivity to one or more network services using network services connection interface . Network services connection interface may include NID or a representation or derivation thereof and or network credentials associated NIDP in request . For example network credentials may include security or encryption mechanisms associated with NIDP such as a digital signature of NIDP encryption decryption parameters etc. Further in an aspect request may include an identifier or pointer as discussed above corresponding to NIDP such that a receiving network service provider may know which NIDP to use to verify the authenticity of NID in request . RAN may forward request to one of the plurality of network service providers such as an associated network service provider e.g. a network service provider that owns controls or manages RAN .

Upon receiving the connection request an access client at or associated with the respective network service provider is operable to verify the identity e.g. NID of device before providing the requested network connection. It should be appreciated that a plurality of verification and or authentication methods may be used in verifying the subscriber identity e.g. NID of device .

In an aspect access client may verify the NID with the associated NIDP before providing the requested connection to device . For example network service provider may have an established trust relationship with NIDP such that if NIDP verifies and or authenticates NID network service provider may provide access to device based upon the trust relationship established with NIDP . Access client may verify NID either directly or indirectly. For example in an aspect request and or a portion thereof such as NID or a representation or derivation thereof may be encrypted using a private key of NIDP . In this case network service provider may have or may obtain the corresponding public key of NIDP and use the public key to decrypt request thereby authenticating NID . It should be understood that the above private key public key is just one example and that other indirect authentication methods may be utilized.

In another aspect a direct authentication method may include network service provider forwarding an authentication information request e.g. including the received request or a portion thereof such as NID to the NIDP associated with NID along with a request to verify the authenticity of NID and the subscriber identity of device . In this case NIDP may have an authentication component for receiving the authentication information request and returning authentication information e.g. authenticating one or more NIDs associated with one or more devices to the respective service provider. For example authentication component may include encryption decryption algorithms mappings of valid NIDs to devices etc. which allows authentication component to determine NID associated with request and determine if the received NID matches a valid NID in one of the mappings. If the received NID is valid NIDP may send a response e.g. the authentication information to network service provider authenticating NID . If however the received NID is not valid NIDP may send a response to network service provider indicating that NID is not valid.

Upon verifying the authenticity of NID the network service provider associated with RAN may allow RAN to provide a communication connection and or other network services to device . In one aspect the respective network service provider associated with RAN may provide network access to device based upon for example a roaming agreement established with NIDP and or another one of the plurality of network service providers . In another aspect network service provider may use the network credentials received from device to set parameters for the network access provided to device . For example network credentials may identify a subscriber type one or more device capabilities quality of service parameters etc. that are to be applied to network access provided to device .

In another aspect network service provider may include an account client to establish a new network service subscriber account with device for providing network access to device . In an aspect account client then maintains a relationship between NID and subscriber account . For example network service provider may prompt a user of device to provide relevant account setup information e.g. name address contact information as well as payment information to network service provider to setup subscriber account for the requested connectivity. Similarly another one of the plurality of network service providers may have had or may have in the future a similar request for network connectivity from device . As such another one of the plurality of network service providers may have another subscriber account e.g. subscriber account associated with NID and device . Thus NID may be the subscriber identifier associated with different subscriber accounts e.g. subscriber account and subscriber account at more than one of the plurality of network service providers .

In other words RAN may be associated with any one of the plurality of network service providers . As such the plurality of network service providers may each use the same device specific NID associated with device for authenticating device . Thus NID enables access to the plurality of network service providers that have a trust relationship with NIDP and use the trust relationship to authenticate device without device being previously associated with the particular network service providers .

It should be noted that the NID usage for network access interactions described above with reference to and the components performing these interactions such as access client may perform protocols based on 3GPP and 3GPP2 specifications e.g. for verifying a subscriber identification based on an IMSI where NID or a representation or derivation thereof takes the role of 3GPP or 3GPP2 identifier such as the IMSI. In solutions based on 3GPP or 3GPP2 specifications the NIPD typically operates a HLR a HSS and or an AAA server as specified in the respective 3GPP GPP2 specification. The usage of the NID in lieu of carrier specific IMSI for authenticating the device towards a 3GPP or 3GPP2 network may be transparent to the network service provider i.e. the NID authentication method and network access based on NID follows the existing mechanisms applicable to authenticate and provide network services to a device identified by a carrier specific IMSI.

Referring now to illustrated is an example interaction in communication system of provisioning or re provisioning device with a CID for use in enabling application services. Provisioning provider is in communication with CIDP and provisioning provider has the privilege to write to or cause data to be written to secure environment . As such upon receiving a command and or the data from CIDP provisioning provider provisions device with CID and or client credentials and or a client services connection interface including token generator .

Further CID or client token and or client credentials and or a client services connection interface may provide device with the ability to communicate with one or more application service providers that have a trust relationship with CIDP . For example if CIDP is trusted by plurality of application service providers the plurality of application service providers may provide device and or an application thereon with application services upon verifying the authenticity of device specific CID or a representation or derivation thereof such as client token . As such device specific CID effectively serves as an application services subscriber identifier of device . Accordingly in this aspect a single device specific CID may independently provide a basis for application service authorization and access for the plurality of application service providers .

Provisioning provider and CIPD may be separate entities or different functional components within a single entity. Also it should also be appreciated that client credentials and client services connection interface for accessing application service providers may be independent of the network credentials and network services connection interface for accessing network service providers

In an aspect provisioning provider may forward the received CID or client token and or client credentials and or client services connection interface to CID provisioning re provisioning client on device so that CID provisioning re provisioning client . As CID provisioning re provisioning client has a trust relationship with provisioning provider and based on the privilege of provisioning provider CID provisioning re provisioning client stores the received data in secure environment . As such the newly stored data may add an ability to communicate with a new application service or may delete or over write previously stored application service related data such as in the case of removing access to a application service or re provisioning based on selection of a new CIDP and thereby acquiring a new CID new client credentials and or new client services connection interface .

For example device CID owner may select a new client identity provider and thus CIDP may provide provisioning provider with new CID e.g. in the case where CID is exclusive to CIDP new client credentials and or new client services connection interface for accessing new application service providers and or authenticating with new CIDP . New client credentials and or new client services connection interface may be utilized for example if CIDP is no longer available. New CID new client credentials and or new client services connection interface may also be utilized if for example new CIDP has different application service providers relative to the application service providers associated with CIDP . It should be noted that in some aspects CID may not change upon a change in CIDPs but device may receive only new client credentials and or new client services connection interface . It should be appreciated that new CID new client credentials and or new client services connection interfaces may be provided for a variety of reasons.

Referring now to illustrated is an example interaction in communication system for using CID and or client token in providing application services to device . In an aspect device may launch or interact with one or more applications which interact with client services connection interface to generate a request for services from a corresponding one of any number n of application service providers . For example in an aspect service request may include client token generated based upon CID and parameters algorithms provided by CIDP . As such client token may be used to identify device . Service request may also include an application identifier corresponding to application requesting the service and an identifier of CIDP such that an application service provider receiving request may know which CIDP to use to verify the authenticity of client token and or CID .

Upon receiving request the application service provider e.g. identified as the application service provider corresponding to application making the request may have an access client that executes to verify CID and or client token before providing the requested service to application . It should be appreciated that a plurality of verification and or authentication methods may be used in verifying CID and or client token . In an aspect access client may verify the CID and or client token with the associated CIDP before providing service to application . For example application service provider may have an established trust relationship with CIDP such that if CIDP verifies and or authenticates CID and or client token application service provider may provide access to device associated with CID based upon the trust relationship established with CIDP .

Access client may verify CID either directly or indirectly. For example in one aspect application service provider or access client may authenticate CID and or client token such as by applying a public key of CIDP to request or client token to obtain and validate CID . In another aspect application service provider or access client may authenticate device by forwarding an authentication information request e.g. including the received CID and or client token or a portion thereof to the corresponding CIDP . CIDP may have an authentication component for receiving the authentication information request and generating corresponding authentication information e.g. authenticating one or more CIDs and or client tokens associated with one or more devices . If the received CID and or client token is valid then CIDP may send a response e.g. the authentication information to application service provider authenticating an application services subscriber identity of device . If however the received CID and or client token is not valid CIDP may send a response to application service provider indicating an invalid identification.

Upon verifying the authenticity of CID and or client token and hence the application services subscriber identity of device application service provider may include an account client that determines whether an application service subscriber account is established for CID . If an application service subscriber account has been established application service provider may use the application service subscriber account associated with CID to provide application services to device and or application . For example if a user of device has previously established an account with an online service provider that provide electronic book downloads upon verifying the authenticity of device via the CID and or client token the online service provider may provide access to the electronic books to device using the account previously established for device .

If however an application service account has not been established for CID account client may initiate an account establishment process to collect subscriber information and setup subscriber account . For example application service provider may request a user of device provide a user name and or password contact information payment information etc. for associating with application services subscriber account .

It should be appreciated that any of the plurality of application service providers associated with a plurality of applications may receive request for services using the CID and or client token to verify an application services subscriber identity of device . Thus device may use CID and or client token to access a plurality of application service providers without CID being uniquely associated with each individual application service provider . Instead the application service providers may have a trust relationship with CIDP and use the relationship established with CIDP to authenticate device via CID and or client token . Thus CID may be associated with a plurality of different application services subscriber accounts e.g. subscriber account and subscriber account at any number of different application service providers.

Referring now to illustrated is an example communication device operable within the communication system in accordance with an aspect. Communication device may include device or communication device may be device . For example device may be a modem or an operating system or a memory card and thus device is included in communication device . Further for example device may be a cellular telephone and in an aspect communication device may thus be device .

In one aspect communication device may include a processor for carrying out processing functions associated with one or more of components and functions described herein. Processor can include a single or multiple set of processors or multi core processors. Moreover processor can be implemented as an integrated processing system and or a distributed processing system.

Communication device may further includes a memory such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include a type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof. Memory may be the same as or may include memory .

Further communication device includes a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on communication device as well as between communication device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to communication device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices.

Additionally communication device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor .

Communication device may additionally include a user interface component operable to receive inputs from a user of communication device and further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. User interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component any other mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user or any combination thereof. Further user interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output to a user or any combination thereof.

In an aspect memory and or data store may include one or more applications . In addition memory and or data store and or processor may include device . Thus it should be appreciated that device may be within communication device .

Referring now to illustrated is an example server device operable within communication system in accordance with yet another aspect. For example server device may provide all or a portion of the functionality of any of NIDP network service provider CIDP application service provider and provisioning provider of . Server manages network connectivity matters for access network . Server includes processor component for carrying out processing functions associated with one or more of components and functions described herein. Processor component can include a single or multiple set of processors or multi core processors. Moreover processing component can be implemented as an integrated processing system and or a distributed processing system.

Server further includes a memory such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor component . Memory can include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and a combination thereof.

Further server includes a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on server as well as between server and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to server .

Additionally server may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently executing.

Referring now to illustrated is a connectivity system in accordance with an aspect. Connectivity system may include device in communication with identity provider . Device may launch one or more applications that require data connectivity to access and or receive services provided by application service provider . In an aspect device may establish an initial connection with MVNO where the connection may be a pinhole connection so that device may have an initial connection with MVNO to request data connectivity for use with application service provider . For example the pinhole connection may be sponsored data connectivity from application service provider where the application service provider pays for the initial connection with MVNO so that device may receive data connectivity from MVNO to send a service request to application service provider . The pinhole connection may also be a default connection where the MVNO allows device to attempt to connect with application service provider .

MVNO may authenticate device with HLR before providing data connectivity to device . For example HLR may authenticate the IMSI of device . Device may request and receive a client ID from identity provider to use with application . Client ID may be an identifier that is unique to application and device . Device may forward the client ID to application . Application may forward the client ID to application service provider along with any authentication parameters device has for application service provider e.g. user name and or password .

Application service provider may perform a look up to determine the access plan information associated with the received client ID. Application service provider may forward the client ID and the plan ID identifying the access plan information associated with the client ID to backend . Backend may communicate with MVNO by forwarding the received plan ID and the IMSI of device . Upon receiving the plan ID and IMSI of device MVNO may provide data connectivity to device for access to application service provider based on the data connectivity plan identified by the plan ID.

Referring now to illustrated is signaling diagram for activating a communication plan in accordance with an aspect. Signaling diagram illustrates an aspect where MVNO is providing communication access to device for use with application service provider based upon a verification of the IMSI associated with device .

At application sends a request to ID client requesting a client ID for application . For example when device launches application device may request a client ID from identity provider to use with application .

At identity provider may receive a client ID request from ID client requesting the client ID for application . Next at identity provider may communicate with HLR to request authentication information and at identity provider may receive the authentication information from HLR . The authentication information may be based for example on the IMSI of device .

At an IMSI authentication may occur between SIM and identity provider to authenticate device using the authentication information received from HLR . Upon identity provider authenticating the IMSI of device at identity provider may generate a client ID and key for the IMSI of device . It should be noted that the client ID may be unique to application and device .

At identity provider may map the generated client ID to the IMSI of device and store the mapping for example in an identity data store.

Referring to for example illustrated is an example identity data store of identity provider in accordance with an aspect. Identity data store may include a plurality of IMSIs and for each IMSI included in the identity data store identity provider may map one or more client IDs to the respective IMSI . It should be noted that for each application accessed by device a different client ID may be associated with each application and therefore the IMSI of device may be associated with a plurality of client IDs for accessing the respective application service providers. By creating different client IDs to access different application service providers each application service provider is unaware of the activity occurring at the other application service providers by device . Moreover by having different client IDs to access different application service providers data cannot be shared between the application service providers regarding the activity of device . Thus privacy is created by segmenting the access to the various application service providers.

Referring back to at identity provider may send the client ID and key to ID client . At ID client may forward the client ID and key to application .

Next at application may send a service request to application service provider requesting service. The service request may include for example the client ID and the MVNO ID from ID client . It should be noted that the request for service may be for internet connectivity and or for any service provided by application service provider .

At application service provider may send an activate plan message to backend . The activate plan message may include for example the client ID and the plan information associated with the client ID. The plan information may include but is not limited to parameters identifying the data connection plan e.g. 100 megabytes of data access for use with the MVNO associated with the received MVNO ID. In addition the plan information may include a plan identifier for identifying the data connection plan.

At backend may perform a look up to associate the client ID received from application service provider with the appropriate IMSI. For example backend may access identity data store and compare the received client ID with client IDs . When a match occurs backend may retrieve the IMSI associated with the client ID e.g. client ID that matches the received client ID from application service provider .

Next at identity provider may send an activate plan message to MVNO . The activate plan message may include for example the IMSI of device and the plan information received from application service provider . It should be noted that the plan information may include a variety of information that may inform the MVNO of an amount of data access to provide to device for use with application .

Referring now to illustrated is an example connectivity system in accordance with an aspect. Connectivity system may include device in communication with a network service provider such as a cellular carrier and or a WiFi access point. In an aspect device may have a network service provider ID that is unique to the network service provider and allows device to access network service provider . Network service provider ID may include for example an access code and or a user name and password. For example if network service provider is a WiFi access point the network service provider ID may be a key that allows device to connect to the WiFi access point. In addition device may have a network ID that is generated by identity provider and identifies device to the network service provider . The network service provider may communicate with identity provider using the network ID of device .

In an aspect device may also communicate with application service provider . Device may have an application service provider ID that allows device to access application service provider and may identify a subscriber account associated with device . Application service provider ID may include but is not limited to a user name a password an access code or any combination thereof. In addition device may request a client ID from identity provider to use when accessing application service provider . Device may forward the received client ID to application service provider when requesting access to application service provider . The application service provider may forward the client ID to identity provider . Identity provider may perform a look up based upon the received client ID the network ID associated with device . Upon determining the correct network ID identity provider may forward the request for access to application service provider to network service provider . Network service provider may provide the requested data connectivity to device for accessing application service provider .

Referring now to illustrated is signaling diagram for activating a communication plan in accordance with an aspect. Signaling diagram illustrates an aspect where a network service provider is providing communication access to device for use with application service provider . It should be noted that device may not need a business relationship such as a data connectivity plan with network service provider . Instead device may negotiate with the application service provider to purchase data connectivity from application service provider to use with network service provider . Network service provider may include but is not limited to a WiFi data access point a cellular network and a MVNO.

At device may connect to network service provider . For example device may have a predefined network selection list indicating which networks device may connect to in order to receive data connectivity. In an aspect network service provider may be included on the network selection list of device and therefore device may connect to network service provider using information provided in the network selection list. In addition device may discover which networks are near device that may provide data connectivity. For example network service provider may be near device and a component on device may discover network service provider and that network service provider has data connectivity available.

In an aspect the initial connection with network service provider may be a pinhole connection allowing device to have an initial connection with network service provider to request service from application service provider . Network service provider may allow device to connect to network service provider without a data plan in order to allow traffic destined for application service provider to pass through network service provider . For example the pinhole connection may be sponsored data connectivity from application service provider . Application service provider may pay for initial connections with network service provider and therefore allowing device to receive an initial data connection from network service provider to send a service request to application service provider . The pinhole connection may also be a default connection where network service provider allows device to attempt to connect with application service provider . Therefore device may not need a business relationship with network service provider . Instead network service provider may have a relationship with identity provider so that device may access network service provider without having a business relationship with network service provider .

At the ID client may forward a network ID request message to Identity provider for the network ID associated with network service provider . The network ID request message may include network identification information such as a name of network service provider . In addition the network ID request message may also include the IMSI of device . Thus identity provider may use the network ID request to identify device and the network service provider that device is currently connected with.

Next at identity provider may generate the network ID for network service provider for device and map the generated network ID to the received IMSI of device . It should be noted that the network ID generated by identity provider may be unique to the connection of device with network service provider . At identity provider may forward the generated network ID to ID client . In an aspect identity provider may also store the generated network ID in an identity data store .

Referring now to illustrated is an example identity data store in accordance with an aspect. Identity data store may include a plurality of IMSIs with each IMSI associated with a device. For each IMSI included in the identity data store identity provider may map one or more client IDs and or one or more network IDs to the IMSI . By mapping the identifiers to the IMSI all identifiers that are associated with the same device will point to the same IMSI. In addition by mapping the identifiers to the IMSI the identifiers of a device may indirectly map to other IDs that are associated with the same device.

Referring back to in an aspect identity provider may compare the received IMSI of device and the received network information of network service provider to the information stored in identity data store . When a match occurs identity provider at may forward the network ID to ID client .

At network service provider may receive the network ID from ID client and at network service provider may associate the network ID with the connection provided to device . Thus while network service provider may not know the IMSI of device network service provider may identify device through the network ID associated with device .

At application may send a request to ID client for the client application ID associated with application . For example a different client application ID may be used for each application used by device .

Next at identity provider may receive a request for the client application ID associated with application . The request for the client application ID may include application information that identifies application to identity provider and the IMSI of device .

At identity provider may generate the client application ID associated with application for device . At identity provider may send the client application ID to ID client . In addition identity provider may also store the generated client application ID in a data store such as identity data store .

In an aspect identity provider may compare the received IMSI and the application information for application with the information stored for example in identity data store . When a match occurs at identity provider may at send the client application ID that matches the information for application and the IMSI to ID client .

Next at ID client may send the received client application ID to application . At application may send a request for service to application service provider . The request for service may include the client application ID and a network service provider identification so that the request for service may identify the application and the network service provider to the application service provider . The request for service may also include an application service provider ID that allows a user of device to gain access to the application service provider and or identifies the user to the application service provider. For example the application service provider ID may be a user name and or password that may provide access to a subscriber account associate with the user of device . The application service provider may use the application service provider ID to associate the account of the user of device with the client application ID and the network service provider information. It should be noted that the request for service may be for internet connectivity and or any service provided by application service provider .

At application service provider may determine the purchase plan and or services to provide to device based on the received network service provider ID the application ID and or the information identifying the network service provider . In an aspect applicant service provider may determine that a data connectivity plan exists between the user of device and application service provider to use with the application associated with application ID. For example the user of device may have paid application service provider for data connectivity to access the services provided by application service provider .

In an aspect application service provider may determine that the user of device may need to purchase data connectivity in order to receive the services provided by application service provider . For example the user of device may not have a pre established data connectivity plan for accessing the services provided by application service provider and may negotiate with application service provider to purchase data connectivity to use with network service provider . In an aspect application service provider and network service provider may have pre established a data plan rate at which the user of device may purchase data connectivity.

In another aspect application service provider may sponsor the entire data connectivity and or a portion of the data connectivity with network service provider . For example application service provider may pay for the data connectivity with network service provider for use with the services provided by application service provider . Thus when device launches application to access a service provided by application service provider application service provider may pay for the entire data connectivity for using the requested service.

At application service provider may send an activate plan message to identity provider . The activate plan message may include for example the plan information for application on device using data connectivity provided by network service provider .

Next at identity provider may perform a lookup to determine the network ID associated with the received network information from the application service provider . In an aspect identity provider may compare the received network information a data store of identities such as identity data store . When a match occurs identity provider at may forward the plan information device ID and network ID to network service provider .

At network service provider may alter the connection with application to meet the received data plan from identity provider .

In one use case the user of device may want to purchase an electronic book from application service provider and may have a data connectivity plan with application service provider that allows unlimited data connectivity for purchasing and or downloading electronic books from application service provider . In addition device may have an initial connection with network service provider which allows device to send a request to purchase an electronic book to application service provider . Upon the application service provider receiving the request to purchase the electronic book and accessing the account associated with the user of device the application service provider may determine that device should received data connectivity to purchase the electronic book. Application service provider may send an active plan message to identity provider to active the corresponding data connectivity plan for device to use with network service provider . Identity provider may perform a lookup based upon the received activation plan to determine the network ID associated with device and may forward the received data connectivity plan for device and network Id for device to network service provider . Network service provider may alter the data connection with device in accordance with the data connectivity plan received from identity provider .

Referring now to a method for communication in accordance with an aspect includes at receiving from an identifier ID client on a wireless device a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider. For example in an aspect identity provider may receive a request for an application specific identifier e.g. client ID for application from identity ID client . The request for the application specific identifier may also include a device identifier such as an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI of the device . In addition the method may include performing an IMSI authentication with a subscriber identity module SIM of the wireless device. For example identity provider may authenticate the IMSI of device with the SIM of device .

In an optional aspect the method may further include receiving a request for a network specific identifier from the ID client on the wireless device and sending the network specific identifier to the ID client. For example identity provider may receive a request for a network specific identifier from ID client and identity provider may send the network specific identifier to ID client .

At the method may include generating the application specific identifier. For example identity provider may generate the application specific identifier for device . It should be noted that the application specific identifier may be unique to device and application and therefore device may be identified and or authenticated using the application specific identifier.

Next at the method may include mapping the application specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. For example identity provider may associate the application specific identifier to the IMSI of device . In an aspect identity provider may also store the association of the application specific identifier and the IMSI in a data store. In addition the identity provider may also map the network specific identifier to the IMSI of device and store the mapping of the network specific identifier and the IMSI in a data store. At the method may also include sending the application specific identifier to the wireless device. Identity provider may forward the application specific identifier to ID client .

At the method may further include receiving a request to activate connectivity for the application specific identifier from the application service provider which sent the request to activate in response to receiving a request for service from the wireless device. For example identity provider may receive a request to activate connectivity from application service provider . The request to activate may include a data connectivity plan for device to use with a network service provider and or a MNVO . In an aspect the request to activate may include the network service provider information that identifies network service provider .

In addition at the method may include performing a lookup for the device identifier based on the received application specific identifier in the request to activate. For example identity provider may look up the IMSI of device based upon the application specific identifier and or the network service provider information.

At the method may include sending a connectivity request with the device identifier from the lookup to a network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device. In an aspect identity provider may send a connectivity request to MVNO with the device identifier for device . The connectivity request may include data connectivity plan information corresponding to the data connectivity received from application service provider . Identity provider may also send the connectivity request to network service provider and the connectivity request may include the specific network ID associated with network service provider and device .

Referring now to a method for providing services in accordance with an aspect includes at receiving from a wireless device a service request including an application specific identifier corresponding to an application on the wireless device. For example an application executing via device may send a service request to application service provider . The service request may be for internet connectivity and or any other service provided by the application service provider. In an aspect the service request may include an application specific identifier e.g. client ID for the application. In addition the service request may include an MVNO ID identifying MVNO for providing the data connectivity to device . In another aspect the service request may include network service provider information identifying for example network service provider for providing the data connectivity to device .

It should also be noted that the service request may further include an application service provider ID that accesses a subscriber account associated with the user of device . For example the application service provider ID may be a user name and or password.

At the method may also include determining a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device. For example the application service provider may determine a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier device and or network service provider . In an aspect application service provider may access the subscriber account associated with the application service provider ID received in the service request. The application service provider may determine whether the subscriber account includes pre paid data connectivity for the services provided by application service provider. When the subscriber account includes pre paid data connectivity the application service provider may associate the pre paid data connectivity to the data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device.

When the subscriber account does not include pre paid data connectivity the application service provider may prompt a user of device to purchase data connectivity. The application service provider may apply the purchased data connectivity to the data connectivity plan to use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device.

In an aspect the application service provider may determine whether sponsored data connectivity is available for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device. Sponsored data connectivity may include data connectivity that is partially paid for and or entirely paid for by the application service provider and or another third party. When sponsored data connectivity is available the application service provider may apply the sponsored data connectivity to the data connectivity plan. It should be noted that when the sponsored data connectivity partially pays for the data connectivity the application service provider may apply pre paid data connectivity from a subscriber s account to cover the remaining cost of the data connectivity and or prompt a user to purchase the remaining cost of the data connectivity.

Next at the method may include sending to an identity provider a request to activate connectivity for the data connectivity plan. For example the application service provider may send a request to activate connectivity to identity provider . The request to activate connectivity may include for example the application specific identifier the data connectivity plan and or data connectivity plan information identifying the data connectivity plan. In addition the request to activate connectivity may include network service provider information identifying for example network service provider for providing the data connectivity to device .

Referring now to a method for providing data connectivity in accordance with an aspect includes at receiving from an identity provider a connectivity request to provide connectivity to a wireless device the connectivity request including a device identifier of the wireless device and data connectivity plan information for the connectivity. In an aspect MVNO may receive a connectivity request from identity provider to provide connectivity to device . The connectivity request may include for example a device identifier such as an IMSI of device and data connectivity plan information for the requested connectivity.

In another aspect network service provider may receive a connectivity request from identity provider to provide connectivity to device . The connectivity request may include for example a network ID associated with device and the data connectivity plan for the requested connectivity. In an aspect the network service provider may have previously received the network ID from device and associated an initial connection with device to the received network ID.

In addition at the method may include providing the connectivity to the wireless device based upon the received data connectivity plan information. For example MVNO and or network service provider may provide the requested data connectivity to device in accordance with the data connectivity plan information and or the data connectivity plan received from identity provider .

In an optional aspect an initial connection may be established between device and MVNO and or network service provider . It should be noted that device may not have a business relationship e.g. a data connectivity plan with MVNO and or network service provider . Thus the initial connection may be a pinhole connection that allows device to send a service request to application service provider and negotiate a data connectivity plan with application service provider for use with MVNO and or network service provider .

Referring now to a method for communication in accordance with an aspect includes at receiving from an application a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider for the application. For example application may send a request for an application specific identifier to an identifier ID client . The application specific identifier may correspond to application on device .

At the method may also include sending to an identity provider the request for the application specific identifier. For example ID client may forward the request for the application specific identifier to an identity provider . The request for the application specific identifier may also include for example a device identifier such as an IMSI of device .

Next at the method may include receiving from the identity provider the application specific identifier. For example identity provider may send the application specific identifier e.g. client ID for the application to ID client . ID client may forward the received application specific identifier to application .

In an optional aspect the method may further include sending a request for a network specific identifier to the identity provider and receiving from the identity provider the network specific identifier. For example ID client may send a request for a network specific identifier to identity provider and ID client may receive the network specific identifier from identity provider . In addition the method may include sending the network specific identifier to a network service provider. For example ID client may send the network specific identifier to network service provider .

At the method may further include sending to the application service provider a service request to use with the application specific identifier and a network service provider. The service request may be for internet connectivity and or for any services provided by the application service provider. For example application may send a service request to application service provider . The service request may include for example application specific identifier e.g. client ID for the application and the MVNO ID. In addition the service request may also include network service provider information identifying the network service provider.

In addition at the method may include receiving from the network service provider data connectivity to access the services provided by the application service provider for the application. For example application may receive the data connectivity from MVNO to access the services provided by application service provider.

Referring now to illustrated is a system configured for communication. For example system can reside at least partially within a transmitter mobile device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that facilitate communication. For instance logical grouping may include component for receiving from an identifier client on a wireless device a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider. Further logical grouping may comprise component for generating the application specific identifier. In addition logical grouping may include component for mapping the application specific identifier to a device identifier of the wireless device. Logical grouping may also include component for sending the application specific identifier to the wireless device. Moreover logical grouping may comprise component for receiving a request to activate connectivity for the application specific identifier from the application service provider which sent the request to activate in response to receiving a request for service from the wireless device. Logical grouping may also include component for performing a lookup for the device identifier based on the received application specific identifier in the request to activate. Logical grouping may further include component for sending a connectivity request with the device identifier from the lookup to a network service provider to provide the connectivity to the wireless device. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and can exist within memory .

Referring now to illustrated is a system configured for providing services. For example system can reside at least partially within a transmitter mobile device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that facilitate providing services. For instance logical grouping may include component for receiving from a wireless device a service request including an application specific identifier corresponding to an application on the wireless device. Further logical grouping may comprise component for determining a data connectivity plan for use with the application specific identifier and the wireless device. In addition logical grouping may include component for sending to an identity provider a request to activate connectivity for the data connectivity plan. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and can exist within memory .

Referring now to illustrated is a system configured for providing data connectivity. For example system can reside at least partially within a transmitter mobile device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that facilitate subscription management. For instance logical grouping may include component for receiving from an identity provider a connectivity request to provide connectivity to a wireless device the connectivity request including a device identifier of the wireless device and data connectivity plan information for the connectivity. Further logical grouping may comprise component for providing the connectivity to the wireless device based upon the received data connectivity plan information. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and can exist within memory .

Referring now to illustrated is a system configured for communication. For example system can reside at least partially within a transmitter mobile device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that facilitate communication. For instance logical grouping may include component for receiving from an application a request for an application specific identifier corresponding to an application service provider for the application. Further logical grouping may comprise component for sending to an identity provider the request for the application specific identifier. In addition logical grouping may include component for receiving from the identity provider the application specific identifier. Logical grouping may also include component for sending to the application service provider a service request to use with the application specific identifier and a network service provider. Moreover logical grouping may comprise component for receiving from the network service provider data connectivity to access the services provided by the application service provider for the application. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and can exist within memory .

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

