---

title: Systems and methods of managing communication endpoints
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a trigger to dynamically modify a serving site of a communication endpoint, wherein the communication endpoint is registered to receive digital communication service from a first serving site. The method further includes determining a stored serving-site selection policy applicable to the communication endpoint. The method also includes selecting a second serving site for the communication endpoint based, at least part, on a stored serving-site selection policy. Also, the method includes determining endpoint-configuration requirements of the second serving site. Furthermore, the method includes dynamically generating endpoint configurations that satisfy the endpoint-configuration requirements of the second serving site. Moreover, the method includes writing the generated endpoint configurations to the communication endpoint. Additionally, the method includes causing the communication endpoint to register to receive digital communication service from the second serving site in place of the first serving site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591049&OS=09591049&RS=09591049
owner: iNEMSOFT, Inc.
number: 09591049
owner_city: Frisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150915
---
This patent application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 051 067. U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 051 067 is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to network communication and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for managing communication endpoints.

The communication endpoint whether legacy analog digital or Internet Protocol IP can be a critical asset within any enterprise. Telephones are a vehicle for communicating among the enterprise its personnel and customers. Securing provisioning maintaining and managing these assets can be just as critical as high availability and disaster recovery. Some high value lines of business and their revenues depend directly on a direct telephone call with customers partners or employees. In essence telephones can impact business users operations and contact centers with consequences to revenues and to customer and employee satisfaction. Rapid changes in endpoint hardware firmware and communications server make communication endpoints difficult to control maintain and recover.

In one embodiment a method is performed by a computer system. The method includes receiving a trigger to dynamically modify a serving site of a communication endpoint wherein the communication endpoint is registered to receive digital communication service from a first serving site. The method further includes determining a stored serving site selection policy applicable to the communication endpoint. The method also includes accessing the stored serving site selection policy. In addition the method includes selecting a second serving site for the communication endpoint from among a plurality of alternative serving sites wherein the selection is based at least part on the stored serving site selection policy. Also the method includes determining endpoint configuration requirements of the second serving site based at least in part on a stored profile of the second serving site. Furthermore the method includes dynamically generating endpoint configurations that satisfy the endpoint configuration requirements of the second serving site. Moreover the method includes writing the generated endpoint configurations to the communication endpoint. Additionally the method includes causing the communication endpoint to register to receive digital communication service from the second serving site in place of the first serving site.

In one embodiment a system includes at least one processor. The at least one processor is operable to perform a method. The method includes receiving a trigger to dynamically modify a serving site of a communication endpoint wherein the communication endpoint is registered to receive digital communication service from a first serving site. The method further includes determining a stored serving site selection policy applicable to the communication endpoint. The method also includes accessing the stored serving site selection policy. In addition the method includes selecting a second serving site for the communication endpoint from among a plurality of alternative serving sites wherein the selection is based at least part on the stored serving site selection policy. Also the method includes determining endpoint configuration requirements of the second serving site based at least in part on a stored profile of the second serving site. Furthermore the method includes dynamically generating endpoint configurations that satisfy the endpoint configuration requirements of the second serving site. Moreover the method includes writing the generated endpoint configurations to the communication endpoint. Additionally the method includes causing the communication endpoint to register to receive digital communication service from the second serving site in place of the first serving site.

In one embodiment a computer program product includes a non transitory computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes receiving a trigger to dynamically modify a serving site of a communication endpoint wherein the communication endpoint is registered to receive digital communication service from a first serving site. The method further includes determining a stored serving site selection policy applicable to the communication endpoint. The method also includes accessing the stored serving site selection policy. In addition the method includes selecting a second serving site for the communication endpoint from among a plurality of alternative serving sites wherein the selection is based at least part on the stored serving site selection policy. Also the method includes determining endpoint configuration requirements of the second serving site based at least in part on a stored profile of the second serving site. Furthermore the method includes dynamically generating endpoint configurations that satisfy the endpoint configuration requirements of the second serving site. Moreover the method includes writing the generated endpoint configurations to the communication endpoint. Additionally the method includes causing the communication endpoint to register to receive digital communication service from the second serving site in place of the first serving site.

In general the communication endpoints can each receive and transmit digital communication such as for example audio and or video as Internet Protocol IP packets over the network which can include one or more packet switched networks. In certain embodiments the communication endpoints can be configured to implement Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP . For example the communication endpoints can implement VoIP protocols such as H.323 Media Gateway Control Protocol MGCP Session Initiation Protocol SIP H.248 Real time Transport Control Protocol RTCP Real time Transport Control Protocol RTCP Secure Real time Transport Protocol SRTP Session Description Protocol SDP Inter Asterisk eXchange IAX Jingle XMPP VoIP extensions Skype protocol Teamspeak combinations of same and or the like.

Examples of communication endpoints include a cellular phone a smart phone a two way land mobile radio a radio base station controller a wearable or body borne computer a session initiation protocol SIP phone a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a global positioning system a multimedia device a video device a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a camera a game console a set top box or any other similar functioning device. A particular communication endpoint may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a user device an end user device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a user agent a mobile client a client or as some other suitable term. For illustrative purposes examples will be described herein in which the communication endpoints are IP phones or SIP phones. However it should be appreciated that the principles described herein are not limited to these example implementations.

The communication endpoints and N are shown to include endpoint configurations that include settings and N respectively collectively settings firmware and N respectively collectively firmware and application software and respectively collectively application software . The settings can each include for example configuration parameters that enable the respective communication endpoint of the communication endpoints to operate and communicate with one or more of the serving sites . In some implementations the settings can include security profiles and security certificates. In certain embodiments the settings can be encapsulated in settings files. In an example the settings can reference a serving site of the serving sites that is providing digital communication service to a given communication endpoint. The firmware can be a low level control program in memory of the communication endpoints . In an example the firmware can reside in read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory. In various cases the application software can be a program designed to run in respective operating system environments of the communication endpoints .

In general the serving sites are locations that can serve and process digital communication such as voice communication resulting from telephone calls which are directed to the communication endpoints . The serving sites and N are shown to include communication managers and N respectively collectively communication managers . The communication managers can each function as a communication server such as a call server that can provide digital communication service such as VoIP service to communication endpoints such as the communication endpoints . In a typical embodiment the communication endpoints can each register with a particular serving site of the serving sites to receive communication services provided thereby.

As will be described in greater detail with respect to the endpoint managers can involve many different application services which services can be loaded and managed on single or multiple host servers. In certain embodiments the application server s can facilitate distributed deployments of the endpoint managers through host server and process replication. In addition the application server s can facilitate communication between the communication managers of the serving sites and the endpoint managers during performance of the application services by providing a common interface therebetween. In embodiments in which the application server s include more than one server the application server s can be colocated or geographically distributed. The replicated and distributed configuration of the application server s can provide a foundation for failover recovery and self healing. In certain embodiments endpoint management application services and processes can be dynamically loaded configured initialized enabled disabled and unloaded by an administration component of the endpoint managers .

The endpoint managers can centrally administer the communication endpoints and control to which serving site of the serving sites the communication endpoints are registered at a given time. For example in various embodiments the endpoint managers can administer the communication endpoints in relation to a configurable endpoint management hierarchy. In an example the configurable endpoint management hierarchy can be configured to match a given company or enterprise s lines of business. According to this example a line of business LOB could be a business unit of the company or enterprise that specific functions.

In various cases each node of an endpoint management hierarchy can be an individually manageable grouping of users and their communication endpoints. For example a given endpoint management hierarchy for a banking enterprise might include categories for credit card services residential banking mortgage banking and customer service. According to this example each communication endpoint of the communication endpoints can be a child node of one of these categories. For instance a communication endpoint assigned to a user in a residential banking division of the banking enterprise can belong to or be a child node of the residential banking category of the endpoint management hierarchy. In similar fashion all other communication endpoints of the banking enterprise can belong to or be child nodes of particular categories of the endpoint management hierarchy in correspondence to their assigned users. It should be appreciated that in various cases the communication endpoints of a given category can be distributed across physical locations throughout the world. An example of an endpoint management hierarchy will be described in relation to .

In various embodiments the endpoint managers maintain a configurations repository that can include settings configurations security certificates firmware and or software usable by the communication endpoints . In certain embodiments the endpoint managers can receive a trigger to dynamically modify a serving site of a selected set of one or more of the communication endpoints . In some cases the selected set can be a particular category or node of an endpoint management hierarchy as described above. In response to the trigger the endpoint managers can invoke a process that causes the selected set of the communication endpoints to register to receive digital communication service from a different serving site of the serving sites . Example implementations and operation of the endpoint managers will be described in relation to .

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each instance of a computer or computer system as described above may be representative of any number of physical or virtual server computers. Likewise each instance of a database may be representative of a plurality of databases. In addition it should be appreciated that in various embodiments each instance of a network such as for example the network can be viewed as an abstraction of multiple distinct networks. For example the network can include one or multiple communications networks such as for example public or private intranets a public switch telephone network PSTN a cellular network the Internet and or the like.

The DHCP server s can be used to assign IP addresses and other parameters to the communication endpoints on an as needed basis. In various embodiments the DHCP server s eliminates the need to manually configure each communication endpoint with a static IP address. Advantageously in certain embodiments the DHCP server s can also pass information to the communication endpoints such as for example IP addresses associated with one or more of the communication managers a file server or other component of the endpoint managers etc. Table 1 below lists examples of parameters and settings that in some implementations can be provided to one or more of the communication endpoints by the DHCP server s .

The user system s can be a computer system usable by an administrator super user or other user to access one or more of the endpoint managers . The user system s can be a cellular phone a smart phone a two way land mobile radio a radio base station controller a wearable or body borne computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA combinations of same and or the like. In certain embodiments the user system s is an example of a computer system that can be used to administer the communication endpoints . For example in various embodiments the user system s can access a web interface an application programming interface API or other interface of one or more of the endpoint managers for purposes of triggering a dynamic modification to a serving site of one or more of the communication endpoints .

The components of the computer system may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation the computer system may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a wearable or body borne computer a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate the computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. For example in certain embodiments all or part of the endpoint managers or the serving sites can reside in a cloud.

In the depicted embodiment the computer system includes a processor memory storage interface and bus . Although a particular computer system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

Processor may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to execute either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory the application . Such functionality may include providing various features discussed herein. In particular embodiments processor may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up the application . As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by the computer system including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

As an example and not by way of limitation the computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to the computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. In addition in certain embodiments the application is operable to establish or update configurations in a data store on the storage . The data store can be a database flat file and or the like. The configurations can include for example any data described herein as being stored in a data store.

In particular embodiments interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication among any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

Depending on the embodiment interface may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which computer system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system can include or communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system can include or communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. By way of further example the interface can utilize communication via various other types of wireless communication such as infrared IR communication radio frequency RF communication communication via direct electrical connections etc. In general the computer system may include any suitable interface for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and the computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interfaces for them. Where appropriate interface may include one or more drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface may include one or more interfaces where appropriate.

Bus may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of the computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C C Python Java Swift or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level scripting language such as Perl or JavaScript.

With reference to the application services in certain embodiments the message module is operable to push messages to communication endpoints such as the communication endpoints of . In various embodiments the messages can take the form of text messages published to a display of the communication endpoints audio messages video messages combinations of same and or the like.

The cache engine can function as a database memory cache and holds shared and runtime data for other server instances within the system. Runtime and shared data can include transient critical and operational data structures. In some implementations the cache engine can be configured to run with one or multiple instances on local or remote nodes. In some embodiments the failover of the cache engine is transparent and does not impact functionality of the endpoint manager . In an example one instance of the cache engine could be configured for each of the application server s of . In another example two instances of the cache engine can be used to provide high availability. In some embodiments the database engine can provide failover in the event that all instances of the cache engine become unavailable.

The database engine can be used to provide a permanent repository for the system configuration and operation alarms and reporting endpoint configuration user authentications serving sites and lines of business sometimes referred to herein as a primary database . The database engine can house such data for example in the data store s . The database engine can store in the data store s data such as for example administration and configuration data information related to system or service failure alarms and any information needed for reporting.

In another example the database engine can store in the data store s an endpoint profile for each of the communication endpoints . The endpoint profiles can identify the communication endpoints and indicate a policy for selecting a serving site of the serving sites . In some cases each policy can include a rule or set of rules for selecting an alternative serving site when a preferred serving site of the serving sites is down.

In yet another example the database engine can store in the data store s a category profile for each category of an endpoint management hierarchy. The category profile can identify the category e.g. residential banking and indicate a policy for selecting a serving site of the serving sites . In some cases each policy can include a rule or set of rules for selecting an alternative serving site when a preferred serving site of the serving sites is down.

In still another example the database engine can store in the data store s a serving site profile for each of the serving sites . For a given serving site the serving site profiles can identify the site and indicate endpoint configuration requirements for endpoints utilizing that serving site. The serving site profiles can indicate for example a required firmware version or range of versions a required version of application software or range of versions combinations of same and or the like.

It should be appreciated that the foregoing description of data that can be stored in the data store s is merely for illustrative purposes. The data store s can store any profiles or information related to serving sites such as the serving sites of communication managers such as the communication managers of application servers such as the application server s of administrators and other users communication endpoints such as the communication endpoint s of management hierarchies such as lines of business or other groupings combinations of same and or the like. In some implementations the database engine can be integrated with directory services utilized by an enterprise e.g. via Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP .

In some embodiments the replicator can maintain a high availability disaster recovery HADR database instance in the data store s . In various embodiments the HADR database instance can be synchronized with one or more other databases in the data store s . In some embodiments the endpoint manager can operate and perform endpoint switchover and recovery while its primary database is down. In various implementations the HADR backup database instance can be started by an administrator super user or other user to restore system operation upon failure of the primary database.

In certain embodiments the administration module can be a central administration process that manages the endpoint manager . In general the administration module can start stop processes display process status memory usage and ping other application processes for validation. In some implementations the administration module can be configured to run with one or multiple instances on any local or remote nodes. Advantageously in some implementations the failover of the administration module can be transparent so as to not impact functionality of the endpoint manager .

In certain embodiments the administration module can further allow administrators super users or other users to remotely manage application servers such as the application server s application services such as the application services and or other components. In an example the administration module can be or include a three tier enterprise web application. According to this example the administration module can provide streamlined access to the endpoint manager . For example in some implementation one or more instances of the administration server or a component thereof can be configured for each of the application server s of .

In certain embodiments the event module can provide the logging and reporting facilities. For example the event module can write log data or filtered log data to global log files. In some implementations if the event module is unavailable applications and processes can log and report issues to local log files until the event module becomes available. In certain embodiments the event module can be configured to run with one or multiple instances on any local or remote nodes. The failover of the event module can be transparent so as to not impact functionality of the endpoint manager . For example one or more instances of the event module can be configured for each of the application server s of . In many cases the application server s can load balance event reports among each instance of the event module via an internal process priority argument list that is defined in process configuration and loaded from a database e.g. in the data store s during server initialization.

In certain embodiments the system manager provides access to system administration. For example in some implementations the system manager can reset communication endpoints such as the communication endpoints of . In some embodiments the system manager can be configured to run with one or multiple instances of an application server such as the application server s of . In some implementations failover of the system manager can be transparent so as to not impact functionality of the endpoint manager . For example one or more instances of the system manager can be configured for each of the application server s of . In some embodiments transaction loading can balanced among all instances of the system manager through a priority argument list that is defined in process configuration and loaded from a database e.g. in the data store s during server initialization.

In certain embodiments the telephony engine provides access to endpoint telephony state information using for example remote method invocation. In some implementations the telephony engine can provide functionality for communicating with digital communication services provided for example by the serving sites of . In an example the telephony engine can issue commands to query and or control communication endpoints such as the communication endpoints of . The telephony engine can provide managed commands and forced methods to control the communication endpoints . In some cases the forced command can check for endpoint meta state e.g. active or idle and only issue the command when a given communication endpoint is active. In other cases such checks can be admitted. In some embodiments the administration module the telephony engine or another component can provide a dashboard or console that makes real time endpoint meta state information e.g. active or idle visible to administrators super users or other users prior to commands being issued.

The telephony engine can be configured to run with one or multiple instances on local or remote nodes. In some implementations failover of the telephony engine can be transparent so as to not impact functionality of the endpoint manager . For example one or more instances of the telephony engine can be configured for each of the application server s of . In some embodiments transaction loading can balanced among all instances of the telephony engine through a priority argument list that is defined in process configuration and loaded from a database e.g. in the data store s during server initialization.

The file server can access and maintain configurations . In some embodiments the configurations can include one or more sets of files such as for example settings files firmware files security certificates application software files installation script files for any of the foregoing combinations of same and or the like. In certain embodiments the file server can vend configurations that a given communication endpoint needs to connect to a specific serving site.

More particularly in the illustrated embodiment the endpoint manager can configure each of the example endpoint categories to be assigned to or receive digital communication services from any one of the serving sites . In that way endpoints belonging to the endpoint categories can be registered to receive digital communication services from the assigned serving site. In certain cases assignments can be initiated by the endpoint manager and or the user computer system . Additionally in certain embodiments a particular category can be triggered so as to dynamically assign the serving site to all communication endpoints of the particular category.

At the communication endpoint requests that the DHCP server provide certain information such as for example a network identifier of the endpoint manager or a component thereof. For example in some embodiments the network identifier can be an IP address a fully qualified domain name a uniform resource locator URL combinations of same and or the like. At the DHCP server returns the requested information to the communication endpoint .

At the communication endpoint using the information returned from the DHCP server requests endpoint configurations from the endpoint manager or a component thereof . The requested endpoint configurations can include for example settings files security profiles and certificates firmware files application software files installation script files combinations of same and or the like. In general can further include the endpoint manager determining from an endpoint profile of the communication endpoint in the database which serving site and corresponding communication manager will be providing digital communication service to the communication endpoint . For purposes of the example of the corresponding communication manager is the communication manager . Further can include determining from a serving site profile in the database endpoint configuration requirements of the communication manager .

At the endpoint manager sends to the communication endpoint configurations that satisfy the endpoint configuration requirements of the communication manager . The configurations can include for example a firmware file a security profile security certificate s an application software file a settings file a script file for installing any of the foregoing combinations of same and or the like. The settings file can include for example a reference to the communication manager and or its corresponding serving site. In various embodiments the configurations can be retrieved from stored configurations such as the configurations of . In some embodiments prior to at least a portion of the configurations being sent to the communication endpoint the endpoint manager can determine whether new configurations are needed. In these embodiments if certain configurations are not needed e.g. because the communication endpoint already has satisfactory firmware and or application software the endpoint manager can omit sending such configurations.

At the communication endpoint sends a registration request to the communication manager . At the communication endpoint receives a registration confirmation from the communication manager . At the communication endpoint logs into an endpoint IP address MAC address and or telephone extension associated with a user of the communication endpoint . Responsive to successful login at the communication endpoint receives a login confirmation from the communication manager . At the communication endpoint notifies the endpoint manager of the successful login at which point the endpoint manager can log the successful login in the database .

At the communication endpoint requests that the DHCP server provide certain information such as for example a network identifier of the endpoint manager or a component thereof. For example in some embodiments the network identifier can be an IP address a fully qualified domain name a uniform resource locator URL combinations of same and or the like. At the DHCP server returns the requested information to the communication endpoint .

At the communication endpoint using the information returned from the DHCP server requests endpoint configurations from the endpoint manager or a component thereof . The requested endpoint configurations can include for example settings files security profiles security certificates firmware files software files installation script files combinations of same and or the like. In general can further include the endpoint manager attempting to determine from an endpoint profile of the communication endpoint in the database which serving site and corresponding communication manager will be providing digital communication service to the communication endpoint . In the illustrated embodiment the communication manager is either not known for example because no category of an endpoint management hierarchy has been specified for the communication endpoint .

At responsive to the communication manager and corresponding serving site of the communication endpoint not being known the endpoint manager assigns a default serving site and corresponding communication manager to the communication endpoint . For purposes of the example of the corresponding communication manager is the communication manager . Further can include determining from a serving site profile in the database endpoint configuration requirements of the communication manager .

At the endpoint manager sends to the communication endpoint configurations that satisfy the endpoint configuration requirements of the communication manager . The configurations can include for example a firmware file a security profile one or more security certificates a software file a settings file a script file for installing any of the foregoing combinations of same and or the like. The settings file can include for example a reference to the communication and or its corresponding serving site. In various embodiments the configurations can be retrieved from stored configurations such as the configurations of . In some embodiments prior to at least a portion of the configurations being sent to the communication endpoint the endpoint manager can determine whether new configurations are needed. In these embodiments if certain configurations are not needed e.g. because the communication endpoint already has satisfactory firmware and or application software the endpoint manager can omit sending such configurations.

At the communication endpoint sends a registration request to the communication manager . At the communication endpoint receives a registration confirmation from the communication manager . At the communication endpoint logs into a telephone extension associated with a user of the communication endpoint . Responsive to successful login at the communication endpoint receives a login confirmation from the communication manager . At the communication endpoint notifies the endpoint manager of the successful login at which point the endpoint manager can log the successful login in the database .

At block the endpoint manager receives a trigger to dynamically modify a serving site of one or more of the communication endpoints of . In a typical embodiment the communication endpoints are each registered to receive digital communication service such as VoIP service from a particular serving site of the serving sites of .

The trigger to dynamically modify a serving site can relate to a single communication endpoint or a group of communication endpoints. For example the group can correspond to category of an endpoint management hierarchy such as for example a line of business. In a more particular example a line of business or category of credit card services could have a set of child nodes which correspond to communication endpoints belonging to or associated with users in that line of business or category . According to this example the trigger could be received in relation to the line of business of credit card services such that all child nodes of that line of business would be affected by the trigger. In some cases the trigger can be received as a result of a failure of a serving site an endpoint power reset cable disconnection network failure a failure of that serving site s communication manager other failures combinations of same and or the like. In other cases an administrator using the user system s of can cause the trigger via the administration module of .

At block the endpoint manager determines communication endpoint s that are subject to the trigger. For example if the trigger specifies particular communication endpoint s by name or other identifier the endpoint manager can determine those communication endpoints to be subject to the trigger. By way of further example if the trigger relates to a particular category of an endpoint management hierarchy the block can include the endpoint manager determining from the data store s which communication endpoints belong to that category.

At block the endpoint manager determines a stored selection policy or policies for the communication endpoints which are subject to the trigger. In certain embodiments the block can include accessing endpoint profiles and or category profiles of the type described above. In an example the selection policy can be specified in an endpoint profile for each endpoint and or in a category specified for a category of communication endpoints. In certain embodiments selections made in profiles for particular endpoints can take precedence over selections made in profiles for particular endpoint categories in an endpoint management hierarchy.

At block the endpoint manager selects a new serving site according to the stored selection policy or policies. At block the endpoint manager determines endpoint configuration requirements of the new serving site or more specifically of a corresponding communication manager at the serving site . In certain embodiments the endpoint configuration requirements can be determined as described in relation to . At block the endpoint manager automatically generates endpoint configurations that satisfy the endpoint configuration requirements of the new serving site. In certain embodiments the block can include accessing and retrieving configurations stored in the configurations .

At block the endpoint manager automatically writes the endpoint configurations to the communication endpoints which are subject to the trigger. In some embodiments prior to at least a portion of the configurations being sent to the communication endpoints the endpoint manager can determine whether new configurations are needed. In these embodiments if certain configurations are not needed e.g. because the communication endpoints already have satisfactory firmware and or application software the endpoint manager can omit sending such configurations.

At block the endpoint manager causes the communication endpoints which are subject to the trigger to register to receive digital communication service from the new serving site. In various embodiments the block can include causing the communication endpoints to perform functionality described with respect to of .

At block validation can be performed. In general validation can result in confirmation that registration was successful and that the new serving site is providing digital communication service to each of the communication endpoints subject to the trigger. In some embodiments the validation can include the communication endpoints automatically sending a confirmation message to the endpoint manager . In addition or alternatively the validation can include the endpoint manager affirmatively requesting such confirmation for example by polling the communication endpoints and or the new serving site. In some embodiments the block can be omitted.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially. Although certain computer implemented tasks are described as being performed by a particular entity other embodiments are possible in which these tasks are performed by a different entity.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

