---

title: Automatic PIN creation using password
abstract: A PIN is automatically generated based on at least one rule when the user enters a password through a user device. In one example, the PIN is a truncated version of the password where each character in the truncated version is mapped onto a number. The mapping can be a truncation at the beginning or end of the password, or the mapping can be with any pattern or sequence of characters in the password. This PIN generation may be transparent to the user, such that the user may not even know the PIN was generated when the password was entered. When the user attempts to access restricted content, the user may enter the PIN instead of the password, where the user may be notified of the rule used to generate the PIN so that the user will know the PIN by knowing the password.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460278&OS=09460278&RS=09460278
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09460278
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150318
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 271 266 filed on May 6 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 728 926 filed on Dec. 27 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 281 273 filed on Oct. 25 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 756 652 which are related to and claim priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Appl. Ser. No. 61 409 869 filed on Nov. 3 2010 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to Personal Identification Number PIN creation and more particularly to automatic creation of PINs.

PINs or Personal Identification Numbers are used to identify or authenticate a user such as at an ATM machine to access account information such as through a smart phone a computer or PC or through a telephone. PINs are typically preferred by the user for use on phones or other devices having numerical keypads. One reason is that PINs are shorter and therefore faster to enter. Another is that PINs typically have fewer characters i.e. only 0 9 which means that these keys can be made larger and therefore easier for the user to enter on a device. Further yet PINs which do not require a full QWERTY keyboard are suitable for smaller numeric keypads.

However PINs are typically less secure than passwords because each digit of a PIN only has 10 possibilities 0 9 while each digit of a password can have 52 possibilities letters A Z both upper and lower case or more if other characters such as numbers and symbols are also available. Furthermore PINs are less secure because they typically exhibit stronger patterns for ease of memory by the user e.g. it has been reported that one in five users choose their PIN as a date. Since there are only 365 days in a year this clearly does not take advantage of the full potential of all the 10000 combinations afforded by having four digit PINs.

There are many other reasons why PINs have slight drawbacks such as being harder to remember unless the user chooses an easily remembered pattern such as a date .

A further disadvantage of PINs is that users may be required to create or generate a new PIN for access through a mobile device or device with a numerical keypad even though the user already has a password for access through the user s PC laptop or home work computer. This results in a more difficult on boarding process for the user which may lead to the user reducing or even eliminating use on affected mobile applications. Even if a user decides to create a PIN the user may need to first enter a password through the mobile device thereby exposing the password to possible fraudsters. This can be problematic as mobile environments tend to be less secure than non mobile environments.

Therefore there is a need for a PIN generation that overcomes the disadvantages of conventional methods discussed above.

In one embodiment of the present invention a PIN is generated automatically when the user enters a password through a user device such as a PC or laptop. The PIN is a truncated version of the password where each letter or character is mapped onto a number and where as a result the PIN digits correspond to the characters of the password. The truncation can be from the beginning or the end of the password or any other well defined portion such as from the third character of the password. It can also be a specific sequence e.g. the first third fourth and sixth character of the password. Also the length of the PIN may vary depending on system requirements and other factors. In one embodiment the truncation is the first four characters of the password. For example if the password is BeEF7gulP the automatically generated PIN is 2333 which corresponds to the first four characters of the password mapped onto digits. The remaining characters 7gulP are not used. This PIN generation may be transparent to the user. In other words the user may not even know the PIN was generated when the password was entered.

When the user attempts to log in or obtain access through a mobile device or other device utilizing a numerical keypad which may also contain characters the user may be notified that the PIN to enter is the first four characters of the user s password but mapped to numbers on the keypad. Thus the user enters 2333 to log in the site associated with the password BeEF7gulP .

As a result the user has a PIN that is easily remembered without having to create a PIN separately. This provides the user with a more friction less experience. In addition the PIN entered into the device will be difficult for a fraudster to determine the associated password since the PIN is shorter and not a complete representation of the password. Furthermore since each number of the PIN can map to seven different possibilities the digit itself three upper case letters and three lower case letters and in the case of the number 9 nine possibilities the digit and four letters upper and lower case . Foreign keyboards may have slightly different mappings due to different alphabets but the same principles apply.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

A user may have many different accounts or sites that require a password for entry or access. A user may have one password for all a few passwords for all or a different password for each account or site. Typically if the user has numerous accounts a few passwords are used for all the accounts with some passwords used with multiple different accounts.

When the user accesses an account or site such as through the user s PC smart phone tablet or laptop the user enters the requested password. If the site authenticates the password and a PIN had not been previously created the site automatically creates a PIN if applicable with the password by converting characters which may include letters numbers and symbols to numbers and truncating if needed. This depends on the site requirements and other factors. For example if the site requires a six number PIN for mobile devices or other devices then the password is truncated to a six number PIN. If the user password only has six characters there is no truncation. Thus the length of the PIN and the amount of truncation may vary from site to site and from password to password. If the password is not long enough to create a PIN of the desired format or length or contains characters that cannot be mapped such as then there may be no mapping. Alternatively a shorter temporary PIN may be created or another selection can be used in order to avoid the characters that cannot be mapped. Alternatively the user may be instructed how to map these characters e.g. any character that is not found on the keypad is entered as the digit 0 and the corresponding mapping done on the backend as the PIN is first derived from the password.

Where the truncation occurs may also vary. In different embodiments the end of the password is truncated the beginning is truncated the ends are truncated and or the interior is truncated. Truncation may also vary depending on the password. For example if a default truncation is the end i.e. PIN mapping starts at the beginning of the password but the relevant portions of the password in the beginning cannot be mapped e.g. contains symbols a PIN may still be created using another portion of the password such as the end of the password in this case the beginning of the password is truncated . It may be preferred to start at the beginning of the password end truncation to make it easier for the user to remember and enter the PIN.

There may be situations where a PIN cannot be created from the user password. For example the password may contain less characters than the required PIN or the password may contain characters that cannot be mapped to numbers such as symbols or punctuation marks. There may also be situations where a PIN should not be created from the user password due to policy or security reasons. For example if the password contains numbers that correspond to the PIN the PIN may not be created because such a PIN could be easily determined or obtained by fraudsters. Also it is possible that a password is strong but results in a PIN that is traditionally seen as weak. For example the password 0123joeCanFlyn0w may be strong but the derived PIN 0123 may be considered weak. In such cases the derived PIN may be considered unsuitable and not stored or a different policy used.

Table 1 below provides some examples of PIN generation for different rules. It is possible for one financial organization to create multiple PINs from one user password using potentially different rules for each. This way there can be one PIN for ATMs one for mobile applications etc. This will not be a big burden for the user who will determine how to map his her password on an as needed basis. It may improve the security of the system though as it slightly compartmentalizes PINs.

If a successful PIN has been generated the site stores the PIN and associates the PIN with the user account. PINs can be stored in a secured format such as what is done with passwords. This makes it harder for an attacker gaining access to an internal password or PIN database to extract the clear text passwords and PINs. If a PIN cannot or is not created no PIN is stored and the user will still have to log in using a password through the mobile device or create a PIN .

After PIN creation the user accesses a mobile application App or site through the mobile device such as through a mobile web. Note that other devices may also be suitable here such as Coinstar terminals POS terminals ATMs and other devices having a numerical keypad on which letters have been overlaid or included such as a typical telephone keypad. The user is asked to enter a PIN and informed of the rule for mapping the password to the PIN. For example the user may be notified to use the first X characters of the user s password mapped to numbers on the keypad. This notification may occur only on the first time the user logs in with the PIN or at each log in session.

The user then enters the numbers and the site attempts to authenticate the PIN which includes comparing the entered PIN with what was stored previously during PIN creation. If the PIN and user are authorized the site provides access to the user without the user having to enter a password or create a PIN.

If the user changes the password at some time the site may retain the previously created PIN ask the user whether they wish to retain the PIN or have the site generate a new PIN based on the new password or automatically generate a new password from the new PIN when the user first uses the new password through a user device such as a PC or laptop. Two possible PINs the old one and the new one can both be temporarily stored and selected the first time the user inputs one of them. Then only the one entered by the user will be subsequently accepted. This way if a user has started to remember his her PIN by the numbers as opposed to performing the mapping each time then a password change will not cause the PIN to change.

If a PIN has not been created for the user the user may be asked to enter the password into the device for access. The user may then be asked to create a PIN through the device or a PIN is automatically created as discussed above.

At step the service provider receives a password from the user again through the user device. Step may be performed at the same time as step . For example the user may see a log in screen upon accessing the service provider where the log in screen requests the user to enter the user identifier and the password into designated fields or boxes. The password may be received from any user device.

Once received the service provider determines at step whether the password is valid. This determination may include determining whether the received password matches the password associated with the user account maintained by the service provider. If not the service provider may request the user to enter the password and or user identifier again. If the service provider is unable to match the password with what is expected after a specified number of attempts the user will be denied access and the process ends.

If the password is valid the service provider determines at step whether a PIN creation rule can be applied. The service provider may analyze the received password and one or more acceptable rules to determine if the rule can be used for the particular password. For example using Table 1 above if the rule for PIN creation is to use the first four characters but the password received was Rd CarTNT then the applicable rule cannot be applied because there is no mapping of the symbol to a number. In this case the process ends and no automatic PIN creation is created. In another embodiment the service provider may attempt to apply a different rule to the password so that a PIN can be generated. For example there may be a rule that maps the symbol to a number or a rule may be applied that utilizes the last four characters of the password. In the latter case a PIN can be generated as 7868 .

If a rule can be applied as determined at step the password is first truncated according to the rule at step . As discussed herein the password can be truncated at the beginning at the end somewhere in the interior or following a particular sequence. After truncation the remaining characters of the password are mapped to a number at step again according to the rule. Letters may be mapped to corresponding numbers on a standard number pad. Symbols and other non letters may be mapped to specific numbers. For example a rule may map the following symbols to 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 respectively. This corresponds to the numbers associated with the particular symbol on a standard QWERTY keypad. Other mappings may also be possible for different rules. The PIN is thus generated or created after step .

Once generated the PIN is stored at step such as within a database managed by or accessible to the service provider. The PIN is associated with the user account and password. In one embodiment prior to storage the service provider may determine whether the generated PIN is acceptable such as based on security reasons as discussed above. For example the generated PIN may be 1234 which may be unacceptable to the service provider due to its ease of discovery by fraudsters. In this case the PIN may not be stored even though it was created. The user therefore will still need to use the user s password or create a PIN as with conventional methods.

If no PIN was created using the process described herein the user may be asked to enter a password for the account in order to access the account content or site. The user may enter the password in a field on the user device such as by typing it into a keyboard keypad. The user may also enter the password by voice. Once entered the user communicates the password through the user device to the service provider who then receives the password at step .

The service provider determines if the password is the correct one associated with the user account. If so a PIN is created based on the password at step . PIN creation can be based on various rules as discussed herein and in such as mapping the first four characters of the password to numbers. If a valid PIN can be created the PIN is stored at step such that the user account is now associated with both a password and a PIN even though the user did not actually create or pick the PIN. The service provider may create the PIN without the user knowing or having to do anything since the PIN generation can be automatically created using system rules. Once created the user is provided access at step . Note that the user may be provided access as soon as the user s password received at step has been verified by the service provider. Steps and for PIN creation and storage can be done during or after access is granted.

Returning back to step if a PIN has been created for the user such as subsequent times the user attempts to access content from the service provider after steps and have been performed the user may be notified at step through the user device that the user can access the content or login using a PIN instead of the user s password. The notification may inform the user that a PIN has been created and is available for use in place of the password. The notification may be a one time notification that occurs the first time a user attempts to login after the PIN is created. In other embodiments the notification may be continuous or provided at intervals such as informing the user that the user can login using the password or a PIN. The notification may be triggered any time the PIN changes such as the user changing the user s password which may automatically create a new PIN based on rules. The notification may also include a rule or instructions to the user for converting the user password to a PIN. This is needed especially for the first time the user decides to login using the PIN because the user will not know what the PIN is since the PIN was created automatically from the user password. For example the user may be informed that the PIN is the first four characters of the user s password mapped into corresponding numbers a PIN or keypad.

The user then enters the PIN such as through a PIN or keypad from the user s device. After entry the PIN may be transmitted electronically to the service provider who then receives the PIN at step . Note that in different embodiments the user information and the PIN may be received through the same transmission. In this case when the user attempts to access content from a service provider or site the user enters in a user ID and the PIN at the same time. The service provider may then access the user s account to determine whether a PIN is associated with the user s account and whether the PIN received from the user is the correct one associated with the account.

Regardless of the sequence when the PIN is received the service provider determines whether the PIN is valid at step . This can be done by comparing the received PIN with the PIN stored with the service provider and corresponding to the user account. If the PIN is valid the user is provided access at step .

However if the PIN is not valid which may be the result of the user entering a wrong PIN even though the user is the correct user associated with the account. This may happen if the user misunderstands the rule for converting the password to the PIN or the user simply erroneously enters the PIN. The user may be given the option of reentering the PIN or entering the password. If the latter the user enters the password such as through key entry on the user device and transmits the password to the service provider.

The service provider receives the user entered password at step and determines whether the received password is valid at step . The determination may include comparing the received password with the password associated with the user account. If the password is valid the user may be provided access at step . If the password or PIN is not valid after a specified number of attempts the user will not be given access until the user can be authenticated.

The PIN may remain the same as long as the password remains unchanged. However the PIN may change in different embodiments to increase security. For example the user may be given different rules at different times. For example the user may initially be given the rule to map the first four characters of the password to numbers. At another time the user may be given the rule to map the last four characters to numbers. The times may vary or be periodic. The times may be based on the number of times a user accesses the service provider the duration between successive accesses or other metrics.

Thus using the process described herein a user may be able to access content such as a user account a site or other restricted areas by entering a PIN instead of a password. This makes it easier for the user since a PIN is typically shorter and can be easily entered through a numerical PIN pad. The PIN can be remembered by the user because it is based on the user password so that the user does not need to remember a separate PIN and password. The user may be given a rule for converting the password to the PIN so that the user may not even need to remember the rule. The PIN can be more secure because it may change even when the password does not change.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client mobile device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client mobile device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless mobile computing devices. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments client mobile device may be referred to as a user device or a customer client device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Client mobile device in one embodiment may include one or more browser applications such as mobile browser apps which may be used to provide a user interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . In one implementation browser application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the payment provider server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user is able to access websites to find and purchase items as well as access user account information or web content. User through client mobile device may also communicate with payment provider server to create an account and make a payment to the merchant.

As such client mobile device in one embodiment may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a user account with payment provider server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through the payment provider and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile Apps downloaded and resident on client mobile device that enables user to access content through the Apps.

Client computing device which can be similar to client mobile device may be a separate device such as a PC or laptop or may be omitted if the user will be using only client mobile device for automatic PIN generation. Both user devices may be used to access content with the payment service provider or other content provider through automatic PIN generation.

Client computing device in one embodiment may include a browser application and other applications similar to browser application and applications in client mobile device . Browser application and applications enable the user to access a payment provider web site and communicate with payment provider server as well as other online sites.

Payment provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by an online payment provider which may provide processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of user . Payment provider server may include at least one identity application which may be adapted to interact with the client mobile device and or client computing device over network to facilitate access to accounts and the purchase of items products and or services by user .

Payment provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain a plurality of user accounts in an account database each of which may include or be separate from an account information associated with individual users including user . For example account information may include identity information of user such as one or more full names business names street addresses email addresses and phone numbers website addresses or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions for user as well as password and or PIN for users. As such identity application may be configured to interact with a user to authenticate the user through a password or PIN and automatically generate and store a PIN from the password. Payment provider server may also include a rules processor that automatically generates a user PIN based on the user password applies or varies rules as needed and manages the access of the user through the generated PINs.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a smart phone personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard and a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

Computer system may perform specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component such as described above with respect to the user and or payment provider in . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and a communication interface . Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

