---

title: Electronic device having a tray for accommodating cards
abstract: An electronic device that accommodates a plurality of cards is provided. The electronic device includes a first contact area connected to a first card among the plurality of cards and a second contact area selectively connected to one of a second card or a third card among the plurality of cards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09647359&OS=09647359&RS=09647359
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09647359
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20151203
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application Serial No. 10 2014 0172417 filed on Dec. 3 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to an electronic device including a tray for accommodating a plurality of cards.

Electronic devices e.g. smart phones tablets etc. perform a variety of communications e.g. a voice call a video conference a data communication etc. and output image data such as a picture a video etc. An electronic device performs the communications in accordance with information stored in a subscriber identification card e.g. a universal subscriber identity module USIM a subscriber identity module SIM installed therein and stores data in the subscriber identification card. In addition the electronic device accommodates a memory card e.g. a Micro SD card which differs from the subscriber identification card.

To install the subscriber identification card or the memory card in a conventional electronic device the electronic device must include a card connector to accommodate each card and a tray to accommodate the card connector. However the card connector and the tray are typically designed for each specific corresponding type of card thereby requiring additional space when more than type of one card is utilized.

The present disclosure has been made to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure provides an electronic device capable of substantially simultaneously installing and utilizing a plurality of cards which are the same type of card or are different types of cards using a single card connector.

An aspect of the present disclosure provides an electronic device for accommodating a plurality of cards with the electronic device including a first contact area connected to a first card among the plurality of cards and a second contact area selectively connected to one of a second card and a third card among the plurality of cards.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides an electronic device that includes a tray in which a plurality of cards is installed and a card connector which accommodates the tray with the card connector including a first contact area electrically connected to a first card installed in a first card area of the tray and a second contact area selectively connected to one of a second card and a third card which is installed in a second card area of the tray.

A further aspect of the present disclosure provides a tray that is insertable into an electronic device with the tray including a first card area accommodating a first card and a second card area having a shape corresponding to each of the first card and a second card to accommodate at least one of the first card and the second card.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to accompanying drawings. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that modifications changes and alternatives to the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. With regard to description of drawings similar components may be marked by similar reference numerals.

As used herein the expressions have may have include and comprise or may include and may comprise indicate existence of corresponding features e.g. elements such as numeric values functions operations or components and do not exclude additional features.

As used herein the expressions A or B at least one of A or and B or one or more of A or and B and the like used herein may include any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. For example the term A or B at least one of A and B or at least one of A or B may refer to any or all of the case 1 where at least one A is included the case 2 where at least one B is included or the case 3 where both of at least one A and at least one B are included.

The terms first second and the like used herein may refer to various elements of the present disclosure but do not limit the configuration of elements. For example such terms do not limit the order and or priority of the elements. Furthermore such terms may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices. For example without departing the scope of the present disclosure a first element may be referred to as a second element and similarly a second element may be referred to as a first element.

It will be understood that when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected to another element e.g. a second element the element can be directly coupled with to or connected to the other element or an intervening element e.g. a third element may be present. In contrast when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being directly coupled with to or directly connected to another element e.g. a second element it should be understood that no intervening element e.g. a third element exists.

According to the situation the expression configured to used herein may be used as for example the expression suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of . The term configured to does not mean only specifically designed to in hardware. Instead the expression a device configured to indicates what the device is capable of for example in regards to operating together with another device or other components. For example a processor configured to perform A B and C may mean a dedicated processor e.g. an embedded processor for performing a corresponding operation or a generic purpose processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU or an application processor which may perform corresponding operations by executing one or more software programs which are stored in a memory device.

Terms used to describe specified embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. The terms of a singular form may include plural forms unless otherwise specified. Unless otherwise defined herein all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms may have the same meanings that are generally understood by a person skilled in the art. It will be further understood that terms which are defined in a dictionary and commonly used should also be interpreted as is customary in the relevant related art and not in an idealized or overly formal detect unless expressly so defined herein. In some cases even if terms are defined herein the terms are not to be interpreted to exclude embodiments of the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may include at least one of smartphones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video telephones electronic book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers workstations servers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 Audio Layer 3 MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras wearable devices e.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses an electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos smart mirrors smart bands smart watches and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may be smart home appliances. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions TVs digital versatile disc DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles e.g. Xbox and PlayStation electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders electronic picture frames and the like.

According to the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of medical devices e.g. various portable medical measurement devices e.g. a blood glucose monitoring device a heartbeat measuring device a blood pressure measuring device a body temperature measuring device and the like a magnetic resonance angiography MRA a magnetic resonance imaging MRI a computed tomography CT scanners and ultrasonic devices receiving a user input in an idle mode navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices electronic equipment for vessels e.g. navigation systems and gyrocompasses avionics security devices head units for vehicles industrial or home robots automatic teller machines ATMs points of sales POS devices or Internet of Things e.g. light bulbs various sensors electric or gas meters sprinkler devices fire alarms thermostats street lamps toasters exercise equipment hot water tanks heaters boilers and the like .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of furniture or buildings structures electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring instruments e.g. water meters electricity meters gas meters or wave meters and the like . Electronic devices according to the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of the above mentioned devices. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a flexible electronic device. Also electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the above mentioned devices and may include new electronic devices according to the development of new technologies.

Hereinafter electronic devices according to the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used herein may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or may refer to a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device. The same or similar components may be designated by the same or similar reference numerals although they are illustrated in different drawings. Detailed descriptions of constructions or processes known in the art may be omitted to avoid obscuring the subject matter of the present invention.

The bus may interconnect the above described components to and may be a circuit for conveying communications e.g. a control message and or data among the above described components.

The processor may include one or more of a central processing unit CPU an application processor AP or a communication processor CP . The processor may perform for example data processing or an operation associated with control or communication of at least one other component s of the electronic device .

The memory may include a volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may store instructions or data associated with at least one other component s of the electronic device .

The memory may store software and or a program . The program may include for example a kernel middleware an application programming interface API and or an application or an application program . At least a portion of the kernel the middleware or the API may be referred to as operating system OS .

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like that are used to execute operations or functions of other programs e.g. the middleware the API and the application program . Furthermore the kernel may provide an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application program to access discrete components of the electronic device to control or manage system resources. The middleware may perform a mediation role such that the API or the application program communicates with the kernel to exchange data.

Furthermore the middleware may prioritize the processing of task requests received from the application program . For example the middleware may assign the priority which makes it possible to use a system resource e.g. the bus the processor the memory or the like of the electronic device to at least one application program . For example the middleware may process the one or more task requests according to the priority assigned to the task which makes it possible to perform scheduling or load balancing on the one or more task requests.

The API may be an interface through which the application program controls a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for a file control a window control image processing a character control or the like.

The I O interface may transmit an instruction or data input from a user or another external device to other component s of the electronic device . Furthermore the I O interface may output an instruction or data received from other component s of the electronic device to a user or another external device.

The display may include for example a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display or a microelectromechanical systems MEMS display or an electronic paper display. The display may display for example various contents e.g. a text an image a video an icon a symbol and the like to a user. The display may include a touch screen and may receive for example a touch gesture proximity or hovering input using an electronic pen stylus or a portion of a user s body such as a finger.

The communication interface may establish communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device or a server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless communication or wired communication to communicate with the external electronic device or the server .

The wireless communication may include at least one of for example long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telephone system UMTs wireless broadband WiBro global system for mobile communications GSM or the like as cellular communication protocol. The wired communication may include at least one of for example a universal serial bus USB a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a recommended standard 132 RS 132 or plain old telephone service POTS . The network may include at least one of telecommunications networks for example a computer network e.g. LAN or WAN an Internet or a telephone network.

Each of the first and second external electronic devices and may be a device of which the type is different from or the same as that of the electronic device . According to the present disclosure the server may include a group of one or more servers. According to the present disclosure all or a part of operations that the electronic device will perform may be executed by another or plural electronic devices e.g. the electronic devices and and the server . If the electronic device executes any function or service automatically or in response to a request the electronic device may not perform the function or the service internally but alternatively or additionally may request at least a portion of a function associated with the electronic device at another device e.g. the electronic device or or the server . The other electronic device or or the server may execute the requested function or additional function and may transmit the execution result to the electronic device . The electronic device may provide the requested function or service using the received result or may additionally process the received result to provide the requested function or service. To this end for example cloud computing distributed computing or client server computing may be used.

The card recognition module may be equipped with various cards e.g. a subscriber identification card a memory card and the like which the electronic device is able to use. According to the present disclosure the card is inserted through a tray that accommodates a plurality of cards. The tray includes an area i.e. a card area for accommodating one or more cards and the card area may have various shapes corresponding to various types of cards.

In the card recognition module is illustrated as being independent of the processor . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For example at least a portion of a function executed on the card recognition module may be performed by the processor . Alternatively the card recognition module may be included as a portion of the processor .

The card recognition module includes a card connector corresponding to the tray. The card connector includes a contact area for electrical connection with each card which is accommodated on the tray. Furthermore the card connector includes a recognition part to sense the tray or a discharge part to discharge the tray. Information about configuration and operation of the tray and the card connector is provided in .

Referring to an electronic device may accommodate a variety of cards inserted therein. A user may install a subscriber identification card e.g. a USIM card an SIM card etc. or a memory card e.g. an SD card a micro SD card etc. into the electronic device . The electronic device includes a contact area defined therein to electrically connect to the card. Hereinafter the electronic device accommodating the subscriber identification card or the memory card is described but the present disclosure is not so limited.

The subscriber identification card or the memory card is inserted into the electronic device using a tray . The tray has a structure on which the various cards are easily mounted. The tray may be partially or fully inserted into the electronic device . When the tray is fully inserted into the electronic device the tray is not visible from outside the electronic device or may be integral with the electronic device .

The tray includes a plurality of card areas. The user installs a corresponding card in each of the card areas to insert the card into the electronic device . The tray may include at least one hybrid shaped card area i.e. a hybrid card area. The hybrid card area may be but is not limited to one area realized to correspond to the various cards. For instance one of the subscriber identification card and the memory card may be installed the hybrid card area. Detailed descriptions of the hybrid card area are provided in .

The tray is inserted into the electronic device from outside of the electronic device through an opening portion formed in the electronic device . The opening portion is formed through a housing surrounding an outer portion of the electronic device . In the opening portion may be formed through left or right side surfaces of the electronic device but is not so limited. That is the opening portion may be formed through upper or lower side surfaces of the electronic device or through a rear surface of the electronic device . The opening portion may be connected to an entrance of a card connector having a shape corresponding to the shape of the tray .

The tray may be realized in a part of the electronic device . For instance the tray may be realized such that the tray is separated from or inserted into the electronic device in a predetermined distance using a connection device e.g. a string. The user may separate the tray from the electronic device and insert the tray into the electronic device after installing the card on the tray . Hereinafter the tray separately formed from and inserted into the electronic device is mainly described but the present disclosure is not so limited.

Referring to the electronic device includes a card connector accommodated in the housing. The card connector may be installed on and electrically connected to a circuit board included in the electronic device . The tray may be inserted into the electronic device through the entrance of the card connector which is connected to the opening portion in a side of the electronic device .

The tray may include a first card area and a second card area . The tray may include at least one hybrid card area e.g. the second card area . In the tray may include the first card area and the second card area and the second card area may be realized as the hybrid card area but need not be so limited. For instance the first card area may be realized as the hybrid card area or both the first and second card areas and may be realized as the hybrid card area.

The tray may include a groove formed therein. The groove allows the tray to be fixed in the card connector . The groove is provided in one or more locations and is formed at a side surface portion of the tray relative to an insertion direction of the tray as shown in . The groove may be coupled to or separated from a support structure formed at the side surface portion of the card connector .

Hereinafter the first card area will be described as a general card area in which a first card e.g. USIM card is installed and the second card area will be described as the hybrid card area in which a second card e.g. USIM card or a third card e.g. Micro SD card is installed though the present disclosure is not so limited.

The card connector has a shape corresponding to the shape of the tray . The card connector includes contact areas that are each electrically connected to a terminal of a corresponding card of the one or more cards that are inserted into the card connector after being installed in the tray . For instance if the tray includes the hybrid card area among the card areas the card connector may include a contact area corresponding to the general card area and a contact area corresponding to the various cards installed in the hybrid area.

The card connector includes the support structure which couples with the groove of the tray such that the tray is releaseably fixed in the card connector . If the tray is inserted into the card connector the support structure is disposed at a position corresponding to a position of the groove . For instance the support structure is disposed at a side surface of the second card area when the tray is inserted into the card connector .

The support structure can couple with the groove disposed adjacent to the first card area and the tray is thereby maintained in a state in which the tray is partially inserted into the card connector . Alternatively the support structure can couple to the groove disposed adjacent to the second card area and in this case the tray is maintained in a state in which the tray is fully inserted into the card connector .

The support structure may be integrally formed with or may be separate from the card connector . As an example the support structure may be integrally formed with the card connector to form a portion of the card connector . As another example the support structure may be attached to the housing after being separately formed from the housing of the card connector . In this case the support structure may be coupled to or separated from the groove of the tray through a hole formed through the housing.

The card connector may further include a tray recognition part to sense an insertion of the tray and a tray discharge part to discharge the inserted tray as described with reference to .

Referring to the card connector includes a first contact area and a second contact area . Each of the first and second contact areas and correspond to the card area of the tray . If the tray includes the first card area as the general card area and the second card area as the hybrid card area the first contact area corresponds to the first card area and the second contact area corresponds to the second card area . The second contact area includes a terminal corresponding to the second card e.g. the USIM card and the third card e.g. the micro SD card which are installed in the second card area that serves as the hybrid card area.

The card connector may further include the tray recognition part and the tray discharge part . The tray recognition part senses whether the tray is inserted and whether the card is installed. The tray recognition part may include a first recognition part and a second recognition part . The first recognition part senses whether the tray is inserted into the first contact area or whether the first card is installed. The second recognition part senses whether the tray is inserted into the second contact area or whether the first and second cards are installed. The second recognition part senses whether the tray is partially inserted into the card connector or whether a small tray that uses only the second contact area is inserted.

Each of the first and second recognition parts and may be configured as a switch. If both the first and second recognition parts and are in an ON state the electronic device determines that the tray is fully inserted into the card connector and that each card area accommodates a corresponding card. If the first recognition part is in an OFF state and the second recognition part is in the ON state the electronic device determines that the tray is partially inserted into the card connector that the small tray that uses only the second contact area is inserted or that only the second contact area accommodates a card. If both the first and second recognition parts and are in the OFF state the electronic device determines that the tray is discharged or that a card is not installed on the tray .

The first and second recognition parts and shown in are not limited to the above described structure and the position and shape of the tray recognition part may vary. For instance the tray recognition part may be formed together with the first and second contact areas and . Alternatively if a portion of the tray is opened the tray recognition part may make contact with the card installed in the opened area to determine whether a card is installed or not.

Referring to the tray is inserted into the card connector . The card installed in the first card area is electrically connected to the tray through terminals included in the first contact area . The card installed in the second card area is electrically connected to the tray through terminals included in the second contact area .

If the second card area is the hybrid card area the second contact area electrically connects to the second card e.g. USIM card or the third card e.g. micro SD card through sub contact areas and . For instance the sub contact area may include a terminal connected to the second card e.g. USIM card and the sub contact area may include a terminal connected to the third card e.g. Micro SD card . The sub contact areas and are independently disposed from each other in the second contact area .

The tray recognition part checks for insertion of the tray i.e. the insertion state of the tray . The first recognition part checks whether the tray is inserted into the first contact area . The second recognition part checks whether the tray is inserted into the second contact area .

The tray discharge part discharges the tray inserted in the card connector . For instance the tray discharge part discharges the tray when a force caused by manipulating a pin or the like is applied thereto. The tray discharge part operates in a push push button manner as described in detail with reference to .

Referring to the tray includes a first card area and a second card area . At least one of the first and second card areas and may be provided as the hybrid card area e.g. the second card area . A first card e.g. SIM card may be installed in the first card area and a second card e.g. USIM card or a third card e.g. Micro SD card may be installed in the second card area .

In a tray the user may install the first card e.g. USIM card in the first card area without installing any card in the second card area . The electronic device will sense the insertion of the tray through the tray recognition part . The first contact area of the card connector electrically connects to the first card e.g. USIM card and the electronic device transmits receives data based on subscriber information stored in the first card e.g. USIM card . The second contact area does not recognize an inserted card and a separate operation is therefore not performed.

In a tray the user may install the first card e.g. USIM card in the first card area and the second card e.g. USIM card in the second card area . The electronic device senses insertion of the tray through the tray recognition part . The first contact area of the card connector electrically connects to the first card e.g. USIM card and the second contact area of the card connector electrically connects to the second card e.g. USIM card . The electronic device transmits receives data based on subscriber information stored in the first card e.g. USIM card and or in the second card e.g. USIM card . The user may selectively use different subscriber information in the single electronic device without having to exchange cards.

In a tray the user may install the first card e.g. USIM card in the first card area and the third card e.g. Micro SD card in the second card area . The electronic device senses the insertion of the tray through the tray recognition part . The first contact area of the card connector electrically connects to the first card e.g. USIM card and the second contact area of the card connector electrically connects to the third card e.g. Micro SD card . The electronic device transmits receives data based on subscriber information stored in the first card e.g. USIM card . The electronic device may retrieve utilize and or store data in the third card e.g. Micro SD card .

A tray may include a first groove and a second groove . The first and second grooves and allow the tray to be fixed at various positions in the card connector . One or more grooves of the first and second grooves and are formed at a left or right side surface with respect to the insertion direction as shown in of the tray . The first and second grooves and couple to and separate from the support structure formed at the side surface of the card connector . The second groove is disposed adjacent to the first card area and the first groove is disposed adjacent to the second card area .

Positions of the first and second grooves and may change depending on the shape of the tray . Different from the position of the groove in the trays to the first groove of the tray is disposed at a portion of maximum width in the side surface of the second card area . For instance the first groove may be disposed at a position adjacent to a boundary between the first card area and the second card area when compared with the position of the groove in the trays to . When the first groove is disposed at a position of maximum width of the tray a crack may be prevented from occurring in the tray even though the width of the tray is reduced due to the first groove . However the first and second grooves and are not so limited and may be disposed at various positions according to a design environment or a manufacturing environment.

Referring to a tray includes a first card area and a second card area . The first card area may be a general card area in which a single card e.g. USIM card may be installed and the second card area may be a hybrid card area in which various cards e.g. USIM card or Micro SD card may be selectively installed. The first and second card areas and may be sequentially arranged in the insertion direction of the tray . The first card area may be disposed such that the first card area is inserted to a greater depth into the electronic device than the second card area .

Referring to a tray may include only one card area realized as a hybrid structure. The various cards e.g. USIM card or Micro SD card may be selectively installed in the card area . If the tray is inserted into the card connector the second contact area electrically connects to the USIM card or Micro SD card installed in the card area and the first contact area will not separately operate.

The tray is not be limited to the trays and as shown in . The electronic device may be operated to correspond to various cases related to the insertion of the tray by only using one card connector and thus the space utilization efficiency of the electronic device may be improved by the hybrid card area.

Referring to the tray may include a first supporter formed in the insertion direction of the tray and a second supporter formed in a direction substantially perpendicular to the insertion direction of the tray . The first and second supporters and may have a step difference in height with the second supporter being disposed above the first supporter at a height higher than a predetermined height and the card installed on the tray may be disposed on the second supporter . The second supporter may have the predetermined height to prevent the second supporter from colliding with or from being stuck to the terminal of the contact area of the card connector .

Similar to the first tray the tray may include a first supporter formed in the insertion direction of the tray but with only one second supporter formed in a direction substantially perpendicular to the insertion direction of the tray with the first and second supporters and having a step difference.

Referring to a tray includes a first card area and a second card area . The first card area may be a general card area in which a single card e.g. USIM card may be installed and the second card area may be a hybrid card area in which various cards e.g. USIM cards or Micro SD cards may be selectively installed.

The tray may be inserted into a card connector . The card connector includes a first contact area and a second contact area . The first contact area electrically connects to the card installed in the first card area and the second contact area electrically connects to the card installed in the second card area . The second contact area includes terminals required by each various card type to provide the hybrid structure.

Similar to the tray a tray is inserted into the card connector . The tray includes only one card area realized as the hybrid structure. The various cards e.g. USIM cards or Micro SD cards may be selectively installed in the card area . The USIM card or Micro SD card installed on the tray may be electrically connected to the electronic device through a second contact area of the card connector . In this case a card is not inserted in the first contact area .

The card connector further includes a tray recognition part to sense the tray or . The tray recognition part may include a plurality of recognition parts e.g. the first and second recognition parts and shown in . The electronic device determines a type of tray e.g. the tray or inserted thereinto in accordance with the recognized result by each recognition part.

The tray discharge part is disposed adjacent to an inlet of the card connector which is connected to the opening portion . When the user pushes the tray discharge part using a pin the tray discharge part moves about its axis to eject the tray or . The tray discharge part may alternatively be disposed at an end portion of the tray or the tray .

Referring to a tray includes a first card area and a second card area . The first and second card areas and are disposed side by side i.e. at left and right portions with respect to the insertion direction. The second card area may be realized as a hybrid structure and thus various cards may be installed in the second card area though the second card area is not so limited. That is the first card area may be realized as the hybrid card area or all of the first and second card areas and may be realized as the hybrid area.

A card connector includes a first contact area and a second contact area . The first and second contact areas and are correspondingly disposed at left and right portions with respect to the insertion direction. The second contact area includes terminals corresponding to the second card area that is the hybrid card area.

The card connector may further include a tray recognition part that senses whether the tray is inserted. The tray recognition part may be disposed at an edge of the first contact area or the second contact area .

The card connector further includes a tray discharge part to discharge the tray inserted therein. In the tray discharge part is disposed adjacent to the first contact area but may be positioned elsewhere such as adjacent to the second contact area .

Referring to a card connector includes a first contact area and a second contact area . The first contact area corresponds to a first card area single card area of a tray . The first contact area includes a terminal . The terminal may be electrically connected to a first card e.g. USIM card installed in the first card area of the tray . The terminal has a shape that corresponds to the first card. Detailed descriptions of the terminal are provided with reference to .

The second contact area corresponds to a second card area i.e. the hybrid card area and includes a terminal . The second contact area may include sub contact areas and corresponding to the second card area that is the hybrid card area. The sub contact areas and include terminals and respectively. The terminal electrically connects to the second card e.g. USIM card installed in the second card area . The terminal electrically connects to the third card e.g. Micro SD card installed in the second card area .

The terminal is easily connected to the second card or the third card. In addition the terminal allows the first card to be inserted into the first contact area after passing through the second contact area and allows for easy insert and discharge. Detailed descriptions of the terminal will be described with reference to .

Referring to the terminal is included in the first contact area and includes a fixing part a supporting part and a bending part which are flexible and elastic and resume a normal shape after stretching or compression. The fixing part is fixedly attached to the terminal in the first contact area . The supporting part extends from the fixing part in a predetermined direction and flexibly supports the bending part using an elasticity thereof. The supporting part moves downward when a card is inserted and moves upward when the card is discharged. The bending part bends downward at a predetermined angle. The bending part directly contacts the card to transmit receive an electrical signal to from the card . The bending part is bent at the predetermined angle or has a predetermined curvature to prevent the card from colliding with or from being stuck to the bending part .

The terminal included in the second contact area includes a fixing part a supporting part a bending part and an extending part . The terminal may have substantially the same structure and function as those of the terminal except for the extending part . The fixing part the supporting part and the bending part may have substantially the same structure and function as those of the terminal .

The extending part extends from the bending part and additionally extends to a lower portion of the terminal . The extending part allows the first card to be inserted into the first contact area after passing through the second contact area without colliding with or becoming stuck to the terminal .

The extending part may be realized in a straight line shape extending toward the lower portion of the terminal at the predetermined angle. Alternatively the extending part may be realized in a circular shape that includes a first extending part and a second extending part

Referring to the terminal or the terminal included in the contact area may be realized in various shapes. The fixing part the supporting part and the bending part included in the terminal or the terminal may have various widths and thicknesses in consideration of the necessity of changes in design and or function. The bending part may have various shapes e.g. a straight line shape a curved line shape a circular shape etc. such that the bending part easily makes contact with or is easily separated from the card . The bending part may be realized in a shape to allow the bending part not to be stuck to the card .

The terminals and shown in should not be limited to the above mentioned structure and function and may have a variety of shapes to correspond to the card installed in the tray . For instance the terminal may be realized as including the extending part as the terminal .

Referring to the card connector includes a first contact area and a second contact area . The first contact area corresponds to a first card area i.e. a single card area of a tray and the second contact area corresponds to a second card area i.e. a hybrid card area.

After the tray is inserted the user may discharge the tray through a tray discharge part which operates in the push push button manner.

As shown in the tray discharge part includes a button a latch bracket a fixing part a moving part an elastic part and a discharge part .

As shown in when the tray is inserted into the card connector the button outwardly protrudes from the electronic device within a predetermined range. Before the user presses the button the latch bracket is maintained in a state in which a first hook is hooked to the fixing part by the elasticity of the elastic part .

As shown in when the user presses the button once the latch bracket moves along its axis and is released from the fixing part . Accordingly as shown in the latch bracket is maintained in a state in which a second hook is hooked to a stepped portion of the moving part .

As shown in when the user presses the button while the latch bracket is hooked to the stepped portion the discharge part pivots along axis by the movement of the moving part and the tray is moved outward from the electronic device by a force exerted by the movement of the discharge part from a state in which the first groove is coupled to the support structure to a state in which the second groove is coupled to the support structure .

The latch bracket moves along its axis and the moving part moves with the latch bracket which returns to the state in which the first hook is hooked to the fixing part .

Referring to a card connector includes a support structure on its side surface. The support structure prevents the tray from moving in the card connector after the tray is inserted into the support structure .

When the tray is inserted into the card connector the support structure may not be coupled to one of the first and second grooves and and the support structure may be coupled to the first and second grooves and when the tray is discharged to the outside of the card connector . The support structure includes a surface forming a first angle which is a obtuse angle with the side surface in the insertion direction of the tray and a surface forming a second angle which is a right angle or greater with the side surface in the discharge direction of the tray .

The first groove may be coupled to the support structure when the tray is fully inserted into the card connector . The tray may be securely fixed in the card connector due to the coupling between the support structure and the first groove

The user may replace or remove the card installed in the second card area when the tray is partially discharged from the card connector i.e. the state in which the support structure is coupled to the second groove . The user may easily replace the card installed in the hybrid card area with another card even though the tray is not completely separated from the card connector . The electronic device recognizes the card installed in the tray when the tray is partially discharged from the card connector . The state in which the tray is fully inserted into the card connector i.e. with the support structure coupled to the first groove may change to the state in which the tray is partially discharged from the card connector through the tray discharge part e.g. when the support structure is coupled to the second groove . When the first card installed in the first card area moves to the second card area in the first contact area the electronic device electrically connects to the first card through the second contact area.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device accommodates a plurality of cards and includes the first contact area through which the electronic device is connected to the first card among the cards and the second contact area through which the electronic device is connected to the second card or the third card.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the second contact area includes the first sub contact area connected to the second card and the second sub contact area connected to the third card with the first and second sub contact areas independently disposed in the second contact area. The second contact area includes the terminals connected to the second and third cards.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure each terminal includes the fixing part the supporting part connected to the fixing part and extending from the fixing part in a predetermined direction with the support part having an elasticity the bending part connected to the supporting part to make contact with one of the second card and the third card and the extending part extending in the predetermined direction from the bending part.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the second contact area is spaced apart from a center portion of the electronic device with the second contact area positioned further away from the center portion than the first contact area. Each of the first and second cards may be the subscribed identification card and the third card may be the memory card.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device includes the tray that accommodates a plurality of cards therein and a card connector accommodates the tray with the card connector including the first card area that electrically connects the electronic device to the first card installed in the first card area and the second card area that selectively electrically connects the electronic device to the second card and the third card which is installed in the second card area.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the first and second contact areas are arranged in a same direction in which the tray is inserted or discharged. In addition the first and second contact areas may be arranged in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the insertion direction of the tray.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the card connector further includes a tray discharge part that operates to discharge the tray and a tray recognition part to recognize the tray. The tray discharge part may be operated in the push push button manner.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the tray includes the first and second grooves formed on the side surface thereof and the card connector includes the support structure coupled to the first and second grooves. The first groove is disposed adjacent to the second card area on the side surface of the tray and the second groove is disposed adjacent to the first card area on the side surface of the tray. The first groove may be disposed at the position having a relatively large area or width in the side surface of the second card area.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure if the first card area and second card area are inserted into the card connector the support structure is coupled to the first groove and if the second card area is partially discharged from the card connector the support structure is coupled to the second groove. The support structure may be disposed on the side surface of the second contact area and coupled to the first groove or the second groove.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the tray has the stepped structure to prevent the tray from colliding with the first or second contact area.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the tray accommodates the cards inserted into the electronic device and includes the first card area in which the first card is installed and the second card area in which one of the second and third cards is installed. The first and second card areas may be sequentially arranged in the direction into which the tray is inserted into the electronic device and the first card area may be inserted into the electronic device prior to the second card area.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the tray includes the first and second grooves formed on the side surface thereof and the first groove is disposed at the position having the relatively large area or width in the side surface of the second card area.

Referring to an electronic device may include for example all or a part of an electronic device as illustrated in . The electronic device may include one or more application processors APs a communication module a SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display e.g. the display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may drive an operating system OS or an application to control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and may process and compute a variety of data. The AP may be implemented with a System on Chip SoC for example. According to the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU and or an image signal processor. The AP may include at least a part e.g. a cellular module of components illustrated in . The AP may load and process an instruction or data which is received from at least one of other components e.g. a nonvolatile memory and may store a variety of data at a nonvolatile memory.

The communication module may be configured the same as or similar to a communication interface of . The communication module may include a cellular module a wireless fidelity Wi Fi module a Bluetooth BT module a global positioning system GPS module a near field communication NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice communication video communication a character service an Internet service or the like through a communication network. According to the present disclosure the cellular module may perform discrimination and authentication of an electronic device within a communication network using the SIM card for example. According to the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least a portion of functions that the AP provides. The cellular module may include a communication processor CP .

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data exchanged through a corresponding module for example. At least a portion e.g. two or more components of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included within one Integrated Circuit IC or an IC package.

The RF module may transmit and receive a communication signal e.g. an RF signal . The RF module may include a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA an antenna or the like. At least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit and receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may include for example a subscriber identification module and may include unique identify information e.g. integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. integrated mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. a memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . For example the internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM or a synchronous DRAM SDRAM a nonvolatile memory e.g. a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory a hard drive or a solid state drive SSD .

The external memory may include a flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital Micro SD mini secure digital Mini SD extreme digital xD multimedia card MMC a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally and or physically connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

The sensor module may measure for example a physical quantity or may detect an operation state of the electronic device . The sensor module may convert the measured or detected information to an electric signal. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. red green blue RGB sensor a heart rate sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K or an UV sensor M. Additionally the sensor module may further include for example an E nose sensor an electromyography sensor EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor a photoplethysmographic PPG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor and or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein. The electronic device may further include a processor which is a part of the AP or independent of the AP and is configured to control the sensor module . The processor may control the sensor module while the AP remains at a sleep state.

The input device may include for example a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may use at least one of capacitive resistive infrared and ultrasonic detecting methods. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer to provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be for example a part of a touch panel or may include an additional sheet for recognition. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key a keypad and the like. The ultrasonic input device may detect or sense an ultrasonic signal which is generated from an input device through a microphone and may check data corresponding to the detected ultrasonic signal.

The display e.g. a display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be configured the same as or similar to a display of . The panel and the touch panel may be integrated into a single module. The hologram device may display a stereoscopic image in a space using a light interference phenomenon. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be arranged within or external to the electronic device . The display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example an HDMI high definition multimedia interface a USB universal serial bus an optical interface or a D sub D subminiature . The interface may be included for example in a communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or generally the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface a SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert a sound and an electric signal in dual directions. At least a portion of the audio module may be included for example in an input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may process for example sound information that is input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module for shooting a still image or a video may include for example at least one image sensor e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an image signal processor ISP or a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage for example power of the electronic device . According to the present invention a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery gauge may be included in the power management module . The PMIC may have a wired charging method and or a wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method and may further include an additional circuit for example a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier and the like. The battery gauge may measure for example a remaining capacity of the battery and a voltage current or temperature thereof while the battery is charged. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or a portion thereof e.g. an AP such as a booting state a message state a charging state and the like. The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration and may generate the following effects vibration haptic and the like. A processing device e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV may be included in the electronic device . The processing device for supporting a mobile TV may process media data according to the standards of DMB digital video broadcasting DVB MediaFlo or the like.

Each of the above mentioned elements of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and the references of the elements may change according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned elements and some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be added. Furthermore some of the elements of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be combined with each other to form a single entity so that the functions of the elements may be performed in the same manner as before the combination.

The term module used herein may represent for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The term module may be interchangeably used with the terms unit logic logical block component and circuit . The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component or may be a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module may include at least one of an application specific IC ASIC chip a field programmable gate array FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing known operations or operations that will be developed.

At least a portion of an apparatus e.g. modules or functions thereof or a method e.g. operations according to the present disclosure may be for example implemented by instructions stored in a computer readable storage media in the form of a program module. The instruction when executed by one or more processors e.g. a processor may cause the one or more processors to perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media for example may be the memory .

A computer readable recording medium may include a hard disk a magnetic media a floppy disk a magnetic media e.g. a magnetic tape an optical media e.g. a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and a digital versatile disc DVD a magneto optical media e.g. a floptical disk and hardware devices e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM or a flash memory . Also a program instruction may include not only a mechanical code e.g. as generated by a compiler but also a high level language code executable on a computer using an interpreter. In addition a hardware unit may operate via one or more software modules to operate the present disclosure.

A module or a program module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the above elements or a portion of the above elements may be omitted or additional other elements may be further included. Operations performed by a module a program module or other elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic method. Also a portion of operations may be executed in different sequences omitted or other operations may be added.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device accommodates a plurality of cards. The electronic device includes a first contact area connected to a first card among the plurality of cards and a second contact area configured to selectively connect to a second card or a third card among the plurality of cards.

According to the above various cards may be installed in the electronic device using one card connector and the electronic device may recognize the cards through the one card connector and thus a space utilization efficiency of the electronic device is improved.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

