---

title: MIS transistors configured to be placed in programmed state and erased state
abstract: A nonvolatile memory device includes a pair of MIS transistors one of which is placed in a programmed state by a first program operation utilizing a hot carrier effect to store one-bit data in the pair of MIS transistors, and a control unit configured to recall the one-bit data from the pair of MIS transistors in a recall operation, to cause an unprogrammed one of the MIS transistors to be placed in a programmed state by a second program operation utilizing a hot carrier effect in response to the one-bit data recalled from the pair of MIS transistors, and to erase the programmed states of both of the MIS transistors in an erase operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09484072&OS=09484072&RS=09484072
owner: NSCore, Inc.
number: 09484072
owner_city: Fukuoka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20151006
---
The disclosures herein generally relate to memory devices and particularly relate to a nonvolatile memory device.

Nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices include flash EEPROMs employing a floating gate structure FeRAMs employing a ferroelectric film MRAMs employing a ferromagnetic film etc. EEPROMs typically require a transistor having a special structure comprised of a floating gate. FeRAMs and MRAMs for example achieve nonvolatile storage by use of a ferroelectric material and a ferromagnetic material respectively thereby requiring a film made of these respective materials. The need for such a transistor having a special structure and the need for such a film made of special material are one of the factors that result in an increase in the manufacturing costs.

A nonvolatile data storage function may alternatively be provided by utilizing an MIS metal insulating film semiconductor transistor as a memory cell transistor. That is an MIS transistor having the same structure as ordinary MIS transistors that are typically used for conventional transistor functions e.g. switching function may be employed as a memory cell transistor. Such a memory cell transistor is advantageous because neither a special structure nor a special material is required.

PermSRAM which utilizes an MIS transistor as a memory cell transistor is commercially available. PermSRAM stores data in an MIS transistor by utilizing a hot carrier effect. The hot carrier effect refers to the injection of electrons into the insulating film i.e. oxide film and or sidewalls of the transistor. The presence of electrons trapped in the insulating film and or sidewalls causes a rise in the threshold voltage and a drop in the drain current. The amount of drain current of a given MIS transistor may be measured to determine whether this transistor has electrons trapped in the oxide film and or sidewalls. The presence of trapped electrons may represent one bit data 0 for example and the absence of trapped electrons may represent one bit data 1 for example.

The hot carrier effect is generally regarded as being substantially irreversible. Hot holes may be injected to the insulating film and or sidewalls to remove some of the trapped electrons thereby mitigating the effect of trapped electrons on the threshold voltage and the drain current. However all the trapped electrons cannot be removed and the remaining trapped electrons still causes a rise in the threshold voltage and a drop in the drain current.

A nonvolatile memory device includes a pair of MIS transistors one of which is placed in a programmed state by a first program operation utilizing a hot carrier effect to store one bit data in the pair of MIS transistors and a control unit configured to recall the one bit data from the pair of MIS transistors in a recall operation to cause an unprogrammed one of the MIS transistors to be placed in a programmed state by a second program operation utilizing a hot carrier effect in response to the one bit data recalled from the pair of MIS transistors and to erase the programmed states of both of the MIS transistors in an erase operation.

A method of controlling a nonvolatile memory device includes placing one of a pair of MIS transistors in a programmed state through a first program operation utilizing a hot carrier effect to store one bit data in the pair of MIS transistors recalling the one bit data from the pair of MIS transistors in a recall operation placing an unprogrammed one of the MIS transistors in a programmed state through a second program operation utilizing a hot carrier effect in response to the one bit data recalled from the pair of MIS transistors and erasing the programmed states of both of the MIS transistors in an erase operation.

Other objects and further features of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In the following embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In these drawings the same or similar elements are referred to by the same or similar numerals and a description thereof may be omitted as appropriate.

The disclosures herein are directed to PermSRAM. Namely the memory cell transistors are MIS metal insulating film semiconductor transistors that have the same structure as ordinary MIS transistors used for conventional transistor functions e.g. switching function . These memory cell transistors use neither a special structure such as a floating gate nor a special material such as a ferroelectric material or a ferromagnetic material. These MIS transistors are configured to selectively experience a hot carrier effect on purpose for storage of data. The hot carrier effect leaves a lingering change in the transistor characteristics to the MIS transistors. A change in the transistor characteristics caused by the hot carrier effect achieves nonvolatile data retention.

In the following description NMOS transistors are used as an example of the nonvolatile memory cell MIS transistors but such examples are not intended to be limiting. PMOS transistors may alternatively be used as nonvolatile memory cell transistors.

Further an operation to cause electrons to be trapped in the sidewalls and or insulating film of a memory cell MIS transistor is referred to as a program operation. An operation to read data stored in a memory cell MIS transistor is referred to as a recall operation. An operation to erase data stored in a memory cell MIS transistor is referred to as an erase operation.

Each of the sidewalls may have a monolithic structure made of such a material as silicon dioxide for example. Alternatively as illustrated in each of the sidewalls may have a multilayer structure comprised of at least three films of at least two different semiconductor materials. The multiplayer structure may include a silicon dioxide film A a silicon nitride film B and a silicon dioxide film C. Such a three layer structure shown in creates potential barriers having a dip in the middle with respect to electrons. Accordingly the sidewalls shown in can easily trap a large amount of electrons in a short time and can keep the electrons trapped therein for a long time.

For the purpose of causing the trapping of electrons in the source node C i.e. the N type diffusion region may be set to 0 V and the drain node D i.e. the N type diffusion region may be set to 5 V with the gate electrode being set to 5 V. The drain node D may be set to as high voltage as possible in order to achieve an efficient program operation as long as the voltage does not exceed the tolerance range of the transistor. It suffices for the gate electrode to be set to a voltage higher than the threshold voltage of the transistor but the efficiency of data programming increases as the voltage approaches the drain voltage.

With these voltage settings hot electrons having high kinetic energy flowing through the transistor channel from the source S to the drain D as illustrated by an arrow causes impact ionization to occur at the channel drain junction to create electron hole pairs. In an electron and a hole are illustratively shown by an open circle and a solid circle respectively. Because this impact ionization occurs directly under the sidewall on the drain side hot electrons generated by the impact ionization are easily injected into the sidewall . This injection achieves a large sustainable change in the transistor characteristics. In this manner the NMOS transistor illustrated in is programmed i.e. placed in a programmed state by a hot carrier effect.

It should be noted that when a program operation is performed as illustrated in the N type diffusion region and the N type diffusion region are employed as a source node S and a drain node D respectively. This program operation results in electrons being trapped in the sidewall situated on the same side as the drain. At the time of performing a recall operation the source drain roles of the N type diffusion regions and are swapped relative to those of the program operation and the N type diffusion region and the N type diffusion region are employed as a drain node D an a source node S respectively.

The hot carrier effect is asymmetric with respect to the source and drain relation of a transistor. When the source node and drain node used to apply a bias for generating a hot carrier effect are used as a source node and a drain node respectively at the time of detecting a drain current the detected drain current exhibits a relatively small drop caused by the hot carrier effect. When the source node and drain node used to apply a bias for generating a hot carrier effect are swapped and used as a drain node and a source node respectively at the time of detecting a drain current the detected drain current exhibits a significant drop caused by the hot carrier effect. The difference in the detected drain current between these two scenarios is approximately an order of magnitude.

The amount of drain current of the MIS transistor may be measured with the above noted voltage settings to determine whether this transistor has electrons trapped in the insulating film and in the sidewall on the source side. The amount of drain current is significantly lower with the presence of trapped electrons than the amount of drain current that would be observed without the presence of trapped electrons.

The drain node D may be set to as high a voltage as possible within the tolerance range of the transistor in order to achieve an efficient erase operation. It suffices for the gate electrode to be set to as low voltage as possible within the tolerance range of the transistor in order to achieve an efficient erase operation.

With these voltage settings hot electrons having high kinetic energy flowing through the transistor channel from the source S to the drain D causes impact ionization to occur at the channel drain junction to create electron hole pairs. In a hole and an electron are illustrated as an electron hole pair. Because this impact ionization occurs directly under the sidewall on the drain side hot holes generated by the impact ionization are easily injected into the sidewall . This injection serves to remove some of the trapped electrons to mitigate the change of transistor characteristics caused by the previously performed program operation. Namely the programmed state of the NMOS transistor may be erased by the injection of hot holes. However all the trapped electrons cannot be removed and the remaining trapped electrons still causes a rise in the threshold voltage and a drop in the drain current.

As can be seen from comparison between the characteristic curve illustrated in and the characteristic curve illustrated in the amount of drain current of an MIS transistor decreases after the MIS transistor is subjected to one program erase cycle comprised of one program operation and one erase operation. Namely the erase operation cannot bring the characteristics of the MIS transistor back to the original characteristics that were in existence before the program operation. Some of the effect of the program operation lingers even after the erase operation is performed.

As can be seen from the characteristics curves through the amount of drain current of an MIS transistor decreases as the number of program erase cycles increases. A typical data detection mechanism in a memory device utilizes a sense amplifier that compares the drain current of a memory cell transistor with a reference current for the purpose of detecting data stored in the memory cell transistor. Since the amount of drain current of an MIS transistor changes with the number of program and erase operations a constant reference current is not usable when MIS transistors are utilized as nonvolatile memory cell transistors that are programmable and erasable multiple times.

The memory cell array includes a plurality of memory cells arranged in a matrix form. The memory cells arranged in the same column are connected to the same bit lines and the memory cells arranged in the same row are connected to the same word line.

The mode selector state machine receives mode input signals from outside the semiconductor memory device and decodes the mode input signals to determine an operation mode e.g. a program operation mode a recall operation mode or an erase operation mode . Control signals responsive to the determined operation mode are supplied to the write amplifier the sense amplifier column selector the row signal driver etc. for control of the individual parts of the semiconductor memory device .

The column decoder receives a column address input from outside the semiconductor memory device and decodes the column address input to determine a selected column. The decode signals indicative of the selected column are supplied to the write amplifier and the sense amplifier column selector .

The row decoder receives a row address input from outside the semiconductor memory device and decodes the row address input to determine a selected row. The decode signals indicative of the selected row are supplied to the row signal driver .

In response to the control signals from the mode selector state machine and the decode signals from the row decoder the row signal driver activates a selected word line among the word lines extending from the row signal driver . As a result of the activation of the selected word line a program recall or erase operation is performed with respect to one or more memory cells coupled to the activated word line.

In response to the control signals from the mode selector state machine and the decode signals from the column decoder the column selector of the sense amplifier column selector couples bit lines corresponding to one or more selected columns to a data bus which is connected to the input buffer through the write amplifier and also connected to the output buffer . Through this coupling data is transferred between the memory cell array and the input buffer or between the memory cell array and the output buffer . In a recall operation the sense amplifiers of the sense amplifier column selector sense i.e. detect data of the memory cells connected to the activated word line in the memory cell array . The sensed data may be supplied to the output buffer for provision to outside the semiconductor memory device as output data. Input data supplied to the input buffer is provided to the write amplifier . The write amplifier amplifies the input data to be written to the memory cell array .

The signal WL supplied from the mode selector state machine and one of the row address signals RA RA . . . and RAn are combined by a corresponding one of the NAND gates through . In response to the outputs of the NAND gates through word line drivers through drive word lines WL through WLn respectively extending in the memory cell array . With this arrangement only one of the word lines WL through WLn is activated in the memory cell array so as to activate a selected row address.

The first column corresponding to the bit line pair BL and BL through the m th column corresponding to the bit line pair BLm and BLm include potential lines PL through PLm respectively. At the first column corresponding to the bit line pair BL and BL for example the NMOS transistor has one end of the channel thereof connected to the bit line BL and has the other end of the channel thereof connected to the potential line PL. Further the NMOS transistor has one end of the channel thereof connected to the bit line BL and has the other end of the channel thereof connected to the potential line PL.

Each of the potential lines PL through PLm is coupled to a ground voltage Gnd e.g. 0 V through an NMOS transistor and is also coupled to an extra high voltage VPP e.g. 5 V through a PMOS transistor . The NMOS transistor has the gate node thereof connected to the signal RECALL. The PMOS transistor has the gate node thereof connected to the signal STORE. The NMOS transistor and the PMOS transistor may be high voltage transistors that are capable of operating with high voltage e.g. 5 V . Other transistors may be designed to operate with normal power supply voltage e.g. 3.3 V .

PMOS transistors through are provided for the purpose of equalizing the bit line pairs. The PMOS transistors through have the ground nodes thereof connected to the signal EQ which is supplied from the row signal driver . When the signal EQ is set to LOW the two bit lines of each bit line pair are set to a high voltage Vdd e.g. 3.3 V and are electrically coupled to each other through the PMOS transistor to ensure that the two bit lines are set to the equal potential.

At each column PMOS transistors and and NMOS transistors and together constitute a sense amplifier. The sense amplifier at a given column serves to sense the data read from the memory cell of an activated word line by amplifying a difference in voltages between the two bit lines of the given column. The sense amplifiers of the first through m th columns belong to the sense amplifier column selector . The remaining portion of the sense amplifier column selector other than these sense amplifiers is illustrated as a column selector A in . Two nodes C and C of each sense amplifier that are connected to the two respective bit lines are connected to the column selector A.

An NMOS transistor has a source node thereof connected to the ground voltage Gnd and a drain node thereof connected to the node C. An NMOS transistor has a source node thereof connected to the ground voltage Gnd and a drain node thereof connected to the node C. A PMOS transistor has a source node thereof connected to the power supply voltage Vdd and a drain node thereof connected to the source nodes of the PMOS transistors and . The NMOS transistors and and the PMOS transistor have gate nodes thereof receiving a control signal ERASE supplied from the mode selector state machine . The control signal ERASE may be generated in response to one or more mode input signals that are supplied to the mode selector state machine to specify an erase operation. The high voltage state of the control signal ERASE causes both of the nodes C and C to be coupled to the ground voltage Gnd.

 BUFFER WRITE refers to the operation that writes data to a sense amplifier. Namely data input into the input buffer of the semiconductor memory device is amplified by the write amplifier and is then applied to one or more sense amplifiers of one or more selected columns. With the signal RESTORE being set to HIGH i.e. 1 the NMOS transistor of a sense amplifier of interest is placed in the conductive state so that the sense amplifier stores the data supplied thereto.

 BUFFER READ refers to the operation that reads data from the sense amplifier. With the signal RESTORE being set to HIGH i.e. 1 the NMOS transistor of a sense amplifier of interest is placed in the conductive state so that the sense amplifier maintains the data stored therein which is then supplied to the output buffer through the sense amplifier column selector .

 STANDBY refers to the state in which data is maintained in the sense amplifier. With the signal RESTORE being set to HIGH i.e. 1 the NMOS transistor of a sense amplifier of interest is placed in the conductive state so that the sense amplifier maintains the data stored therein.

 PROGRAM REVERSE PROGRAM refers to the program operation that programs the NMOS transistors of a memory cell according to the data stored i.e. written in the sense amplifier. RECALL refers to the recall operation that reads data from a memory cell to the sense amplifier. ERASE refers to the erase operation that erases the NMOS transistors of a memory cell. These three operations will be described later in detail.

The mode selector state machine sets the control signals to signal levels signal states as illustrated in the table of in response to the mode input signals. Through such settings of the control signals the mode selector state machine controls the write amplifier and the row signal driver to perform a requested operation with respect to the memory cell array .

When the mode input from outside the semiconductor memory device indicates the program operation the control signals EQ RESTORE WL STORE and RECALL are set to 1 1 1 i.e. extra high voltage VPP 0 and 0 respectively as shown in . illustrates the waveforms of the signals STORE RECALL WL i.e. selected word line EQ C and C i.e. the two nodes of the sense amplifier . A selected word line WLi in shown as WL in is set to the extra high voltage VPP. In response to STORE being 0 i.e. LOW the PMOS transistor in is placed in the conductive state so that the extra high voltage VPP is applied to the drain nodes of the NMOS transistors and connected to the activated word line WLi. In the example illustrated in the nodes C and C of the sense amplifier are HIGH and LOW respectively. Accordingly one of the NMOS transistors and whose source node is connected to the LOW node C is programmed by the program operation.

At the first phase P the signal RESTORE is set to 0 and the signal EQ is set to 0. As a result the NMOS transistor in becomes nonconductive to deactivate the sense amplifier and the PMOS transistors through in become conductive to equalize and set the two nodes of the sense amplifier to Vdd i.e. normal high voltage . The equalization of the nodes C and C is illustrated in as occurring at the first phase P.

At the second phase P the signal EQ is set to 1 and the word line WL is set to 1. As a result the PMOS transistors through in are turned off to separate the nodes C and C from each other and the NMOS transistors and of the activated word line WLi in are turned on. Assuming that the program operation as illustrated in has been performed prior to the recall operation the NMOS transistor situated on the C node side has a higher threshold voltage and thus has a higher ON resistance. Accordingly the force that pulls down the node C toward the ground potential through the NMOS transistor is weaker than the force that pulls down the node C resulting in the nodes C and C changing to LOW and HIGH respectively as shown at the second phase P in .

At the third phase the signal RESTORE is set to 1 and the word line WL is set to 0. As a result the NMOS transistor in becomes conductive to activate the sense amplifier and the NMOS transistors and of the selected row are turned off. The activated sense amplifier amplifies a potential difference appearing between the node C and the node C thereby sensing detecting the data stored in the pair of the NMOS transistors and . The amplification of the potential difference between the nodes C and C is illustrated as occurring at the third phase P in .

It may be noted that the drain currents flow through the NMOS transistors and during the recall operation in a direction opposite to the direction in which drain currents flow through the NMOS transistors and during the program operation. Namely the source drain positions of the NMOS transistors and in the recall operation are swapped relative to those in the program operation. With this arrangement the asymmetric nature of the hot carrier effect is utilized to provide a sufficiently large difference in threshold voltages between the NMOS transistors and 

In the word line WL is selectively activated to HIGH and the word line WL is set to LOW. This word line setting selects the memory cell connected to the word line WL for the recall operation. In the example illustrated in the NMOS transistor indicated by an open oval mark has been programmed to have an increased threshold voltage as in the example illustrated in . The potential line PL is set to a low voltage i.e. 0 V . With this arrangement a drain current Ion flowing through the NMOS transistor is smaller than a drain current Ion flowing through the NMOS transistor . The node of the sense amplifier connected to the bit line BL is changed to LOW while the other node of the sense amplifier connected to the bit line BL remains at HIGH.

The data retrieved from the selected memory cell to the sense amplifier may be supplied to outside the semiconductor memory device through the output buffer see . It may be noted that the data state of the sense amplifier as to which one of the two nodes thereof is HIGH is reversed at the time of a recall operation relative to the data state of the sense amplifier used at the time of a program operation. This can be seen by comparing the two nodes of the sense amplifier between and . Such a reversal may be taken into consideration when the data is output to outside the semiconductor memory device .

The REVERSE PROGRAM operation is the same as the normal program operation in terms of the voltage settings and behaviors of relevant signals. As was previously described however the REVERSE PROGRAM operation is performed immediately after a recall operation that retrieves data from a selected memory cell. The example illustrated in is directed to the case in which the recall operation illustrated in was performed immediately prior to the program operation illustrated in . Namely the sense amplifier has data stored therein such that the two nodes thereof connected to the bit lines BL and BL are HIGH and LOW respectively. As a program operation is performed in this state the NMOS transistor that is the unprogrammed one of the two NMOS transistors and is programmed by this program operation. Both of the two NMOS transistor and are thus in the programmed state after this program operation as indicated by two open oval marks superimposed on these two NMOS transistors in .

The above noted REVERSE PROGRAM operation serves to provide a balance between the NMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor in the selected i th row. If only one of the NMOS transistors and is programmed and erased the voltage current characteristics end up differing between these two NMOS transistors and . Since the recall operation is performed by comparing the drain currents of these two NMOS transistors and with each other such unbalanced voltage current characteristics may result in an erroneous recall operation which produces sensed i.e. detected data that is different from the true stored value.

In the semiconductor memory device of the present embodiment the reverse program operation is always performed prior to an erase operation followed by the erase operation that erases both of the two NMOS transistors of a given memory cell. This arrangement ensures that the two NMOS transistors have both undergone the equal number of program erase cycles and thus have substantially equal voltage current characteristics at any given moment. Reliable recall operations are thus ensured.

A program operation may be performed in response to a program command that is issued to the semiconductor memory device as mode input signals applied to the mode selector state machine . A recall operation may be performed in response to a recall command that is issued to the semiconductor memory device as mode input signals applied to the mode selector state machine . A reverse program operation may be performed in response to a reverse program command that is issued to the semiconductor memory device as mode input signals applied to the mode selector state machine . An erase operation may be performed in response to a recall command that is issued to the semiconductor memory device as mode input signals applied to the mode selector state machine . Each of the operations noted above may be performed with respect to a row address and one or more column addresses that are specified by row and column address signals applied to the semiconductor memory device . Alternatively some or the operations may be performed with respect to a specified row address and all the column addresses with respect to all the row addresses and a specified column address or with respect to all the row addresses and all the column addresses.

The user may exercise caution to perform a reverse program operation before an erase operation so as to ensure that the two NMOS transistors of a memory cell of interest are both programmed before any erase operation with respect to this memory cell. Alternatively the semiconductor memory device may be provided some mechanism to perform a reverse program operation before an erase operation so as to ensure that the two NMOS transistors of a memory cell of interest are both programmed before any erase operation with respect to this memory cell. For example an erase command issued to the semiconductor memory device may cause the mode selector state machine to perform a reverse program operation and a subsequent erase operation as one set of inseparable operations with respect to a memory cell of interest that may be specified by a row address and a column address.

In step S a row address i.e. X is set to 0 and a setting is made i.e. Y ALL HIGH to indicate that all the column addresses are simultaneously subjected to each one of the program operations. In step S an operation loop continues as long as the row address is smaller than or equal to the maximum row address i.e. X MAX . In step S a program operation is performed with respect to the current row address and with respect to all the column addresses. In step S the row address is incremented by one and the procedure returns to step S according to the operation loop. When the current row address exceeds the maximum row address the operation loop comes to an end.

In step S a row address i.e. X is set to 0 and a setting is made i.e. Y ALL HIGH to indicate that all the column addresses are simultaneously subjected to each one of the program operations. In step S an operation loop continues as long as the row address is smaller than or equal to the maximum row address i.e. X MAX . In step S a recall operation is performed with respect to the current row address and with respect to all the column addresses. In step S a program operation is performed with respect to the current row address and with respect to all the column addresses. In step S the row address is incremented by one and the procedure returns to step S according to the operation loop. When the current row address exceeds the maximum row address the operation loop comes to an end.

In step S a row address i.e. X is set to 0 and a setting is made i.e. Y ALL HIGH to indicate that all the column addresses are simultaneously subjected to each one of the erase operations. In step S an operation loop continues as long as the row address is smaller than or equal to the maximum row address i.e. X MAX . In step S an erase operation is performed with respect to the current row address and with respect to all the column addresses. In step S the row address is incremented by one and the procedure returns to step S according to the operation loop. When the current row address exceeds the maximum row address the operation loop comes to an end.

In step S a column address i.e. Y is set to 0 and a setting is made i.e. X ALL HIGH to indicate that all the row addresses are simultaneously subjected to each one of the erase operations. In step S an operation loop continues as long as the column address is smaller than or equal to the maximum column address i.e. Y MAX . In step S an erase operation is performed with respect to the current column address and with respect to all the row addresses. In step S the column address is incremented by one and the procedure returns to step S according to the operation loop. When the current column address exceeds the maximum column address the operation loop comes to an end.

In step S settings are made i.e. X ALL HIGH Y ALL HIGH to indicate that all the row addresses and all the column addresses are simultaneously subjected to the erase operation. In step S an erase operation is performed with respect to all the row addresses and all the column addresses at once. The procedure then comes to an end.

The row signal driver selectively activates one of the word lines WL through WL. The row signal driver sets the selected word line to the high voltage e.g. 3.3 V in the case of a recall operation to the extra high voltage e.g. 5 V in the case of a program operation and to the negative voltage e.g. 5 V in the case of an erase operation. The VPP driver column selector controls the voltage levels of the bit lines BL through BL similarly to the manner in which the row signal driver controls the voltage levels of bit lines by use of the NMOS transistors and the PMOS transistors in the configuration illustrated in .

The bit lines BL through BL are connected to the sense amplifier column selector . The sense amplifier column selector is configured to connect two of the bit lines BL through BL to the two nodes of a sense amplifier respectively. These two bit lines are a given bit line e.g. N th line and a second next bit line e.g. N 2 th line . Namely these two bit lines are the first and third bit lines in a given set of three consecutive bit lines.

In the sense amplifier column selector couples the bit lines BL and BL to the two nodes of a sense amplifier thereof and do not couple the remaining bit lines to any sense amplifiers. Further the VPP driver column selector couples the bit line BL to the extra high voltage e.g. 5 V and do not couple the remaining bit lines to any potential nodes. The bit lines BL and BL are thus kept in a floating state. In the example illustrated in the sense amplifier to which the bit lines BL and BL are coupled have data stored therein such that the bit line BL is set to LOW and the bit line BL is set to HIGH.

With this arrangement the row signal driver selectively sets the word line WL to HIGH or extra high voltage . As a result the NMOS transistor M is programmed so as to have electrons trapped on a sidewall thereof on the drain side. The programmed drain side of this NMOS transistor M is marked by a solid line open oval superimposed thereon. The NMOS transistor M is not programmed so that no electron is trapped a sidewall thereof on the drain side. The unprogrammed drain side of this NMOS transistor M is marked by a dotted line open oval superimposed thereon.

With this arrangement the row signal driver selectively sets the word line WL to HIGH or extra high voltage . As a result the NMOS transistor M is programmed so as to have electrons trapped on a sidewall thereof on the drain side. The programmed drain side of this NMOS transistor M is marked by a solid line open oval superimposed thereon. The NMOS transistor M is not programmed so that no electron is trapped a sidewall thereof on the drain side. The unprogrammed drain side of this NMOS transistor M is marked by a dotted line open oval superimposed thereon.

The drain side that has previously been programmed is marked by a solid line open oval superimposed thereon. The drain side that is not programmed is marked by a dotted line open oval superimposed thereon. With this arrangement the row signal driver selectively sets the word line WL to HIGH. A larger drain current flows through the NMOS transistor M than the drain current flowing through the NMOS transistor M. As a result the sense amplifier node D is set to HIGH and the sense amplifier node D is set to LOW. It may be noted that in this recall operation the two adjacent NMOS transistors e.g. M and M are used as a transistor pair for which the threshold voltages are compared with each other.

Subsequently the VPP driver column selector changes the coupling of the bit line BL from the ground voltage e.g. 0 V to the extra high voltage e.g. 5 V to perform a reverse program operation. In the example illustrated in the NMOS transistor M that is the unprogrammed one of the two NMOS transistors M and M is programmed by this reverse program operation so as to have electrons trapped on a sidewall thereof on the drain side. Namely the drain side of the NMOS transistor M which is marked by the dotted line open oval superimposed thereon is programmed to have electrons trapped on the sidewall on the drain side.

The drain sides that have previously been programmed are marked by solid line open ovals superimposed thereon. The drain sides that are not programmed are marked by dotted line open ovals superimposed thereon. With this arrangement the row signal driver selectively sets the word line WL to HIGH. A larger drain current flows through the NMOS transistor M than the drain current flowing through the NMOS transistor M. As a result the sense amplifier node D is set to HIGH and the sense amplifier node D is set to LOW. It may be noted that in this recall operation the fact of whether or not the drain side of the NMOS transistor M i.e. the side toward the sense amplifier is in the programmed state does not affect the amount of drain current flowing through the NMOS transistor M in a practical manner. This is because of the asymmetric nature of the hot carrier effect as was previously described.

Subsequently the VPP driver column selector changes the coupling of the bit line BL from the ground voltage e.g. 0 V to the extra high voltage e.g. 5 V to perform a reverse program operation. In the example illustrated in the NMOS transistor M that is the unprogrammed one of the two NMOS transistors M and M is programmed by this reverse program operation so as to have electrons trapped on a sidewall thereof on the drain side. Namely the drain side of the NMOS transistor M at the time of a program operation which is marked by a dotted line open oval superimposed thereon is programmed to have electrons trapped on the sidewall on the drain side.

Further the present invention is not limited to these embodiments but various variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

