---

title: System and method for remotely printing digital images for pickup at a retail store
abstract: The method and system allow a user to launch a client application on an web-enabled device and subsequently to navigate to an image source screen within the client application. After receiving an image source selection from the user, the client application retrieves images from the selected image source. The client application displays the retrieved images available for printing to a user, and in response to receiving a selection of an image, the client application transmits the image to a proprietary server. Moreover, upon receiving print order information, the client application additionally executes a location awareness application that determines a current location of the web-enabled device and subsequently, determines a proximal retail store to the current location of the web-enabled device. Thereafter, the remote printing system creates and transmits a print order that includes the selected image to the retail store for pickup.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565322&OS=09565322&RS=09565322
owner: WALGREEN CO.
number: 09565322
owner_city: Deerfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151113
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 596 259 filed Aug. 28 2012. The disclosure of this application is fully incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to a system and a method for remotely printing digital images and more particularly to a remote printing method and system allowing a user to select images and remotely print the selected images at a retail store for pickup.

Digital photography has recently overcome traditional film photography with the low cost of digital cameras the high quality of digital photographs and the flexibility of transferring the digital images to others. Moreover digital images allow for one to view the captured images on a digital display interface screen such as a display interface screen of a computer or tablet. Users may store their digital images on a stored medium such as a disc or a solid state drive and share the digital medium with others. Additionally a user may upload their digital images to a website for storage or for sharing with others via a social networking site or online photo album website. Despite the many options available for viewing digital images on a display interface screen many users still wish to print a hard copy of a captured image for viewing and sharing.

For example users may acquire a personal photo printer to print digital images out at home. This conventional technique can be very expensive given the costs of the printing equipment the photograph quality printing paper and the ink. Other techniques of printing digital images include transferring and storing a captured digital image on a storage medium and physically traveling to a retail store to print out the digital image from the storage medium. This technique is time consuming and cumbersome. More recently retail stores have offered printing services via their website on the Internet. Users may upload a digital image to the website of the retail store and have the digital images delivered via the mail. Again this technique is time consuming as it requires the photographer to wait for the prints to be delivered. More recently sophisticated image capturing and sharing software has become available for smartphones that allow a user to capture an image and immediately share the image with a third party social networking site Users may view the captured images via their smartphone or via the website or mobile application of the social networking site.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the front end components could also comprise a plurality of facility servers disposed at the plurality of retail stores instead of or in addition to a plurality of workstations . Each of the retail stores may include one or more facility servers that may facilitate communications between the workstations of the retail stores via a digital network and may store information for a plurality of customers employees accounts etc. associated with each facility. Of course a local digital network may also operatively connect each of the workstations to the facility server . Unless otherwise indicated any discussion of the workstations also refers to the facility servers and vice versa. Moreover environments other than the retail stores may employ the workstations and the servers . As used herein the term retail store refers to any of these environments e.g. kiosks Internet interface terminals etc. 

The front end components communicate with the back end components via the digital network . One or more of the front end components may be excluded from communication with the back end components by configuration or by limiting access due to security concerns. For example the internet enabled devices may be excluded from direct access to the back end components . In some embodiments the retail stores may communicate with the back end components via the digital network . In other embodiments the retail stores and internet enabled devices may communicate with the back end components via the same digital network but digital access rights IP masking and other network configurations may deny access to the internet enabled devices .

The digital network may be a proprietary network a secure public Internet a virtual private network or some other type of network such as dedicated access lines plain ordinary telephone lines satellite links combinations of these etc. Where the digital network comprises the Internet data communication may take place over the digital network via an Internet communication protocol. In addition to one or more proprietary servers described below the back end components include the central processing system . Of course the retail stores may be communicatively connected to different back end components having one or more functions or capabilities that are similar to the central processing system . The central processing system may include one or more computer processors adapted and configured to execute various software applications and components of the remote printing system in addition to other software applications. The central processing system further includes a database . The database is adapted to store data related to the operation of the remote printing system e.g. customer profile data past print purchases images uploaded to the customer account s etc. The central processing system may access data stored in the database when executing various functions and tasks associated with the operation of the remote printing system .

Although depicts the remote printing system as including the central processing system in communication with three retail stores and various internet enabled devices it should be understood that different numbers of processing systems pharmacies and devices may be utilized. For example the digital network or other digital networks not shown may interconnect the central processing system to a plurality of included central processing systems hundreds of retail stores and thousands of internet enabled devices . According to the disclosed example this configuration may provide several advantages such as for example enabling near real time uploads and downloads of information as well as periodic uploads and downloads of information. This provides for a primary backup of all the information generated in the remote printing process. Alternatively some of the retail stores may store data locally on the facility server and or the workstations .

The controller includes a program memory the processor may be called a microcontroller or a microprocessor a random access memory RAM and the input output I O circuit all of which are interconnected via an address data bus . It should be appreciated that although only one microprocessor is shown the controller may include multiple microprocessors . Similarly the memory of the controller may include multiple RAMs and multiple program memories . Although the I O circuit is shown as a single block it should be appreciated that the I O circuit may include a number of different types of I O circuits. The RAM s and the program memories may be implemented as semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example. A link may operatively connect the controller to the digital network through the I O circuit .

The program memory may also contain machine readable instructions i.e. software for execution by the processor . The software may perform the various tasks associated with operation of the retail store or retail stores and may be a single module or a plurality of modules A B. While the software is depicted in as including two modules A and B the software may include any number of modules accomplishing tasks related to retail store operation including for example receiving print orders managing printing workflow etc. The central processing system implements a server application for providing data to a user interface application operating on the workstations .

For purposes of implementing the remote printing system the user interacts with the proprietary server and the retail store systems e.g. the central processing system via an internet enabled device e.g. mobile device application etc. a specialized application or a plurality of web pages. depicts the proprietary server connected via the network to the internet enabled devices through which a user may initiate and interact with the remote printing system as shown in . The internet enabled devices may include by way of example a tablet computer an internet enabled cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device smart phone also referred to herein as a mobile device a laptop computer a desktop computer a portable media player not shown etc. Of course any internet enabled device appropriately configured may interact with the remote printing system . The internet enabled devices need not necessarily communicate with the network via a wired connection. In some instances the internet enabled devices may communicate with the network via wireless signals and in some instances may communicate with the network via an intervening wireless or wired device which may be a wireless router a wireless repeater a base transceiver station of a mobile telephony provider etc. Each of the internet enabled devices may interact with the proprietary server to receive web pages or server data from the proprietary server and may display the web pages or server data via a client application described below . For example the mobile device may display a home screen i.e. the root or start page at which users enter the client application of the client application to the user may receive an input from the user and may interact with the proprietary server depending on the type of user specified input. As another example the desktop computer may display a social networking website page of a web browser described below . It will be appreciated that although only one proprietary server is depicted in multiple proprietary servers may be provided for the purpose of distributing server load serving different web pages implementing different portions of the retail store web interface etc. These multiple proprietary servers may include a web server an entity specific server e.g. an Apple server etc. a server that is disposed in a retail or proprietary network an independent third party server that is not under the control of the entity etc.

Turning now to the proprietary server like the facility server includes a controller . Similar to the controllers and the controller includes a program memory a microcontroller or a microprocessor MP a random access memory RAM and an input output I O circuit all of which are interconnected via an address data bus . In some embodiments the controller may also include or otherwise be communicatively connected to a database or other data storage mechanism e.g. one or more hard disk drives optical storage drives solid state storage devices etc. . The database may include data such as customer web profiles product data mobile device application data web page templates and or web pages and other data necessary to interact with the user through the network . As discussed with reference to the controllers and it should be appreciated that although depicts only one microprocessor the controller may include multiple microprocessors . Similarly the memory of the controller may include multiple RAMs and multiple program memories . Although the depicts the I O circuit as a single block the I O circuit may include a number of different types of I O circuits. The controller may implement the RAM s and the program memories as semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example.

In addition to being connected through the network to the internet enabled devices as depicted in illustrates that the proprietary server may also be connected through the network to the central processing system and or one or more facility servers . As described below the connection of the proprietary server to the central processing system assists in facilitating some of the functionality of the remote printing process. As a result the proprietary server may act as a routing or interfacing server between the plurality of internet enabled devices and a destination server namely the central processing system . For example the proprietary server may be configured to communicate the central processing system and with the internet enabled device via a multitude of protocols such as packet switched protocols web services web APIs Application Programming Interface etc. The proprietary server may also convert if necessary and route client application data not shown to the appropriate server such as the central process system for example. Additionally the proprietary server may act as the destination server and need not route any data from the internet enabled device .

As shown in the program memory and or the RAM may store various applications for execution by the microprocessor . For example a user interface application may provide a user interface to the proprietary server which user interface may for example allow a network administrator to configure troubleshoot or test various aspects of the server s operation or otherwise to access information thereon. A server application operates to populate and transmit client application data and web pages to the internet enabled devices receive information from the user transmitted back to the proprietary server and forward appropriate data to the central processing system and the facility servers as described below. Like the software of the server application may be a single module or a plurality of modules A B. While the server application is depicted in as including two modules A and B the server application may include any number of modules accomplishing tasks related to implantation of the proprietary server . By way of example the module A may populate and transmit the client application data and or may receive and evaluate inputs from the user to receive a data access request while the module B may communicate with one or more of the back end components to fulfill a data access request.

Referring now to the mobile device or any of the internet enabled devices includes a display a Global Positioning System GPS unit a communication unit an image capture device a user input device not shown and like the proprietary server a controller . Similar to the controllers and the controller includes a program memory one or more microcontroller or a microprocessor MP a random access memory RAM and an input output I O circuit all of which are interconnected via an address data bus . The program memory includes an operating system a data storage a plurality of software applications and a plurality of software routines . The operating system for example may include one of a plurality of mobile platforms such as the iOS Android Palm webOS Windows Mobile Phone BlackBerry OS or Symbian OS mobile technology platforms developed by Apple Inc. Google Inc. Palm Inc. now Hewlett Packard Company Microsoft Corporation Research in Motion RIM and Nokia respectively. The data storage may include data such as user profiles application data for the plurality of applications routine data for the plurality of routines and other data necessary to interact with the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications through the digital network . In some embodiments the controller may also include or otherwise be communicatively connected to other data storage mechanisms e.g. one or more hard disk drives optical storage drives solid state storage devices etc. that reside within the mobile device .

The GPS unit may use Assisted GPS A GPS satellite GPS or any other suitable global positioning protocol or system that locates the position of the mobile device . For example A GPS utilizes terrestrial cell phone towers or wi fi hotspots e.g. wireless router points to more accurately and more quickly determine location of the mobile device while satellite GPS generally are more useful in more remote regions that lack cell towers or wifi hotspots. The communication unit may communicate with the proprietary server via any suitable wireless communication protocol network such as a wireless telephony network e.g. GSM CDMA LTE etc. a wi fi network 802.11 standards a WiMAX network a Bluetooth network etc. The image capture device may be a built in camera within the mobile device or may be an external camera such as a webcam that is communicatively coupled with the mobile device or any other internet enabled device . The user input device not shown may include a soft keyboard that is displayed on the display of the mobile device an external hardware keyboard communicating via a wired or a wireless connection e.g. a Bluetooth keyboard an external mouse or any other suitable user input device. As discussed with reference to the controllers and it should be appreciated that although depicts only one microprocessor the controller may include multiple microprocessors . Similarly the memory of the controller may include multiple RAMs and multiple program memories . Although the depicts the I O circuit as a single block the I O circuit may include a number of different types of I O circuits. The controller may implement the RAM s and the program memories as semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example.

The one or more processors may be adapted and configured to execute any one or more of the plurality of software applications and or any one or more of the plurality of software routines residing in the program memory in addition to other software applications. One of the plurality of applications may be a client application that may be implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for performing the various tasks associated with receiving information at displaying information on and transmitting information from the mobile device . One of the plurality of applications may be a native web browser such as for example Apple s Safari Google Android mobile web browser Microsoft Internet Explorer for Mobile Opera Mobile that may be implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for receiving interpreting and displaying web page information from the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications while also receiving inputs from the user. Another application of the plurality of applications may include a location awareness application that may be implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for receiving interpreting and displaying location information of mobile device or any other internet enabled device from the GPS unit . One of the plurality of routines may include an image capture routine that coordinates with the image capture device to retrieve image data for use with one or more of the plurality of applications such as the client application or for use with other routines. Another routine in the plurality of routines may include an image display routine that receives and interprets image data of any type or format for display. Likewise the image display routine coordinates with the image capture routine to obtain image data and process the image data into a displayable format for use with the client application .

Preferably a customer or a user may launch the client application from an internet enabled device such as one of the internet enabled devices to access the proprietary server cooperating with the central processing system and the pharmacies to implement the remote printing system . Additionally the customer or the user may also launch or instantiate any other suitable user interface application e.g. the web browser or any other one of the plurality of software applications to access the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications to realize the remote printing system . Generally the term user is used when referring to a person who is operating one of the internet enabled devices and is not exclusive of the term customer. As described above one or both of the databases and illustrated in respectively include various information about the retail store s customers and the prints printed by the retail store as well as basic biographical information about the customer such as a customer name a customer address a customer phone number and the like. Customer records are among the exemplary data that the remote printing system may store on the databases and .

As shown in to access the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications the user executes the client application on one of the internet enabled devices such as the mobile device . Using the client application the user may request server data not shown by navigating a series of client application screens such as the home screen of the client application . depict client application pages or screens that the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications may transmit in various embodiments of the remote printing system . In any event the user may launch the client application from one of the internet enabled devices via any suitable manner such as touch selecting a client application icon not shown on the display of the mobile device double clicking on the client application icon via a mouse of a computer or a trackpad not shown of a laptop . After the user launches the client application the home screen of the client application is displayed to the user on the mobile device .

With reference now to a first menu page of the home screen of the client application for example is displayed to the user on the mobile device . The home screen may include a company logo a photo services link and a menu page indicator . In the menu page indicator denotes that only the first menu page of the home screen is currently being displayed. The user may touch swipe on the display of the mobile device to view the second menu page not shown of the home screen . The second menu page of the home screen may display additional links that cannot be accommodated on the first menu page of the home screen e.g. a user log in link a shopping link etc. . In another embodiment using the client application the user may request and navigate a series of web pages such as webpage for instance transmitted preferably in a secure manner e.g. using Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure known as HTTPS by the proprietary server to the internet enabled device . These web pages may be interpreted and displayed via the web browser of the mobile device or via a web browser of the computers . It should be understood that it may be desirable for some or all of the data transmitted from the proprietary server to the internet enabled device or vice versa to be encrypted and or otherwise transmitted in a secure manner.

In any event from the home screen the user may select the Photo link to navigate directly to an image source screen for selecting an image location as shown in that may be displayed on the mobile device via the client application . The image capture screen may include a home button that causes the client application to return to the home screen . An instructional message may provide directions of use that assist the user in properly selecting an image location. An information button may cause the client application to display instructions associated with the remote printing system or cause the web browser of the mobile device or any of the internet enabled devices to navigate to a web page containing such instructions. The image location screen also may include a local storage selector a remote server button or any other suitable indication for the user to select the image location or source from which to retrieve images. For example the local storage selector icon when activated by the user causes the client application to retrieve one or more images from the data storage on the client device memory . Preferably the client application does not require the user to log onto the proprietary network or the client application to retrieve and remotely print the one or images from the data storage on the client device memory . Alternatively the remote server button for example may cause the client application to retrieve images from the proprietary server the central processing system or any other remote server such as a third party server not shown that may store images. The user may be required to log into the proprietary network for the client application to retrieve from a remote server images associated with the user. In any event the user may select the local storage button to navigate to an image album selection screen as shown in that may be displayed on the mobile device via the client application .

As illustrated in the image album selection screen may include a Back selector icon that causes the client application to return to the image source screen or the home screen if the only available image source is the local data storage for example. An image capture button may cause the client application to execute an image capture routine that coordinates with an image capture device to capture an image and provide the image data to the client application . The client application displays the image data from the image capture routine on an image capture screen not shown . In response to receiving the command to display the image capture screen the client application may provide a selection to capture a new image or use the currently display image data on the image capture screen. In response to receiving the command to capture a new image e.g. a blurry previously captured image the client application may again execute the image capture routine that cooperates with the image capture device to capture another image. Alternatively the selection to use the currently captured image e.g. the quality or the subject matter of the currently captured image is acceptable to the user may cause the client application to navigate to an image upload screen as shown in that may be displayed on the mobile device via the client application described below .

In any event referring back to the image album selection screen may also include image album selector icons . Each image album selector icon may indicate a respective image album that may include any number of images. If the user wishes to view the images of a particular image album the user may select one of the image album selector icons to view individual images within a specific image album. For example upon receiving a selection for the Vacation selector icon the client application may navigate to the image selection screen as shown in to view individual images within the Vacation image album. The image selection screen may include the Back selector icon that causes the client application to return to the image album source screen . Similarly as described above the image capture button may cause the client application to execute the image capture routine to capture image data via the image capture device .

In any event the image selection screen may also include individual image selector icons that allow the user to select individual images for printing and a Print selector icon to execute an image upload routine . Each image selector icon may include a thumbnail image or a preview image that allows the user to preview a representation of the full image. The images may be cropped to uniformly display each image to the user in a homogenous manner or any other suitable manner of displaying individual images within the album. Upon receiving a selection of the image selector icon the client application overlays an indication not shown that a particular image selector icon has been selected. The client application may allow for the selection of only one image selector icon or for the selection of multiple image selector icons at once. Upon receiving a selection of the Print selector icon the client application executes the image upload routine that transfers the image or images associated with the selected image selector icon s to the proprietary server .

While uploading or transmitting the image to the proprietary server an image upload screen as shown in may display a status bar that represents the progress of the image upload to the proprietary server on the mobile device via the client application . If the user wishes to cancel the image transfer to the proprietary server the Back selector icon may be selected and the client application may interrupt the uploading process and display a Cancel Upload alert message. The Cancel Upload alert message not shown may request confirmation from the user to abort the image transfer to the proprietary server . In any event if the Back selector icon is not selected the image upload may continue to display image transferring progress via the status bar until successfully transferred to proprietary server . In response to receiving a confirmation that the image successfully uploaded to the proprietary server the client application may display an Upload Complete alert message to the user that requests whether the user would like to upload another image. In receiving a positive response to the Upload Complete alert message the client application may redirect the user back to the image selection screen as shown in to receive another selection of one or more image selector icons to upload the one or more images associated with the selected image selector icons to the proprietary server . Moreover the image selection screen may include an indication not shown that the previously selected and now uploaded image associated with a particular image selector icon has already been selected and uploaded. The indication may include an overlay that states Uploaded or any other suitable manner of indicating that the image associated with the image selector icon has been previously selected and uploaded to the proprietary server .

Referring back to if the client application receives a negative response to the Upload Complete alert message the client application may redirect the user to a print order information screen as shown in that may be displayed on the mobile device via the client application . The print order information screen may include the Back selector icon that may cause the client application to display the image selection screen for the user to select different images for printing. In response to receiving a selection of the Back selector icon the client application may display a Remove all Photos alert message not shown that notifies the user that all uploaded images will be removed if the user wishes to select new images for printing. Similarly if the user selects a Cancel selector icon the client application may display a Cancel message alert not shown to confirm that the user wishes to cancel the print order.

In any event the print order information screen may include an image upload message that specifies the number of images uploaded to the proprietary server . Additionally the print order information screen may include a size selector icon and a quantity selector icon . In response to receiving a selection of the size selector icon the client application may display the availability of one or more print size selections for the selected image or images to the user. For example upon selecting the size selector icon the client application may display a selection to print the image or the images on 4 6 prints 5 7 prints etc. Additionally the client application may display to the user the corresponding price for each different sized print. Upon receiving a selection for the quantity selector icon the client application may display one or more quantities for which the user may select to print multiple copies of the image. Based on the received size and quantity inputs of the user the client application may calculate the total price or quote optionally including sales tax of the print order. Moreover in calculating the total price the client application may also include an applied coupon that the user may enter via the Apply Coupon field . In any event the user may select the Next selector icon to navigate to a retail store selection screen as shown in that may be displayed on the mobile device via the client application .

The retail store selection screen may include the Back selector icon that may cause the client application to display the print order information screen for the user to select a different size and or a different quantity for the select image prints. The retail store selection screen may also include one or more retail store selector icons that allow the user to select a particular retail store associated with a corresponding retail store selector icon in which to pick up one or more image prints. Each retail store selector icon may include a retail store address a distance to the retail store from the current location of the mobile device and an estimated pickup time at which the image prints will be available for pickup at the retail store. The client application may additionally select the retail store for the user by using a pre determined default retail store automatically selecting the most proximal retail store or using any other manner suitable to determine a retail store. Alternatively the user may enter a city and state or a zip code into an address field to view retail stores not residing in the immediate geographical area surrounding the current location of the mobile device . For example in response to receiving a zip code the client application displays a list of retail store locations within the received zip code. In any event when the user selects a particular retail store selector icon the client application may navigate the user to a print order confirmation screen as shown in that may be displayed on the mobile device .

The print order confirmation screen may include the Back selector icon that may cause the client application to display the retail store selection screen for the user to select a different retail store selector icon associated with a retail store location. Moreover the print order confirmation screen may include entry fields for the user to enter biographical information such as a first name entry field a last name entry field a telephone number entry field and an email address entry field . The client application may associate the entered biographical information with the print order so that the retail store may release the image prints to the appropriate customer. The print order confirmation screen may also include the selected retail store selector icon that the user selected on the retail store selection screen of . If the user wishes to change the location of the pick up retail store the user may select the retail store selector icon and in response the client application may redirect the user back to the retail store selection screen of . Referring back to the print order confirmation screen may also include an instructional area that may inform the user of a terms of use agreement or privacy policy information. The user may agree to the terms of use or the privacy policy by clicking a check box etc. After the user confirms the correctness of the entered biographical information the pick up retail store location and the instructional area the user may select a Submit selector icon that finalizes and transmits the print order to the proprietary server . Preferably the client application does not require the user to log onto the proprietary network or the client application to complete the print order but rather use the user s biographical information to associate the print order to the user.

In response to receiving a confirmation from the proprietary server that the print order successfully was entered the client application may display a print order receipt screen as shown in the that may be displayed to the user via the mobile device . The print order receipt screen may include the size of print the quantity of print ordered the total price the user s biographical information and pick up retail store location of the print order. The user may select the Done selector icon when finished reviewing the print order receipt and in response the client application may redirect the user to the home screen of image source screen of etc.

A remote printing method illustrated in provides detail about the exemplary embodiment of the remote printing method executed by the remote printing system . After the remote printing system receives a command from the user to execute an instance of the client application the client application displays the home screen block as shown in to the user via the display of the mobile device . The user may enter the remote printing system in various manners however generally speaking the client application receives a command from the user that invokes the image source screen from the home screen block as described above. In other embodiments the proprietary server may remotely receive a command from the user via the client application on the mobile device to execute the image source screen and in response the proprietary server may send instructions back to the mobile device that cause the client application to execute the image source screen . Of course the user may enter the remote printing system in any other suitable manner such as selecting a print indicator associated with a web browser image that displayed on a social networking website via one of the web enabled devices . In this example when the print indicator is selected the user is redirected to the remote printing system . Preferably the user is not required to log onto the proprietary network or the client application to initiate the remote printing system but may be required to log onto the proprietary network for particular configurations of the remote printing system .

In any event from the image source screen as shown in the user may select for example a local image source by selecting the local storage selector the remote server button or any other means of selecting the image source block . In receiving the selection of the image source from the user the client application may determine subsequent functions to perform based on the selected image source block . In the case that a local image source is selected e.g. selecting the local storage selector of the client application may retrieve one or more images stored in the local data storage of the local program memory of mobile device for instance block . For example the local data storage may include an internal memory of a solid state drive magnetic hard drive etc. Of course local data storage may also include portable data storage that may inserted into a port not shown of a web enabled device or mobile device such as a Secure Digital Card SD Card a Universal Serial Bus USB thumb drive etc. In any event upon retrieving the one or more images from the local data storage the client application may execute the image display routine to uniformly display the retrieved images block . For example the retrieved images may include multiple sizes resolutions etc. that may require processing before displaying the images to the user. The image display routine may crop resize or perform any other image processing technique to uniformly display the images to the user in a grid column etc. pattern. For example the image selector icons are uniformly cropped to an identical size and are aligned in a grid pattern for display to the user as shown on the image selection screen in .

After displaying the retrieved images via the image display routine the client application may receive a selection of one or more displayed images associated with the image selector icons in conjunction with a selection of the Print selector icon from the user to initiate uploading the selected images from the local data storage to the proprietary server block . In response to receiving the Print selector icon the client application may execute the image upload routine to transfer the selected images from the local data storage to the proprietary server block . Of course the proprietary server may store the uploaded images in the database of the proprietary server but also may store the uploaded images in the facility server of the retail store or in the central processing system .

Referring back to the block from the image source screen as shown in if the user alternatively selects the remote server selector icon the client application may retrieve one or more images from the specified remote server such as the proprietary server the central processing system the facility server a cloud server not shown a social networking server not shown a third party server or any other server that may store images block . The client application may utilize a uniform resource identifier URI to obtain the location of the images residing on the remote server and retrieve the images or representations of the images e.g. a low resolution thumbnail image etc. from the location associated with the URI. Alternatively the client application may transmit a URI to the remote server e.g the proprietary server and in response the remote server may transmit the images associated with the URI. In response to retrieving the images from the remote server the client application may execute the image display routine to uniformly display the retrieved images similar to displaying the locally stored images as described above block . The client application may receive a selection of one or more displayed images associated with the image selector icons together with a selection of the Print selector icon from the user to initiate transferring the selected images from the remote server to the proprietary server if necessary block . Of course the selected images may already reside on the proprietary server and thus a transfer may not be necessary.

In any event upon receiving an upload confirmation that the selected images have been uploaded transferred or otherwise already reside on the proprietary server the client application may display the available print sizes and available quantities of the prints e.g. the print order information screen in to the user for the user s selection block . In response to receiving a selection of the print size and the quantity of prints the client application may determine whether a default pickup retail store has been selected block . The default pickup retail store may be a retail store that the user most often frequents a retail store that is closest to the user s home or work etc. If a default pickup retail store has been determined by the user the client application may request the user s biographical information for the print order by displaying for example the print order confirmation screen as shown in block .

On the other hand if the user has not determined the default pickup retail store the client application may execute a location awareness application that coordinates with the GPS unit to geo locate the current location of the web enabled device block . If the current location of the web enabled device is available the client application may determine a list of proximal retail stores to the current location and may display only the retail stores that include the shortest distance to the current location of the web enabled device block . On the other hand if the current location is not available the client application may only receive address information from the user such as receiving address information from the user via the address field on the retail store selection screen in block . Using the location associated with the entered address information the client application may determine a list of proximal retails stores to the location associated with the entered address information and may display only the retail stores that include the shortest distance to the location associated with the entered address information block . The user may select a desired retail store from the displayed retail stores via the retail store selector icons for example. In response to receiving a selection of the retail store the client application may request biographical information from the user as described above.

Referring back to block upon receiving biographical information from the user the client application may create and transmit the print order and associated biographical information to the proprietary server block . If the print order is successfully received by the proprietary server the client application may receive a print order receipt and may display the receipt to the user block .

In an alternative method the user may access the remote printing system through a set of web APIs that may be coupled or embedded within a third party mobile application desktop client browser application etc. that allows a user via the third party application to submit a print order of a selected image to a retail store for purchase and pick up. In this method the remote printing system may provide a SDK Software Development Kit to the third party developer for use in the development of the third party application. The SDK may be tailored specifically for a particular platform such as a browser application a mobile application a desktop client etc. These platforms may include mobile platforms such as iOS Android Palm webOS Windows Mobile Phone BlackBerry OS or Symbian OS mobile technology platforms developed by Apple Inc. Google Inc. Palm Inc. now Hewlett Packard Company Microsoft Corporation Research in Motion RIM and Nokia respectively. Any other platforms for desktop clients etc. may be utilized as well. In any event the server or any other suitable web server in or out of the proprietary network may provide the SDK for download to the third party developer. The SDK may include web APIs or specific commands that provide the functionality required to access and to use the remote printing system . The functionality of these web APIs may include commands or methods for initialization and authentication with the proprietary network for transmitting customer information to the server for uploading images to the server for handling errors with the server for creating modifying a print order for finalizing a print order etc.

In order to implement these functionalities the third party developer may obtain an available SDK that includes the set of web APIs that interact with the proprietary network via the server . The third party developer that wishes to include functionality for accessing the remote printing system may embedded one or more web APIs into the developed third party application. For example a local wedding photographer may wish to include remote printing capabilities on his or her wedding photography company s website desktop client or mobile application. In this example the photographer may hire a third party developer to embed the set of web APIs available via the downloadable SDK from the server for example into the photography company s mobile application or website desktop client etc. Furthermore upon integration of the set of web APIs into the mobile application the photography company s mobile application may allow a user to remotely print any image on the photography company s server not shown . Similar to the client application the third party application may retrieve the one or more images from the local storage cloud storage a remote server storage etc. and upload retrieved images via the embedded web APIs. In this example the user may interact with the mobile application of the photography company and in response to receiving a command to remotely print one or more selected images the mobile application may invoke the commands of the web APIs in order to upload the one or more selected images transmit print order information and receive order receipt information.

More particularly each web API may provide an interface for a third party to interact with the central processing system facility server etc. via the server and proprietary network . The server may be capable of interfacing with and processing multiple requests in one or more protocols that each may originate from a number of different platforms running on different devices. The server may additionally process a request from one unique or proprietary protocol into a centralized or standardized protocol that is of the same communication protocol as both central processing system and facility server . Thus for example the server may process a request to upload an image from a third party mobile application executing on a mobile device running iOS into the standardized protocol and relay the request in the standardized protocol to the central processing system . Likewise by way of example the server may also process a request to confirm a print order from a different third party application executing on a mobile device running Android into the standardized protocol and relay the request in the standardized protocol to the facility server . In this example the server is able to translate the two separate requests from the two different types of mobile device running a different operating systems into a standardize protocol for processing by the remote printing system . Examples of the server capable of processing API requests may include the API management platforms of Apigee Corp. 3scale Inc. Mashery Inc. etc. Similarly the central processing system for example may send a request bound for a mobile device running iOS to the server for translating the request into the proper protocol and for further sending the request onto the mobile device.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of routines subroutines applications or instructions. These may constitute either software e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware. In hardware the routines etc. are tangible units capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description and the claims that follow should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

This detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment as describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. One could implement numerous alternate embodiments using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this application.

