---

title: Provisioning account credentials via a trusted channel
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for provisioning account credentials via a trusted channel. An identification of an account is received. A security credential reset corresponding to the account is requested. The account is linked to a trusted channel of communication for reset purposes. A security credential communication corresponding to the account is received via the trusted channel of communication. The security credential communication may be parsed to obtain a token.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607143&OS=09607143&RS=09607143
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09607143
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150515
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to co pending U.S. Patent Application entitled PROVISIONING ACCOUNT CREDENTIALS VIA A TRUSTED CHANNEL filed on Jun. 21 2013 and assigned application Ser. No. 13 923 830 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Users of mobile devices often rely upon many different accounts with many different service providers. For example a user may have an email account a social networking account a shopping account a gaming account a newspaper subscription account and so on. In some cases an account may be associated with a particular mobile application and two or more mobile applications may use different respective accounts. These accounts may have their own respective usernames passwords and or other security credentials. It may be difficult for users to remember all of their security credentials for all of their various accounts.

The present disclosure relates to provisioning credentials for multiple different accounts through the use of a trusted channel or device. Users often have to contend with a multiplicity of different accounts for different applications network sites and other service providers. Users typically have to keep up with many different security credentials such as usernames and passwords. A single username and password combination for multiple accounts may not be possible due to username collisions and differing username password requirements and even if it were possible it would generally be regarded as a security risk. Applications may enable storing security credentials for future use. Nonetheless a user may have to manually supply security credentials when installing new applications or registering applications on a new device.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure provide an automated approach to registering and or authenticating multiple accounts for a device that is considered trusted. For example as an initial step of setting up a mobile device a user may configure an email account including providing security credentials for the email account. The mobile device then may be regarded as a trusted device once authenticated with the email provider. The user may have designated an email address corresponding to the email account for use in security credential resets for the other accounts of the user. Because the device has access to the email account security credentials for the other accounts may be reset with a token being sent to the trusted device via the email account.

In various embodiments this reset process may be automated for multiple accounts of the user and may involve automatic configuration of temporary or device specific authentication tokens in lieu of an actual reset of the security credentials. Further in various embodiments any medium of communication to a trusted device may be employed including emails to a preconfigured email address phone calls to a preconfigured telephone number text messages to a preconfigured telephone number and so on. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes one or more service provider computing environments and one or more client devices in data communication via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

There may be multiple service provider computing environments corresponding to multiple service providers and services offered by the service providers. Services offered by such service providers may include email services gaming services social networking services electronic commerce services video on demand services and so on. For purposes of convenience the service provider computing environments will be referred to herein in the singular. A user may have one or more accounts for each service. In some cases a service provider may employ identity federation such that a user identity or account may be shared among multiple services and or service providers.

The service provider computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the service provider computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the service provider computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the service provider computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the service provider computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the service provider computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the service provider computing environment for example include a service an authentication endpoint a credential management endpoint and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The service is executed to provide functionality related to email social networking electronic commerce video content delivery and or other types of services for which a user may have an account. The service may encompass any number of back end modules or logic to provide the particular functionality to client devices . The service may communicate with client devices over the network by way of hypertext transfer protocol HTTP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST real time transport protocol RTP and or other protocols and approaches. In one embodiment the service may correspond to a network site such as a web site which is accessed by way of a browser or other client application.

The authentication endpoint is executed to authenticate client devices for access to the service . To this end the authentication endpoint receives one or more security credentials from client devices and determines whether the security credentials are valid for an account. Such credentials may include session identifiers usernames passwords answers to knowledge based questions Kerberos tickets Internet protocol IP addresses and or other forms of security credentials. In one embodiment the authentication endpoint may comprise one or more network pages including forms facilitating entry of security credentials. In another embodiment the authentication endpoint may comprise a uniform resource locator URL facilitating access to an application programming interface API for programmatic submissions of security credentials.

The credential management endpoint is executed to facilitate management of security credentials for user accounts associated with the service . To this end the credential management endpoint may support credential changes and credential resets. A credential change may correspond to a situation where a previous security credential for an account is provided by a client device for authentication purposes and a replacement security credential is established by the client device for the account. A credential reset may correspond to a situation where a previous security credential for an account is forgotten lost unknown or otherwise not provided and a new security credential or reset token is communicated to the owner of the account by way of a trusted channel of communication. In one embodiment the credential management endpoint may comprise one or more network pages including forms facilitating reset and or change requests for security credentials. In another embodiment the credential management endpoint may comprise a uniform resource locator URL facilitating access to an application programming interface API for programmatic submissions of security credential reset and or change requests.

The data stored in the data store includes for example service data user accounts a credential reset format and potentially other data. The service data corresponds to various data resources employed by the service . To this end the service data may include hypertext markup language HTML data extensible markup language XML data images audio video animations executable code and or other data.

The user accounts are employed by a user to authenticate to the authentication endpoint for access to the service . The user accounts may include for example security credentials trusted channels of communication public keys and or other data. The security credentials include for example passwords usernames answers to knowledge based questions session identifiers client device identifiers user biometric data and or any other credential data. The trusted channels of communication correspond to one or more channels of communication to a trusted device for purposes of credential changes and or resets. In other words a trusted client device may be an endpoint for one or more trusted channels of communication .

Such trusted channels of communication are trusted in the sense that they are presumed to be controlled by the owner of the respective user account . In other words access to a trusted channel of communication may be used to authenticate the owner of the respective user account . The decision to trust a particular channel of communication may be made by an organization. For example irrespective of whether email is inherently trustworthy or untrustworthy email may be designated as a trusted channel of communication by an organization that manages or provides the user accounts . Channels that are designated as trusted may later be designated as untrusted in some scenarios.

To illustrate the use of a trusted channel of communication when creating a social networking account a user may provide an email address for reset purposes. The provider of the social networking account may then trust that the email address is controlled by the user because access to the email account corresponding to the email address may facilitate resetting the password to the social networking account. It may be the case that the trusted channel of communication employs a different communication protocol from what is employed by the user account . For example the user account may employ hypertext transfer protocol HTTP while the trusted channel of communication may employ simple mail transfer protocol SMTP .

Non limiting examples of trusted channels of communication may include email accounts telephone lines mailing addresses social networking accounts instant messaging systems voice over internet protocol VoIP channels mobile device management MDM channels trusted input output devices of the client devices managed by a trusted platform module TPM near field communications NFC channels custom communications channels and or other channels of communication.

Certain types of trusted channels of communication such as email and short message service SMS may terminate on multiple client devices . Other types of trusted channels of communication are device specific such that the trusted channel of communication can only terminate at one specific client device . For example a trusted channel of communication may be tied to a specific mobile device by a device identifier. Communications through such a channel may be encrypted using the device identifier. Even if the data traffic to the mobile device is intercepted it remains encrypted and otherwise unusable except for the specific mobile device.

The public keys may correspond to a public private key pair associated with the client device . In one embodiment a public key may be used to encrypt a communication to the client device via the trusted channel of communication . For example a communication that includes new security credentials may be encrypted for the client device using a public key associated with user account . Other service specific data may be stored in association with user accounts such as for example browsing histories order histories watch lists shopping lists email data social networking data subscription data contact information demographic data saved game states and or other data.

The credential reset format corresponds to metadata that may specify network page forms and or APIs to be employed for automatic reset and or change of security credentials via the credential management endpoint for the service . The credential reset format may specify URLs form field names data types for form fields and or other data to be used by the client device in creating a credential reset and or change request.

The client device is representative of a plurality of client device that may be coupled to the network . The client device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The client device may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays electrophoretic ink E ink displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The client device may be configured to execute various logic such as applications an account configuration manager and or other executable logic. The applications may be executed in a client device for example to access network content served up by services in the service provider computing environment and or other servers thereby rendering a user interface on the display . The applications may for example correspond to browsers mobile applications social networking applications email applications shopping applications productivity applications media applications etc. and the user interface may correspond to a network page a mobile application screen etc.

The account configuration manager is executed to manage authentication of the applications with respective services by way of authentication endpoints . In one embodiment the applications may be configured to rely upon the account configuration manager on an on going basis to perform authentication. In another embodiment the applications may rely upon an integrated credential manager or an operating system based credential manager to perform authentication. Further the account configuration manager may be executed to perform automatic initial configuration of applications with regard to establishing credentials for services as will be described. To this end the account configuration manager may initiate the sending of credential reset requests to various credential management endpoints . In response the account configuration manager may receive and process security credential communications sent by the service provider computing environment via a trusted channel of communication that has been configured in the client device .

The client device may store various data including for example managed security credentials keys credential reset formats and or other data. The managed security credentials include various credentials that are managed established and or received by the account configuration manager . In various scenarios the account configuration manager may be configured to automatically generate managed security credentials according to security credential specifications. Also the account configuration manager may be configured to periodically rotate or change the managed security credentials in an automated manner.

The keys may correspond to public private key pairs employed to encrypt and decrypt data via the trusted channel of communication configured in the client device . For example the service provider computing environment may be configured to encrypt security credentials such as reset tokens temporary passwords one time passwords etc. using a public key that corresponds to a private key of the keys . The encrypted data may then be sent over an insecure network using the trusted channel of communication . The credential reset formats correspond to one or more credential reset formats that have been obtained from one or more service provider computing environments . In one embodiment the credential reset formats may be obtained from another computing device such as a third party server that functions as a repository for many credential reset formats . In some cases the credential reset formats may be crowd sourced rather than distributed by the service providers.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a user may configure a trusted channel of communication on the client device . To this end the user may configure an application of the client device to access an email account social networking account or other messaging account. In doing so the user may enter credentials such as a username password and or other credentials for the account. Where the trusted channel of communication is a telephone line a subscriber identity module SIM or other authentication facilitating hardware component may be inserted into the client device . Alternatively the client device may be preconfigured to access the trusted channel of communication . Once the client device has access to the trusted channel of communication the client device may be regarded as a trusted device for specific user accounts insofar as the trusted channel of communication may be included in the trusted channels of communication that are associated with the specific user accounts .

Various applications may be preinstalled upon the client device and or may be downloaded to the client device by the user. These applications may be employed to access services via a user account . The account configuration manager facilitates automatic configuration of managed security credentials for these applications so that the applications may access corresponding user accounts . For example the user may indicate which applications and or services are to be used. The user may specify usernames and or other identifying credentials for the user accounts .

The account configuration manager may then automatically initiate credential reset requests to be sent to the respective credential management endpoints via the network . One or more credential reset formats are employed by the account configuration manager to initiate the credential reset requests . It may be that different services are associated with different credential reset formats . The account configuration manager may be bundled with various credential reset formats may request credential reset formats from the specific service provider computing environments or may request credential reset formats from third party servers.

In some scenarios precisely which credential reset format may be used for a credential reset request may be unknown to the account configuration manager . In such cases the account configuration manager may attempt to initiate credential reset requests by selecting a random credential reset format . The account configuration manager may randomly try different credential reset formats until one actually works assuming that the credential management endpoints provide feedback that an attempted reset fails.

A credential reset format may define a particular URL to access along with a format for specifying a username or other identifier corresponding to the user account . The username or other identifier may be encoded for example as GET or POST data within an HTTP request. Other data may be specified such as answers to knowledge based questions. Such answers may be stored by the client device in the managed security credentials or elicited from the user as needed. For various services the credential reset requests may involve a back and forth with the corresponding credential management endpoint .

As a non limiting example the account configuration manager may submit a credential reset request to a credential management endpoint for a username jsmith545. In response the credential management endpoint may request an answer to a knowledge based question e.g. What is your favorite color The account configuration manager may be configured by the credential reset format to parse this request to determine the type of knowledge based question. Then the account configuration manager can obtain a corresponding previously stored answer or prompt the user to provide an answer. The account configuration manager next returns the answer to the credential management endpoint .

In response to the credential reset request being initiated the credential management endpoint sends a security credential communication to one or more trusted channels of communication previously associated with the particular user account . The security credential communication may include a one time password a temporary password a password reset token a session token a device specific credential that is specific to the client device and or other type of security credential . In one embodiment the credential management endpoint may encrypt the security credential communication using a public key associated with the user account .

In one embodiment the security credential communication may be sent via multiple trusted channels of communication using an approach such as Shamir s Secret Sharing or another approach. As a non limiting example a security credential communication may correspond to a password and the password may be split into two parts. The first part may be sent to a first email address and the second part may be sent to a telephone number as a text message. Recovery of both portions of the security credential communication may be necessary to gain access to the corresponding user account . In one scenario a portion of a password or other credential may be assumed to be known by the user and not sent in the security credential communication .

The account configuration manager may automatically intercept the security credential communication received via the trusted channel s of communication . Where the security credential communication is encrypted the account configuration manager may decrypt the security credential communication using the keys . Per the particular credential reset format the account configuration manager may automatically parse the security credential communication which may be in the form of text audio images etc. to extract one or more security credentials . The extracted security credentials may be ready for use to authenticate the application to the authentication endpoint . If so the extracted security credentials may be added to the managed security credentials and the application may be configured to employ the managed security credentials for authentication.

Alternatively where the extracted security credentials include a reset token reset URL or temporary password the account configuration manager may be configured to communicate with the credential management endpoint using the extracted security credentials in order to establish new security credentials . Such security credentials may be automatically generated by the account configuration manager and then communicated to the credential management endpoint by way of form filling and or an API. The format for communication may be specified by a credential reset format . In some cases the security credential communication may include metadata specifying the format for communication. Upon registration of a new security credential with the credential management endpoint the new security credential may be added to the managed security credentials and the application may be configured to employ the managed security credentials for authentication. In some cases multiple applications may be configured to share a managed security credential for a single user account . Such credential sharing may be automatic pursuant to configuration data for example and may be subject to a manual confirmation or override.

In this manner managed security credentials may be established automatically for a number of different applications and a number of different services corresponding to multiple user accounts . In this way configuration of a new client device becomes greatly simplified for the user. For example in some cases the user configures only the trusted channel of communication and the security credential configuration for the rest of the applications is automated. When a user installs an additional application the credential configuration for the additional application may proceed in a similar automated manner. It is noted that in some cases a plurality of different services may employ the same user account or identity. Further in some cases a single application e.g. a browser or another application may be configured for multiple user accounts for one or more services . For example a user may have separate user accounts for personal and business use.

The automated configuration of managed security credentials as described herein may be utilized for session authentication in addition to initial application setup. The result of a credential reset request may be a session token returned via the security credential communication . The application may be configured with the session token for authentication with the authentication endpoint for the duration of the session e.g. until the application is closed until a log out from the session for a predefined time period or another duration.

The system described herein may be capable of supporting multiple client devices for a user. In one embodiment one client device may be capable of exchanging and synchronizing the managed security credentials with another client device via Bluetooth near field communication NFC or another networking approach. The managed security credentials may each be associated with the last reset time so that the most recent managed security credentials may be determined and populated on each of the client devices . The client devices among which the managed security credentials are synchronized may be paired using various pairing approaches. In another embodiment the managed security credentials may be specific to a particular client device and potentially specific to the client device being in a certain location or meeting other criteria. Thus in such an embodiment a credential reset would not necessarily revoke other managed security credentials for other client devices .

The account configuration manager may employ various techniques for credential management and rotation portability of credentials across multiple client devices and other functions. For example techniques relating to authentication management are described by U.S. Patent Application entitled AUTHENTICATION MANAGER filed on Aug. 12 2009 having application Ser. No. 12 539 886 U.S. Patent Application entitled MANAGING SECURITY CREDENTIALS filed on Jul. 29 2011 having application Ser. No. 13 194 287 U.S. Patent Application entitled ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT FOR MULTIPLE NETWORK SITES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 654 U.S. Patent Application entitled AUTHENTICATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 664 U.S. Patent Application entitled PRESENTING MANAGED SECURITY CREDENTIALS TO NETWORK SITES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 675 U.S. Patent Application entitled RECOVERY OF MANAGED SECURITY CREDENTIALS filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 681 U.S. Patent Application entitled LOGOUT FROM MULTIPLE NETWORK SITES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 685 U.S. Patent Application entitled MAPPING STORED CLIENT DATA TO REQUESTED DATA USING METADATA filed on Nov. 16 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 679 254 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Various techniques relating to authentication using a trusted device are described by U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 228 192 entitled PASSWORDLESS STRONG AUTHENTICATION USING TRUSTED DEVICES and filed on Sep. 8 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Referring next to shown is one example of a user interface rendered on a display of a client device from the networked environment . The user interface is rendered by the account configuration manager for the user to specify trusted channels of communication that have been configured for the client device . To this end the account configuration manager may automatically detect email accounts social networking accounts telephone lines and or other channels of communication that have been configured. A listing may be provided to allow the user to select or deselect various channels that have been automatically detected and previously configured. In this non limiting example an email account and a telephone line have been detected. A channel addition component may be provided for the user to configured another channel of communication e.g. to allow a user to configure another email account or other channel. A continue component may be provided for the user to accept the selection via the listing and continue to the next stage in a configuration procedure.

Turning now to shown is one example of a user interface rendered on a display of a client device from the networked environment . The user interface is rendered by the account configuration manager for the user to indicate specific applications and or specific services with which the application communicate. Automatic configuration of the applications and or services may then proceed based at least in part on the identified applications and or services . The user interface includes a listing of detected applications and or services in the client device . The user may select or deselect which applications and or services are to be automatically configured via the trusted channels of communication . A continue component may be provided for the user to accept the selection via the listing and continue to the next stage in a configuration procedure.

Moving on to shown is one example of a user interface rendered on a display of a client device from the networked environment . The user interface is rendered by the account configuration manager for the user to specify a username or otherwise indicate an initial credential to identify the particular user account for an application or service . To this end the user interface includes a username field through which the user may enter the username. The user interface may also include a default username selection component to allow a previously configured default username to be employed when selected. For example a user may typically employ their primary email address as a username and the user may configure this username as the default username in the account configuration manager . A continue component may be provided for the user to accept the username setting for the particular application and or service and continue to the next stage in a configuration procedure.

Continuing next to shown is an example security credential communication received by the account configuration manager from a credential management endpoint . The security credential communication corresponds to a password reset email that includes a reset token . The account configuration manager may be configured to automatically intercept and parse this password reset email and thereby extract the reset token . A credential reset format may for example define the reset token as being the text following the character at the end of the third paragraph of the password reset email. The reset token may be automatically extracted by the account configuration manager . The account configuration manager may then employ the reset token to finish programmatically resetting the security credentials for the corresponding user account and to gain access to a corresponding service .

Referring next to shown is one example of a security credential communication that may be returned to the account configuration manager upon submitting a credential reset request specifying the reset token of . In particular the security credential communication corresponds to a rendered network page. It is noted that the underlying code for the network page may be interpreted programmatically by the account configuration manager without being rendered upon the display . However for purposes of discussion the network page is shown in as it may be graphically rendered upon the display .

The network page is customized for resetting the security credentials for a particular user account determined based at least in part on the reset token that was presented. In this case the user account is for John Smith. A profile image or other predetermined content may be rendered in the network page to confirm to the owner of the user account that the network page has originated from the authentic source. A form is provided for entry of a new security credential i.e. a new password. The new password may be automatically generated by the account configuration manager and established with the credential management endpoint by automatically filling and submitting the form . The account configuration manager may be configured to fill the form correctly based at least in part upon metadata within the network page and or based at least in part upon a credential reset format .

The credential management endpoint may then return a response verifying whether the security credential has been successfully established. If correctly established the account configuration manager may then store the credential in the managed security credentials and configure the corresponding application to use the managed security credential . If not correctly established the account configuration manager may repeat the credential reset request and or request manual user intervention.

Moving on to shown is an example security credential communication received by the account configuration manager from a credential management endpoint . The security credential communication corresponds to a password reset text message that includes a new password . The account configuration manager may be configured to automatically intercept and parse this password reset text message and thereby extract the new password . In some scenarios the text message would not be displayed for the user. For example an SMS control message may be employed for the security credential communication

A credential reset format may for example define the new password as being the text following a whitespace character at the end of the text message not including the trailing period. The account configuration manager may then employ the new password to finish configuring an application to access a service using the new password .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the account configuration manager according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the account configuration manager as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the client device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the account configuration manager configures one or more trusted channels of communication in the client device . Such trusted channels of communication may be preconfigured in the client device . Alternatively trusted channels of communication may be configured by the user via a user interface similar to that shown in . Through such a user interface the user may indicate which of the trusted channels of communication are to be monitored for security credential communications . The client device may be configured to access an email account or other trusted channel of communication in response to receiving credentials for the email account.

In box the account configuration manager obtains an identification of user accounts for which authentication is to be configured by the account configuration manager . For example a user interface such as that shown in may be employed for a user to select from multiple detected applications and or services accessed by the applications . A user may specify usernames and or other identifying information for the user accounts . In another embodiment the identifiers or usernames for the user accounts may be centrally stored. For example a user may supply a single identifier which may be used by the account configuration manager to obtain a collection of identifiers from a networked data store.

In box the account configuration manager requests access to the user accounts which are linked to the trusted channels of communication . For example a user account may be preconfigured so that password reset emails go to a specific email account corresponding to a trusted channel of communication . In requesting access the account configuration manager submits access requests such as one or more credential reset requests to one or more credential management endpoints corresponding to the user accounts via the network .

In box the account configuration manager receives one or more security credential communications for the user accounts via the trusted channels of communication . Such security credential communications may include email messages as in network pages as in text messages as in telephone voice calls and or other forms of communication. In box the account configuration manager determines whether the security credential communication is encrypted. If the security credential communication is encrypted the account configuration manager decrypts it in box using the keys . The account configuration manager continues to box . If the security credential communication is not encrypted the account configuration manager proceeds directly from box to box .

In box the account configuration manager determines whether to create a replacement security credential . For example the security credential communication may have returned a reset token for establishing a new password or the security credential communication may have returned a temporary password that may be changed. If a replacement security credential is to be created the account configuration manager moves to box and generates the replacement security credential . Further the account configuration manager authenticates with the credential management endpoint and attempts to establish the replacement security credential for the user account via a credential change interface e.g. while authenticated. In some embodiments a replacement security credential may be supplied contemporaneously with an authentication token. The account configuration manager continues to box . If a replacement security credential is not to be created the account configuration manager continues from box to box .

In box the account configuration manager configures one or more applications to access the services via the user accounts based at least in part on the security credential communications . In doing so the account configuration manager may store the security credentials in the managed security credentials . The account configuration manager may configure an application specific credential manager and or an operating system credential manager to use the security credentials . Alternatively the account configuration manager may detect when the various applications are ready to authenticate e.g. presenting a username password form and then provide the corresponding managed security credentials by way of form filling or an API. Thereafter the portion of the account configuration manager ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the service provider computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The service provider computing environment includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the service the authentication endpoint the credential management endpoint and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the client device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The client device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor a memory and a display all of which are coupled to a local interface . The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the applications the account configuration manager the trusted channel of communication which may correspond to an application or a dedicated device and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

Referring now to both it is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the service the authentication endpoint the credential management endpoint the account configuration manager the applications the trusted channel of communication and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the account configuration manager . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the service the authentication endpoint the credential management endpoint the applications the trusted channel of communication and the account configuration manager that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

