---

title: Methods, apparatuses and computer program products for updating a content item
abstract: Methods, apparatuses and computer program products are provided for updating a content item. In this regard, a current context associated with a content item can be determined based on criteria such as, a user's tendencies, user preferences, battery level, time of day, etc. The current context of the content item can be active or inactive. If a content item is in an active current context and an associated triggering event occurs, the content item can be updated. If the content item is in an inactive current context, the content item need not be updated. Content items may be updated in various manners, including generating a preview of the content item. A preview of a content item may be generated by retrieving the content item via an interface, where the interface is determined from data associated with the content item. Upon retrieval of a content item via the interface, a preview of the content item can be generated, such as by generating an image file having associated metadata. The metadata maybe used for linking the preview to additional, related content items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613034&OS=09613034&RS=09613034
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09613034
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20150825
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 100 764 filed Apr. 10 2008 entitled Methods Apparatuses And Computer Program Products For Updating A Content Item the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to retrieving information or content and more particularly relate to various methods apparatuses and computer program products for updating content items associated with an electronic device.

The modern communications era has brought about a tremendous expansion of wireline and wireless networks. Computer networks television networks and telephony networks are experiencing an unprecedented technological expansion fueled by consumer demand. Wireless and mobile networking technologies have addressed related consumer demands while providing more flexibility and immediacy of information transfer.

This explosive growth of mobile communications networks has followed the evolution of mobile devices such as cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs and other portable electronic devices from luxury items to ubiquitous devices integrated into the everyday lives of individuals from all walks of life. The widespread adoption of mobile devices and the expanding capabilities of the wireless networks over which they communicate has allowed for a tremendous expansion in the applications which mobile devices are capable of executing. In addition to providing for phone service many mobile devices now execute applications such as email retrieval web browsing web feed services navigation services through the use of GPS camera and video capturing digital music and video playback. In some instances users may be unaware applications are running processes in the background to provide services to the user. These and other applications may also interface with networks to transmit and receive data for a user.

While this expansion in the applications of mobile devices has been revolutionary the added applications do have drawbacks. For example each additional application executed by a mobile can also have corresponding power consumption. Additionally users may not appreciate the power consumption and processing consumption associated with these applications since many applications may include processes running in the background. As such overall power consumption of mobile terminals is becoming increasingly problematic for users because batteries are draining at increasing rates. Further while power utilization is rapidly increasing on mobile terminals the power storage capacity of mobile devices i.e. the power storage capacity of batteries is remaining constant or increasing at a relatively slower pace. Applications that make continuous attempts to retrieve data such as email web feeds or other web content can cause substantial reductions in battery levels when considered in the aggregate. The increased and variable power consumption associated with these applications can present problems to users in that batteries can drain at increasingly rapid rates.

Additionally the increasing number of applications being utilized by mobile terminals is also impacting network resources. For example an email client may download email to a mobile terminal at some regular interval consuming network during each download. Further other applications such as web feeds and various widgets may also be downloading and or uploading data across the network consuming resources. Each of these applications also consumes a corresponding portion of the network s resources. In the aggregate these applications can have significant impacts. As a result latency and quality of service can be detrimentally affected.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide methods apparatuses and computer program products that limit power consumption and impact to the network but also provide for the needs and wants of users. In particular in would be advantageous to provide applications for electronic devices that are power and network resource conscious but continue to provide a user with a level of service that is acceptable to the user.

Various methods apparatuses and computer program products are therefore provided in accordance with embodiments of the present invention to at least partially address the foregoing issues by providing acceptable service while limiting power consumption. In various embodiment a method apparatus and computer program product are provided to update a content item by determining the current context of a content item where the current context of the content item can be based on one or more criteria. In this regard the current context of a content item may be active or inactive. According to various embodiments the current context associated with a content item may be determined based upon a current battery level. The exemplary method apparatus or computer program product of one embodiment may also identifies the occurrence of a triggering event associated with the content item and updates the content item in response to a triggering event if the current context of the content item is active. A content item with an active current context may be updated but a content item with an inactive current context may not be updated.

In some embodiments the triggering event may be the exhaustion of a timer associated with the content item. In this regard the timer may include a duration where the duration of the timer can be based on one or more criteria. The triggering event may also occur when a current context of a content item is changed to active. Additionally according to various embodiments updating the content item can include retrieving the content item and generating a conditioned form of the content item. In some embodiments the conditioned form of the content item can be a preview.

Further various methods apparatuses and computer program products are provided for generating a preview by determining an interface from data associated with a content item retrieving the content item via the interface and generating a preview of the content item with the preview potentially including associated metadata. In some embodiments the preview can be an image file rendered from the content item. Further according to various embodiments the determined interface can be a widget any kind of feed application various other plug ins or the like.

Additionally in some embodiments a request to update a content item can be received where the request can be generated based on the current context of the content item and a triggering event. Further some embodiments may include providing for an output of the preview and providing for interaction with the preview via metadata. The interaction with the preview may include linking to a related content item via the metadata retrieving the related content item and generating a preview of the related content item. Some embodiments may also include storing the preview in a preview database and retrieving the preview from the preview database.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

The system and method of embodiments of the present invention will be primarily described below in conjunction with mobile communications applications. However it should be understood that the system and method of embodiments of the present invention can be utilized in conjunction with a variety of other applications both in the mobile communications industries and outside of the mobile communications industries.

The mobile terminal includes an antenna or multiple antennae in operable communication with a transmitter and a receiver . The mobile terminal further includes an apparatus such as a controller or other processing element that provides signals to and receives signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system and also user speech received data and or user generated data. In this regard the mobile terminal is capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile terminal is capable of operating in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols or the like. For example the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols or the like.

It is understood that the apparatus such as the controller includes means such as circuitry desirable for implementing audio and logic functions of the mobile terminal . For example the controller may be comprised of a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile terminal are allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The controller thus may also include the functionality to convolutionally encode and interleave message and data prior to modulation and transmission. The controller can additionally include an internal voice coder and may include an internal data modem. Further the controller may include functionality to operate one or more software programs which may be stored in memory. For example the controller may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a conventional Web browser. The connectivity program may then allow the mobile terminal to transmit and receive Web content such as location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like for example.

The mobile terminal may also comprise a user interface including an output device such as a conventional earphone or speaker a microphone a display and a user input interface all of which are coupled to the controller . The user input interface which allows the mobile terminal to receive data may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile terminal to receive data such as a keypad a touch display not shown or other input device. In embodiments including the keypad the keypad may include the conventional numeric 0 9 and related keys and other hard and or soft keys used for operating the mobile terminal . Alternatively the keypad may include a conventional QWERTY keypad arrangement. The keypad may also include various soft keys with associated functions. In addition or alternatively the mobile terminal may include an interface device such as a joystick or other user input interface.

The mobile terminal further includes a battery such as a vibrating battery pack for powering various circuits that are required to operate the mobile terminal as well as optionally providing mechanical vibration as a detectable output. Mobile terminal can also be powered by supplemental power source . Supplemental power source can be any power source that is not the primary power source of mobile terminal . Further supplemental power source can take various forms including but not limited to a power adapter electrically connected to a wall outlet or other electrical outlet in for example a vehicle or airplane. Supplemental power source may provide power directly to mobile terminal . Supplemental power source may also indirectly provide power to mobile terminal by charging battery while battery provides power directly to mobile terminal . As such in some embodiments even though mobile terminal may be connected to supplemental power source mobile terminal may not operate until battery has received a sufficient charge from supplemental power source . Further supplemental power source can be removable from mobile terminal to permit unfettered mobility of mobile terminal . When supplemental power source is removed or disconnected either physically or electrically battery can be the sole power source of mobile terminal .

Controller of mobile terminal can include functionality and or circuitry to detect a battery level of battery . The battery level can be any indication of the remaining charge or consumption time remaining with respect to battery . Controller can use the battery level when considering whether to perform various operations. Controller can also detect whether mobile terminal is connected to a supplemental power source . Controller may detect the connection of a supplemental power source directly via for example an input to controller or controller may detect the connection of supplemental power source by detecting increasing or maximized battery level reading associated with battery .

The mobile terminal may also include a content updater . Content updater may be any means device or circuitry embodied in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software that is capable of updating a content item on the mobile terminal . Content updater may update a content item to volatile memory or non volatile memory . A content item can be any type of information or data that has been selected by a user to be kept in an updated state on the mobile terminal. Content items can include but are not limited to web pages web feeds Really Simple Syndication RSS feeds podcasts podcast feeds email voicemail Short Message Service SMS messages instant messages music videos material retrieved via plug ins material retrieved via widgets i.e. applications for retrieving an displaying only particular data associated with the widget or material retrieved via any application utilizing a network connection to access the material. A content item may include information from more than a single location such as a single web page. In this regard a content item may include data from multiple locations such as web pages on a common website and web pages related via links such as hyperlinks. Content items can also include associated data that can be used to determine an interface or application that can be used to retrieve the content item.

In various embodiments content updater can be a software application that is stored in memory and executed by controller of mobile terminal and as such may be embodied by controller of mobile terminal . Content updater can update a content item in response to the current context associated with the content item i.e. an active or inactive context and a triggering event. If the current context and triggering event can satisfy various criteria as described below mobile terminal can use a connected network such as the network of to retrieve and update the content item. The content item can be updated on the mobile device to facilitate fast and power conscious retrieval of the content item or a conditioned version of the content item from memory that can be local to the mobile terminal.

The mobile terminal may further include a positioning sensor such as for example a global positioning system GPS module in communication with the controller . The positioning sensor may be any means device or circuitry for locating the position of mobile terminal . The positioning sensor may include all hardware for locating the position of a mobile terminal . Alternatively or additionally the positioning sensor may utilize a memory device of the mobile terminal to store instructions for execution by the controller in the form of software necessary to determine the position of the mobile terminal . Although the positioning sensor of this example may be a GPS module the positioning sensor may include or otherwise alternatively be embodied as for example an assisted global positioning system Assisted GPS sensor or a positioning client which may be in communication with a network device to receive and or transmit information such as a sky or floor sensor for use in determining a position of the mobile terminal . In this regard the position of the mobile terminal may be determined by GPS as described above cell ID signal triangulation or other mechanisms as well. In one exemplary embodiment the positioning sensor can include a pedometer or inertial sensor. Positioning sensor may also include an accelerometer that can be used to determine if mobile terminal is moving or shaking.

As such the positioning sensor may be capable of determining a location of the mobile terminal such as for example longitudinal and latitudinal directions and altitude direction of the mobile terminal or a position relative to a reference point such as a destination or start point. Information from the positioning sensor may then be communicated to a memory of the mobile terminal or to another memory device to be stored as a position history or location information. Additionally the positioning sensor may be capable of utilizing the controller to transmit receive via the transmitter receiver location information such as the position of the mobile terminal .

The mobile terminal may further include a user identity module UIM . The UIM is typically a memory device having a processor built in. The UIM may include for example a subscriber identity module SIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC a universal subscriber identity module USIM a removable user identity module R UIM etc. The UIM typically stores information elements related to a mobile subscriber. In addition to the UIM the mobile terminal may be equipped with memory. For example the mobile terminal may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The mobile terminal may also include other non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory can additionally or alternatively comprise an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like such as that available from the SanDisk Corporation of Sunnyvale Calif. or Lexar Media Inc. of Fremont Calif. The memories can store any of a number of pieces of information and data used by the mobile terminal to implement the functions of the mobile terminal . For example the memories can include an identifier such as an international mobile equipment identification IMEI code capable of uniquely identifying the mobile terminal .

The MSC can be coupled to a data network such as a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN and or a wide area network WAN . The MSC can be directly coupled to the data network. In one typical embodiment however the MSC is coupled to a gateway device GTW and the GTW is coupled to a WAN such as the Internet . In turn devices such as processing elements e.g. personal computers server computers or the like can be coupled to the mobile terminal via the Internet . For example as explained below the processing elements can include one or more processing elements associated with a computing system and or the like as described below.

The BS can also be coupled to a signaling GPRS General Packet Radio Service support node SGSN . As known to those skilled in the art the SGSN is typically capable of performing functions similar to the MSC for packet switched services. The SGSN like the MSC can be coupled to a data network such as the Internet . The SGSN can be directly coupled to the data network. In a more typical embodiment however the SGSN is coupled to a packet switched core network such as a GPRS core network . The packet switched core network is then coupled to another GTW such as a GTW GPRS support node GGSN and the GGSN is coupled to the Internet . In addition to the GGSN the packet switched core network can also be coupled to a GTW . Also the GGSN can be coupled to a messaging center. In this regard the GGSN and the SGSN like the MSC may be capable of controlling the forwarding of messages such as MMS messages. The GGSN and SGSN may also be capable of controlling the forwarding of messages for the mobile terminal to and from the messaging center.

In addition by coupling the SGSN to the GPRS core network and the GGSN devices such as a computing system may be coupled to the mobile terminal via the Internet SGSN and GGSN . In this regard devices such as the computing system may communicate with the mobile terminal across the SGSN GPRS core network and the GGSN . By directly or indirectly connecting mobile terminals and the other devices e.g. computing system federated search service etc. to the Internet the mobile terminals may communicate with the other devices and with one another such as according to the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like to thereby carry out various functions of the mobile terminals .

Although not every element of every possible mobile network is shown and described herein it should be appreciated that the mobile terminal may be coupled to one or more of any of a number of different networks through the BS . In this regard the network s may be capable of supporting communication in accordance with any one or more of a number of first generation 1G second generation 2G 2.5G third generation 3G 3.9G fourth generation 4G mobile communication protocols or the like. For example one or more of the network s can be capable of supporting communication in accordance with 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 TDMA GSM and IS 95 CDMA . Also for example one or more of the network s can be capable of supporting communication in accordance with 2.5G wireless communication protocols GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE or the like. Further for example one or more of the network s can be capable of supporting communication in accordance with 3G wireless communication protocols such as a UMTS network employing WCDMA radio access technology. Some narrow band analog mobile phone service NAMPS as well as total access communication system TACS network s may also benefit from embodiments of the present invention as should dual or higher mode mobile stations e.g. digital analog or TDMA CDMA analog phones .

The mobile terminal can further be coupled to one or more wireless access points APs . The APs may comprise access points configured to communicate with the mobile terminal in accordance with techniques such as for example radio frequency RF Bluetooth BT infrared IrDA or any of a number of different wireless networking techniques including wireless LAN WLAN techniques such as IEEE 802.11 e.g. 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n etc. also known as Wi Fi world interoperability for microwave access WiMAX techniques such as IEEE 802.16 and or ultra wideband UWB techniques such as IEEE 802.15 and or the like. The APs may be coupled to the Internet . Like with the MSC the APs can be directly coupled to the Internet . In one embodiment however the APs are indirectly coupled to the Internet via a GTW . Furthermore in one embodiment the BS may be considered as another AP . As will be appreciated by directly or indirectly connecting the mobile terminals and the computing system and or any of a number of other devices to the Internet the mobile terminals can communicate with one another the computing system etc. to thereby carry out various functions of the mobile terminals such as to transmit data content or the like to and or receive content data or the like from the computing system . As used herein the terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted received and or stored in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

As will be appreciated by directly or indirectly connecting the mobile terminals and the computing system and or any of a number of other devices to the Internet the mobile terminals can communicate with one another or the computing system to thereby carry out various functions of the mobile terminals such as to transmit data content or the like to and or receive content data or the like from the computing system .

Although not shown in in addition to or in lieu of coupling the mobile terminal to computing systems and or federated search service across the Internet the mobile terminal and computing system and or the federated search service may be coupled to one another and communicate in accordance with for example RF BT IrDA or any of a number of different wireline or wireless communication techniques including LAN WLAN WiMAX UWB techniques and or the like. One or more of the computing system and federated search service can additionally or alternatively include a removable memory capable of storing content which can thereafter be transferred to the mobile terminal . Further the mobile terminal can be coupled to one or more electronic devices such as printers digital projectors and or other multimedia capturing producing and or storing devices e.g. other terminals Like with the computing system and federated search service the mobile terminal may be configured to communicate with the portable electronic devices in accordance with techniques such as for example RF BT IrDA or any of a number of different wireline or wireless communication techniques including universal serial bus USB LAN WLAN WiMAX UWB techniques and or the like.

At the current context of a content item can be determined by for example content updater controller of mobile terminal or other means. The current context can be determined with respect to a content item and the current context can be set to a predefined current context. According to various embodiments a current context can be set to active or inactive. In some embodiments a current context may also be set to additional or different states such as for example a current context can be set to sleep vacation home etc. In embodiments where an active current context is defined situations may result where some content items are set to an active current context while others are not. According to various embodiments of the present invention when the current context of a content item is active the content item may be updated and when the current context of a content item is inactive the content item may not updated.

In determining whether the current context is active or inactive various criteria can be considered. Any number of criteria may be considered in determining the current context of a content item for example a heuristic approach may be employed that evaluates numerous criteria or in some embodiments a single criterion may unilaterally determine the current context. Criteria that may be considered can include but should not be limited to past user tendencies user preferences battery level location available networks time of day scheduled events such as calendar or alarm clock events current user interactions with the mobile terminal and a current profile of a mobile terminal. With regard to the various criteria in some embodiments the current context may be dependant upon the context of a device that may output the content. As such criteria may be considered that target context of the device. For example the context of a mobile terminal having a low battery may be considered in determining the context of a content item.

Based on the criteria a current context may be determined by evaluating the criteria in accordance with predefined rules or in accordance with a predefined algorithm. In this regard the current context of all or at least a plurality of content items can be determined in accordance with a common set of rules or algorithms or separate rules or algorithms may be utilized to determine the current context of each different content item. Through the use of these various rules or algorithms the current context can be determined so as to reduce the impact of updating content items on resources so as to conserve power and processing capability while limiting the impact of non continuous content updates on the user that is by ensuring that the content that is likely to be of interest to the user is up to date even if other content i.e. inactive content is not.

In determining the current context past user tendencies may be considered. With respect to past user tendencies content updater can log or otherwise track when and how a user interacts with a particular content item. Use patterns can be developed based on the user s actions. A use pattern can be stored and used predict future behavior of the user. Use patterns can be derived in any way and can be based on any information or events that are available to the mobile terminal. For example if after a telephone call from her stock broker a user always checks a financial web page the current context with respect to the financial web page can be set to active when the user receives a call from the stock broker but may otherwise be set to inactive.

User preferences may be considered in determining a current context. A user preference may be a setting provided by a user during a setup procedure. A user preference may be input by a user to set situations criteria thresholds or the like where the user would prefer that a content item be set to an active state. For example rather than allow the mobile to determine a user tendency to set a financial web page to active when the broker calls a user can input a preference that the financial web page be set to an active current context when the stock broker calls.

Current contexts can also be determined based upon the battery level of a battery such as battery of a mobile terminal. In some embodiments if the battery level is determined to be lower than a predefined threshold then one or more content items e.g. lower priority content items or content items that would require significant power and or processing resources to update may be set to an inactive current context. Conversely if the battery level is determined to be higher than a predefined threshold then one or more content items may be set to an active current context. Similarly if it is determined that a supplemental power source is connected to a battery or the mobile terminal one or more content items can be set to have an active current context.

The location of a mobile terminal can also be used to determine a current context. The location of a mobile terminal such as mobile terminal can be determined via a positioning sensor such as positioning sensor . The current context with respect to various content items can be set to an active or inactive in consideration of where the mobile terminal and by association where the mobile terminal s user are located. For instance one or more content items may be set to an inactive current context when a user is a work since the user may have access to a computer in order to retrieve desired content items. Location may also be considered in that the time zone in which the mobile terminal is located may impact the setting of current contexts. Further a current context may be set based on a rate of speed that is associated with a mobile terminal. For example if the position sensor indicates that a mobile terminal is moving in excess of a threshold speed e.g. 35 miles per hour one or more content items may be set to an inactive current context since a user may not need updated content while driving a car. Additionally the position sensor may indicate that the individual is walking or running via an accelerometer or the like and a current context associated with one or more content items can be set to active or inactive using this information as well. Current contexts of content items may also be set to active or inactive when the mobile terminal is stationary for a threshold period of time.

The availability of particular networks or network types may be considered in determining a current context. If a network having a particular communications rate or power consumption rate is detected the current context of one or more content items can be set to active or inactive. In this regard a threshold can be set with respect to communications rate or power consumption and based on a network s characteristics with respect to the threshold a current context may be set to active or inactive. For example if a Wi Fi network is currently available then a current context for one or more content item may be set to active. Further based on location information derived from a positioning sensor it may be determined that the mobile terminal may soon move into a desirable or undesirable network area and current contexts for content items can be set accordingly. Additionally other attributes of a network may be considered such as whether a network is a home network or whether a network is a foreign network and if the network is a foreign network whether additional charges may be associated with interacting with the foreign network.

Further wireless or wired connectivity controlled by the mobile terminal may be considered in determining a current context. In this regard the status of various transmitters and receivers on a mobile terminal may affect or be considered in determining a current context. For example if a power conservation application or other application chooses to deactivate the wireless LAN radio but leave the cellular radio active these characteristics of the mobile terminal may be considered in determining a current context of a content item.

The time of day may also be considered when determining current contexts. For example at 2 00 am in the morning it may be likely that a user is sleeping and as such it may be unnecessary to expend resources such as power and processing to update content at that time. Accordingly one or more current contexts for various content items may be set to active or inactive based on the current time.

Scheduled events can also be considered in determining a current context. Scheduled events can include events stored in a calendar program or an alarm clock event. Calendar events such as for example a vacation event or a meeting event stored in a calendar program can be used to determine if a current context for one or more content items should be set to active or inactive. Additionally an alarm clock event where an alarm clock program is set to alarm at a particular time can be considered when setting a current context. An exemplary alarm clock event on a display of a mobile terminal is depicted in . With respect to scheduled events a current context may be activated or deactivated in advance of the scheduled event and the length of time prior to the scheduled event may be set to define when the current context may change. Alternatively a current context change may be anticipated based on the scheduled event. In anticipation of the scheduled event a context change can be effectuated at some time prior the scheduled event. For example if an alarm clock feature is set to alarm at 7 00 am the current context of one or more content items may be set to active at 6 55 am i.e. the length of time prior to the alarm is set to 5 minutes and current contexts associated with various content items may be updated at 6 55 am. Further the length of time prior to the scheduled event may be selected such that sufficient time may be available to update content items having current contexts that may be affected by the scheduled event but still relatively close to the occurrence of the event to in order for the content items to be relatively current.

Current user interactions with the mobile terminal may also be considered when determining a current context. For example if a user is depressing keys on a keypad such as keypad or otherwise interacting with the mobile terminal the actions of the user can be considered in determining a current context. In this regard for example the fact that a user is depressing keys may be indicative that the user may also soon check a content item and as such one or more content items may be set to an active current context. Additionally if a user has not interacted with a mobile terminal for some threshold duration of time the current context may be set with regard to this duration.

The current profile of a mobile device may also be considered in determining a current context of a content item. A current profile of a mobile terminal can be a setting or mode that the mobile terminal is placed into when the user is in various environments or situations. Current profiles can include for example silent loud vibrate meeting sleep home etc. In this regard a current context may be modified when a user places the mobile terminal into a particular profile. In some embodiments a user may schedule a profile change. For example a user may schedule a mobile terminal to change profiles from silent to normal at 6 30 a.m. In this regard the current context of a content item may be considered with respect to the scheduled profile change and or the current profile of the mobile device.

As indicated above the criteria described herein are merely exemplary criteria that may be considered when determining current contexts. Various additional or different criteria may be used to determine current contexts or other types of rules or algorithms can be employed to determine current contexts.

At an occurrence of a triggering event can be identified. A triggering event can be identified by content updater controller of mobile terminal or other means. A triggering event can be an event that can cause content updater to check the current context of a content item to determine if an update to the content item should be initiated. A triggering event can be for example a timer that elapses at regular time intervals for example every 15 minutes. In this regard when the timer elapses content updater can check the current context of content items to determine if the content items should be updated. Further the duration of the timer may be dynamic with respect to various criteria such as battery level connection to a supplemental power source available networks duration since the user last interacted with the mobile terminal anyone or more of the various criteria described above etc. For example if it has been determined that a mobile terminal is connected to a supplemental power source the timer intervals may be shortened to a lesser duration such as 7 minutes since the mobile terminal does not need to rely solely on a battery for power. Further different timers may be associated with different content items. For example a content item that is an email account may be on a 15 minute timer while a content item that is an RSS feed may be on a 1 hour timer.

A change in a current context from inactive to active may also be a triggering event for one or more content items. As such changes in a current context of one or more content items from inactive to active may be defined as and separated into triggering and non triggering events. A triggering change of a current context from inactive to active can cause an immediate initiation of an update of the content item since the content item s current context has been set to active and a triggering event i.e. the change in context has occurred. On the other hand a non triggering change of a current context to active can require the identification of a different triggering event prior to initiating an update of a content item. In this regard a timer elapsing or another triggering event must occur prior to initiating a content item update since the change in context alone is insufficient.

At the content item can be updated. A content item may be updated in response to a triggering event if the content item has a predefined current context. The operation at can be performed by content updater controller or other means. In this regard when a triggering event occurs the current context of one or more content items can be ascertained. If a content item that is subject to the triggering event has an active current context then an update of the content item can be initiated. In some embodiments a request to perform an update with respect to a content item can be generated and transferred to various entities to perform the update such as for example a preview module as described below. Further if a content item that is subject to the triggering event is in an inactive current context then no update with respect to that content item need be undertaken. If a content item has been updated an indication that the update has occurred can be provided such as a modified icon or an audible tone. Further the updated content item can include a time stamp indicating when the content item was last updated.

Content items may be updated in various ways. Email accounts may interact with an email server web feeds may interact with a web server on the internet etc. in order to download the latest information. In some embodiments the content item can be updated by retrieving data from an associated source via a network such as the network of and storing the retrieved data in memory devices such as volatile memory or non volatile memory of mobile terminal . Further updating a content item may also involve the utilization of another application or interface such as an RSS feed application a plug in a widget or the like. In this regard the retrieved data can be retrieved via the interface and stored directly on the mobile terminal and no formatting or other conditioning of the data need occur. However in some embodiments updates to content items may include conditioning data before storing the data on a mobile terminal. Data may be conditioned in various manners and the conditioning may be performed by content updater controller or other means. Data used in updating a content item may also be conditioned by a network entity such as computing system or BS prior to receipt by a mobile terminal.

In this regard for example a content item such as an email account may be updated by conditioning the data associated with the email account such that only the headers of received emails are received by the mobile terminal during an update. If a user desires to read the email the body of the email or a portion of the body of the email may be retrieved at the request of a user.

Further some data used to update a content item may be conditioned such that the data can easily be viewed on a display of a mobile terminal. In this regard for example images on a web page to be updated may be removed to facilitate easier reading of text associated with the web page.

Content items may also be updated by generating previews associated with the content item. Previews may be generated by content updater controller computing system BS or other means. A preview can be an indication of data retrieved from a source associated with a content item. In some embodiments a preview can include raw image data organized as an image file and generated from data retrieved from a source of a content item. A preview may be stored on a mobile terminal as a bitmap or other image format. Metadata associated with the content item may also be included in a preview. A preview may also include associated metadata where the metadata may be links to various related content items that may be retrieved by interacting with the links.

Content retriever server can include a software application that operates to retrieve a content item from various sources and conditions the content item into a preview. Content retriever server and content retriever plug in API can reside and operate on content updater or controller of mobile terminal or computing system or BS or the communications system of .

Content retriever server can receive a request to update a content item where the request includes an indication of an interface that may be used to retrieve the content item. Upon receipt of the request content retriever server can interface with content retriever plug in API to facilitate communication with various plug ins. Content retriever plug in API can permit content retriever server to seamlessly interact with plug ins and to retrieve data through the plug ins to generate a preview. Content retriever plug in API can extend the ability of content retriever server to generate previews with respect to any type of plug in. Plug in X plug in Y and plug in Z can be any software application or interface that can connect to a network to retrieve data such as but not limited to to a browser an RSS feed a widget web feed application or the like. As such content retriever server can implement plug ins and or via content retriever plug in API to retrieve a content item without implementing a user interface that may be associated with a plug in. Plug ins and can be in communication with network where network can be any type of network such as the network of or the Internet to retrieve a content item.

Upon retrieval of a content item content retriever server can condition the data associated with the content item into a preview that may be viewed as an image on a mobile terminal and interacted with via metadata. In some embodiments content retriever server may not render the retrieved content item to a display. Instead content retriever server can store the preview in preview database . Preview database may reside on a mobile terminal such as mobile terminal and more particularly preview database may be located in a memory device such as volatile memory or non volatile memory of mobile terminal .

Preview output client can operate to retrieve a preview from preview database provide for displaying the preview and allow for interaction with the preview. Preview out client can also provide for scrolling or iteratively viewing previews with the assistance of a scrolling indicator. Preview output client can reside on controller of mobile terminal . Preview output client can provide for the rendering of a preview on a display such as display . Preview output client can also provide for interaction with the preview such as zooming of the preview and or interaction with the metadata associated with the preview. Preview output client can additionally launch applications associated with a preview. For example via the preview an application such as a browser web feed or the like may be launched that may retrieve the actual content item. Via preview output client a user may implement the retrieval of content items related to the preview. For example a preview may include metadata that can be a link embedded in the image. A user may select the link causing a content item related to the link to be retrieved by the mobile terminal. Metadata may also include any type of information associated with a preview such as information regarding links time stamps and data that can be used to launch applications.

In order to retrieve a content item related to a preview preview output client can request the related content item via preview output client API . Preview output client API may reside on controller or content updater . Via preview output client API preview output client can interact with content retriever server . A request for a related content item can be received by content retriever server from content output client . Content retriever server can then retrieve the related content item via content retriever plug in and plug ins and or . Content retriever server can then provide the related content item to preview output client directly generate a preview of the related content item and provide the preview directly via preview output client or generate a preview of the additional content and store the preview in preview database for retrieval by preview output client .

At an interface used to retrieve a content item can be determined. The interface can be a plug in or other application used to retrieve data such as plug ins or . The interface can be determined from data that may be included with a content item that indicates an interface or application that can be used to retrieve the content item. At a content item can be retrieved via the interface. In this regard a content retriever server and a content retriever plug in API can interact with the interface to retrieve the content item. At a preview of the content item can generated. A preview can be generated by a content retriever server . At the preview can be stored in a preview database. Content retriever server can store the preview in preview database . At the preview can be retrieved from the preview database. A preview output client can retrieve the preview from the preview database . At the preview can be output. Preview output client can output the preview via an output device such as display . At the preview can be utilized to link to a related content item. Preview output client can provide for interactions with the preview to link to and retrieve related content through the use of metadata associated with the preview.

According to one aspect of the present invention controller content updater computing system or BS which implement exemplary embodiments of the present invention generally operate under control of computer readable program code portions that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium to form a computer program product. The computer program product for performing the methods of exemplary embodiments of the present invention includes a computer readable storage medium and computer readable program code portions such as a series of computer instructions embodied in the computer readable storage medium.

In this regard are flowcharts of methods and program products according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention. It will be understood that each block or step of the flowcharts and combinations of blocks in the flowcharts can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus such as controller content updater computing system or BS to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block s or step s . These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block s or step s . The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block s or step s .

Accordingly blocks or steps of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block or step of the flowchart and combinations of blocks or steps in the flowchart can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the embodiments of the present invention are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

