---

title: Passive self-jammer cancellation in RFID systems
abstract: A self-jammer-cancellation circuit in an RFID system uses passive variable capacitance networks to attenuate phase-adjusted carrier signals, which are then combined with a received signal to reduce unwanted carrier signals in the received signal. The self-jammer-cancellation circuit also adjusts the passive variable capacitance networks such that the overall capacitance of each network remains constant or the overall relationship of capacitances between the networks remains constant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430683&OS=09430683&RS=09430683
owner: IMPINJ, INC.
number: 09430683
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150616
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 013 983 filed on Jun. 18 2014. The disclosures of the above application are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to inventory one or more RFID tags where inventorying involves at least singulating a tag and receiving an identifier from the singulated tag. Singulated is defined as a reader singling out one tag potentially from among multiple tags for a reader tag dialog. Identifier is defined as a number identifying the tag or the item to which the tag is attached such as a tag identifier TID electronic product code EPC etc. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near or transitional near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions.

In typical RFID systems an RFID reader transmits a modulated RF inventory signal a command receives a tag reply and transmits an RF acknowledgement signal responsive to the tag reply. A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave may respond by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag either generates the transmitted back RF wave originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a time a destination an encrypted message an electronic signature other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data it can learn about the item that hosts the tag and or about the tag itself.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna section a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Other RFID tags can be powered solely by the RF signal they receive. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to reducing the amplitude of unwanted carrier signals or self jammers in a received signal in RFID systems. A self jammer cancellation circuit uses passive variable capacitance networks to attenuate phase adjusted carrier signals which are then combined with a received signal to reduce the amplitudes of unwanted carrier signals in the received signal. The self jammer cancellation circuit also adjusts the passive variable capacitance networks such that the overall capacitance of each network remains constant or the overall relationship of capacitances between the networks remains constant.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

As used herein memory is one of ROM RAM SRAM DRAM NVM EEPROM FLASH Fuse MRAM FRAM and other similar information storage technologies as will be known to those skilled in the art. Some portions of memory may be writeable and some not. Command refers to a reader request for one or more tags to perform one or more actions and includes one or more tag instructions preceded by a command identifier or command code that identifies the command and or the tag instructions. Instruction refers to a request to a tag to perform a single explicit action e.g. write data into memory . Program refers to a request to a tag to perform a set or sequence of instructions e.g. read a value from memory and if the read value is less than a threshold then lock a memory word . Protocol refers to an industry standard for communications between a reader and a tag and vice versa such as the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz by GS1 EPCglobal Inc. Gen2 Specification versions 1.2.0 and 2.0 of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Reader and tag communicate via signals and . When communicating each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 13.56 MHz and so on.

The communication between reader and tag uses symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol can be a delimiter a calibration value and so on. Symbols can be implemented for exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. When symbols are processed by reader and tag they can be treated as values numbers and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or battery assisted tag i.e. a tag having its own power source . When tag is a passive tag it is powered from signal .

Tag is typically although not necessarily formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes a circuit which may be implemented as an IC . In some embodiments IC is implemented in complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS technology. In other embodiments IC may be implemented in other technologies such as bipolar junction transistor BJT technology metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET technology and others as will be well known to those skilled in the art. IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable IC contacts not shown in . The term electrically coupled as used herein may mean a direct electrical connection or it may mean a connection that includes one or more intervening circuit blocks elements or devices. The electrical part of the term electrically coupled as used in this document shall mean a coupling that is one or more of ohmic galvanic capacitive and or inductive. Similarly the term electrically isolated as used herein means that electrical coupling of one or more types e.g. galvanic capacitive and or inductive is not present at least to the extent possible. For example elements that are electrically isolated from each other are galvanically isolated from each other capacitively isolated from each other and or inductively isolated from each other. Of course electrically isolated components will generally have some unavoidable stray capacitive or inductive coupling between them but the intent of the isolation is to minimize this stray coupling to a negligible level when compared with an electrically coupled path.

IC is shown with a single antenna port comprising two IC contacts electrically coupled to two antenna segments and which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of ports contacts antennas and or antenna segments.

Diagram depicts top and side views of tag formed using a strap. Tag differs from tag in that it includes a substantially planar strap substrate having strap contacts and . IC is mounted on strap substrate such that the IC contacts on IC electrically couple to strap contacts and via suitable connections not shown . Strap substrate is then placed on inlay such that strap contacts and electrically couple to antenna segments and . Strap substrate may be affixed to inlay via pressing an interface layer one or more adhesives or any other suitable means.

Diagram depicts a side view of an alternative way to place strap substrate onto inlay . Instead of strap substrate s surface including strap contacts facing the surface of inlay strap substrate is placed with its strap contacts facing away from the surface of inlay . Strap contacts can then be either capacitively coupled to antenna segments through strap substrate or conductively coupled using a through via which may be formed by crimping strap contacts to antenna segments . In some embodiments the positions of strap substrate and inlay may be reversed with strap substrate mounted beneath inlay and strap contacts electrically coupled to antenna segments through inlay . Of course in yet other embodiments strap contacts may electrically couple to antenna segments through both inlay and strap substrate .

In operation the antenna receives a signal and communicates it to IC which both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. If IC uses backscatter modulation then it responds by modulating the antenna s reflectance which generates response signal from signal transmitted by the reader. Electrically coupling and uncoupling the IC contacts of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can varying the admittance of a shunt connected circuit element which is coupled to the IC contacts. Varying the impedance of a series connected circuit element is another means of modulating the antenna s reflectance.

In the embodiments of antenna segments and are separate from IC . In other embodiments the antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC . Tag antennas according to embodiments may be designed in any form and are not limited to dipoles. For example the tag antenna may be a patch a slot a loop a coil a horn a spiral a monopole microstrip stripline or any other suitable antenna.

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits signal which was first described in . At the same time according to block tag receives signal and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no signal to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW signal which can be thought of as a carrier that typically encodes no information. This CW signal serves both to transfer energy to tag for its own internal power needs and also as a carrier that tag can modulate with its backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter signal . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter signal and processes it.

In some embodiments one or more of the blocks or components of reader system may be implemented as integrated circuits. For example local block one or more of the components of local block and or one or more of the remote component may be implemented as integrated circuits using CMOS technology BJT technology MESFET technology and or any other suitable implementation technology.

Local block is responsible for communicating with the tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes backscattered waves received from the tags via antenna driver block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna driver block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Local processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by local processor . In some cases local processor may implement an encryption or authentication function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Local memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art including by way of example and not of limitation any of the memory types described above as well as any combination thereof. Local memory can be implemented separately from local processor or in an IC with local processor with or without other components. Local memory if provided can store programs for local processor to run if needed.

In some embodiments local memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs and other data. Local memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to EPCs instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna secret keys key pairs and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna driver block . Other components such as local memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a local communication link such as a USB PCI and so on. Local block may include a local network connection for communicating with communications network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via communications network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Remote processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor may also implement an authentication function similar to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Remote memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Remote memory may include a local database and a different database of a standards organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with commands tag profiles keys or the like similar to local memory .

Of the above described elements it may be useful to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Operational processing block includes those components that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of communications network that links remote network connection with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable etc. In addition operational processing block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna driver and cause antenna driver to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Operational processing block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that operational processing block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly operational processing block is location independent in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Operational processing block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

RFID reader system operates by operational processing block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna driver block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna driver block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by operational processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. Such a system may be subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

An RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via the air interface . Air interface is really a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen2 Specification also properly characterize that boundary as an interface.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges waveforms with RF front end module such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges bits with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module . In one embodiment media access control layer module exchanges packets of bits with physical driver module . Media access control layer module can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module . This module can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system . In some embodiments the one or more processors may perform operations associated with retrieving data that may include a tag public key an electronic signature a tag identifier an item identifier and or a signing authority public key. In some embodiments the one or more processors may verify an electronic signature create a tag challenge and or verify a tag response.

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for receiving RFID waveforms and in the other direction for transmitting RFID waveforms. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

As mentioned previously embodiments are directed to self jammer cancellation with passive components. Embodiments additionally include programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program may be implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor but may be implemented in other processing elements such as FPGAs DSPs or other devices as described above.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

Embodiments furthermore include storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions data keys signatures and other data of a program made according to the embodiments. A storage medium according to the embodiments is a computer readable medium such as a memory and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory it can be implemented in any of the ways and using any of the technologies described above.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet.

Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

RF analog front end RFE may include an antenna coupled to transmit TX stage and receive RX stage . TX stage includes at least power amplifier PA and in some embodiments may also include one or more additional components from other RF analog front end components . RX stage may include self jammer cancellation SJC module low noise amplifier LNA module receive mixer module and or one or more additional components from components . Components in turn may be coupled to signal processing block interface which may be coupled to a signal processing block such as signal processing module . In some implementations PA may be included in an integrated circuit that also may include RX stage and or other components. In other implementations all or part of PA may be external to an integrated circuit that contains RX stage .

Antenna may be coupled to TX stage and RX stage via directional coupler which may act to isolate TX stage from RX stage . Directional coupler may be an RF device configured to conduct RF power between port and port and to couple reduced power from port to port and from port to port . Port is isolated from port and port is isolated from port . In many implementations directional coupler may be external to an integrated circuit that also may include RX stage and or other components.

In RF analog front end directional coupler may couple the output of PA to antenna connected via ports and while isolating the output of PA from input signal RX IN of RX stage connected via port which is isolated from port . In addition directional coupler may couple signals received from antenna to input signal RX IN of RX stage coupled from port to port .

As depicted in a reader may transmit a continuous wave CW signal to one or more tags during tag to reader communications. The CW signal may provide a responding tag with operating power and may serve as a carrier signal for the tag to modulate with response data and backscatter to the reader. In situations where a single antenna is used for transmit and receive functionalities as is the case for RF analog front end some of the transmitted CW signal may be reflected from the antenna back through directional coupler to input signal RX IN of RX stage . As a result RX stage may receive an input signal RX IN formed from a combination of this reflected CW signal referred to as a self jammer or an unwanted carrier signal UCS and one or more backscattered tag responses referred to as signals of interest or SOI . In some situations the UCS may be significantly stronger in other words have larger signal amplitude than the SOI and the amplitude of input signal RX IN may be dominated by the UCS amplitude. The UCS amplitude in turn limits the maximum gain that can be used by LNA for amplifying RX IN without causing significant signal compression thereby limiting the amplification of the SOI in RX IN and degrading receiver signal to noise ratio SNR and sensitivity compared to a UCS free input signal. In some situations the UCS may also introduce amplitude modulated AM noise from the transmit path or TX stage .

In some embodiments the effects of the UCS may be at least partially mitigated by attenuating the UCS amplitude using self jammer cancellation SJC . SJC may be performed by creating a replica of the UCS having substantially equal amplitude as the UCS and opposite in phase to the UCS and summing the replica with the input signal RX IN . Since the replica and the UCS have substantially the same amplitude but opposite phase they cancel each other resulting in a signal that is substantially just the SOI or at least a signal in which the amplitude ratio between the UCS and the SOI is substantially reduced compared to the original RX IN .

In some embodiments SJC module may perform SJC using a received input signal RX IN and a transmitted signal TX SIG . SJC module may receive RX IN from antenna via directional coupler port coupled from port and may receive TX SIG from PA via directional coupler port coupled from port . In some embodiments SJC module may also use a mixer signal MIX OUT received from mixer for self jammer cancellation. The signal output from SJC module with reduced or eliminated UCS amplitude may then be passed to LNA for amplification then passed on for subsequent processing at mixer other RF analog front end components and then through signal processing block interface .

In some situations SJC module may be implemented using active buffers. is a diagram of a self jammer cancellation SJC circuit with active buffers. SJC circuit similar to SJC module may receive a carrier signal similar to TX SIG representing UCS or a self jammer and a received signal similar to RX IN that includes unwanted carrier signals and one or more signals of interest SOIs or backscattered tag responses and output an SJC output signal . SJC circuit may include a multiple phase generator multiple active buffers multiple variable SJC capacitances and a single ended signal combiner . In some embodiments SJC circuit may include a control circuit although in other embodiments control circuit may be external to SJC circuit . Multiple phase generator may be configured to generate a number of different phase adjusted reference carrier PARC signals from carrier signal where each PARC signal is offset from i.e. leads or lags carrier signal by a different phase. The phase offset between the different PARC signals may be more important than the phase offset to carrier signal . For example PARC signal may be offset from carrier signal by a phase that is used as a reference phase of 0 for the different PARC signals PARC signal may be offset from this reference phase by 90 PARC signal may be offset from the reference phase by 180 and PARC signal may be offset from the reference phase by 270 .

In some cases multiple phase generator may require uniform load impedances on each of its outputs that is each of its outputs should see the same load impedance value to assure that the PARC signals have equally spaced phase offsets. Accordingly the outputs of multiple phase generator may be coupled to active buffers where each of the PARC signals are coupled into a respective active buffer in the active buffers . Active buffers are configured to present uniform load impedances to the outputs of multiple phase generator . In addition active buffers may also present relatively high impedances to the outputs of multiple phase generator which may reduce loss in SJC circuit and increase the amount i.e. amplitude of the UCS that can be cancelled in SJC circuit .

The PARC signals output from active buffers may then be coupled into variable SJC capacitances where each distinct PARC signal is coupled into a different variable SJC capacitance. Variable SJC capacitances may be configured to attenuate i.e. reduce the amplitude of the PARC signals in response to control signals from control circuit in order to cancel UCS in received signal . The attenuated PARC signals output from variable SJC capacitances may then be coupled into signal combiner . Signal combiner may then combine the attenuated PARC signals with received signal to cancel UCS present in received signal and generate SJC output signal which ideally only contains SOI but probably contains a reduced amount of UCS compared to received signal . SJC output signal may then be sent to subsequent processing stages e.g. LNA . In some embodiments control circuit may determine the quantity of residual UCS present in SJC output signal to evaluate whether variable SJC capacitances should be further adjusted and how they should be adjusted in order to decrease the amount of UCS in output signal .

As described above active buffers provide uniform and high load impedances allowing multiple phase generator to provide equally spaced output signals for SJC and increasing the amount of the UCS that can be cancelled. However active buffers consume significant power during operation which may be undesirable for low power SJC applications.

In some embodiments power consumption of an SJC circuit may be reduced by replacing active buffers with passive components in an RF signal path. Passive in the context of this disclosure is defined as not providing current or voltage gain in an RF signal path but a passive element may consume some power. For example passive components and devices may contain transistors and or other active elements i.e. devices that require power to function . These active elements may be used as signal switches and or to perform digital logic operations. is a diagram of a passive SJC circuit with variable load compensation capacitances according to embodiments. SJC circuit shares similarities with SJC circuit with similarly numbered elements behaving similarly. However instead of including active buffers SJC circuit includes multiple variable load compensation capacitances configured to shunt or redirect a portion of a received signal. For example each of the variable load compensation capacitances may have an input coupled to an output of multiple phase generator and an output coupled to a reference potential and may be configured to shunt a portion of a signal received from multiple phase generator to reference potential .

In this disclosure a reference potential is defined as a particular DC or RF voltage amplitude common to two or more signals and a reference node is defined as a circuit node or connection point at which a reference potential exists. A reference potential or reference node may be a ground an RF ground or a virtual ground. A ground may be defined as either a reference potential or a reference node for measuring single ended voltages. The voltage of single ended signals including RF signals is defined and measured with respect to ground whereas the voltage of differential signals is defined and measured between the two sides and of the differential signal. An RF ground may be defined as either a reference potential or a reference node for measuring single ended RF signals. An RF ground may have a non zero DC voltage but may have a low RF impedance to ground and a nearly zero RF voltage. A virtual ground may be defined as either a reference potential or a reference node having a nearly zero signal voltage due to circuit behavior such as due to a control circuit or due to active feedback. A particular reference node may be a virtual ground at a single signal frequency or over a range of signal frequencies. In some embodiments circuits in this disclosure described as being coupled to a reference potential may instead or also be coupled to a reference node and may also be coupled to two or more separate different reference nodes.

The inputs of each of the load compensation capacitances may also be coupled to the input of a respective variable SJC capacitance in the variable SJC capacitances thereby forming a number of variable load compensation SJC capacitance networks . A variable capacitance network in this disclosure may be defined as one or more variable capacitances coupled between a multiple phase generator e.g. multiple phase generator a signal combiner e.g. signal combiner and optionally one or more other devices components or circuit nodes.

Each of the variable load compensation SJC capacitance networks may be coupled to a respective output of multiple phase generator and a respective input of signal combiner as depicted in . Control circuit may be configured to adjust the overall impedance of each of the variable load compensation SJC capacitance networks by adjusting or providing control signals to adjust both the variable SJC capacitances for self jammer cancellation as described above and the variable load compensation capacitances .

As described above a multiple phase generator such as multiple phase generator may require uniform load impedances on each of its outputs to assure equally spaced phase shifted output signals. In some embodiments control circuit in the course of adjusting variable SJC capacitances for self jammer cancellation may also adjust variable load compensation capacitances such that the impedances of each of the variable load compensation SJC capacitance networks as presented to multiple phase generator are substantially uniform. In other words when control circuit adjusts a variable SJC capacitance in a particular variable load compensation SJC capacitance network for self jammer cancellation control circuit may also adjust the variable load compensation capacitance in the network so as to counteract any impedance change of the network.

For example the phase and amplitude of the UCS in received signal may be such that to reduce the UCS amplitude control circuit must increase the variable SJC capacitance in network and decrease the variable SJC capacitance in network . To maintain uniform load impedances for multiple phase generator control circuit may then decrease the variable load compensation capacitance in network and increase the variable load compensation capacitance in network . When the UCS in SJC output signal is canceled the PARC signal inputs to the signal combiner may act as present as virtual grounds at the UCS frequency. Accordingly when the UCS is cancelled an SJC capacitance with a particular value and connected to a signal combiner input acting as a virtual ground may present the same load impedance as a load compensation capacitance having the same value and connected to ground an RF ground or a virtual ground.

Combined variable capacitances are coupled to multiple phase generator differential signal combiner and reference potential . Capacitances receive PARC signals and output attenuated PARC signals to either side or of the differential PARC signal inputs of differential signal combiner based on control signals from control circuit . In some embodiments each of the capacitances may include a capacitor bank e.g. capacitor bank and may provide a variable SJC capacitance by switching one of more capacitors in the capacitor bank to couple between multiple phase generator and differential signal combiner and by switching one or more other capacitors in the capacitor bank to couple between multiple phase generator and reference potential .

SJC circuit may provide differential SJC output signal A by coupling PARC signals and with relative phase offsets of 0 90 180 and 270 respectively to a first subset of the combined capacitances . The first subset may then output attenuated PARC signals to either side or of the differential PARC signal inputs of differential signal combiner which combines the attenuated PARC signals with differential received signal to generate differential SJC output signal A . SJC circuit may also provide differential SJC output signal B by coupling PARC signals to a second subset of the combined capacitances . The combined capacitances in the second subset may then output attenuated PARC signals to either side or of the differential PARC signal inputs of differential signal combiner which combines the attenuated PARC signals from the second subset with differential received signal to generate differential SJC output signal B .

Dual output variable capacitance which may be used as a dual output variable SJC capacitance is depicted as including at least capacitors and . Each of the capacitors has one end coupled to variable capacitance input and another end coupled to a pair of switches. For example capacitor is coupled to switches and and capacitor is coupled to switches and . Switches depicted as CMOS transistors may have their drain terminals coupled to their associated capacitors and their source terminals coupled to variable capacitance output or vice versa. Variable capacitance output is a differential output with two distinct output lines and both capacitors and are coupled to one output line via switches and and are coupled to the other output line via switches and . In some embodiments switches are configured to couple capacitors and to only one output line at a given time although in some embodiments switches may be configured to couple some capacitors to one output line and other capacitors to the other output line at a given time.

Switches in turn may receive control signals from digital control input . Specifically the gate terminals of switches may be coupled to one or more logic elements which in turn may be coupled to a magnitude input and a sign input of digital control input . In some embodiments magnitude input controls the particular capacitors that are to be coupled to output and sign input controls the particular output line capacitors are to be coupled to. Logic elements are depicted as digital AND gates with inverters or NOT gates on one terminal of elements and but in other embodiments may be other types of logic elements or may even be analog depending how capacitors and are to be coupled to output .

While variable capacitances and only depict two capacitors and associated switches in other embodiments variable capacitances and may include more or fewer capacitors and their associated switches and logic elements. Similarly while the switches in variable capacitances and are depicted as CMOS e.g. PMOS or NMOS transistors above in other embodiments switches may be implemented using BJTs MESFETs or any other suitable switching technology. Of course other implementations of variable capacitances may be used. In other embodiments other impedance elements such as transmission lines inductors may be used for SJC and or load compensation.

At step a signal combiner may form an output signal by combining attenuated PARC signals from the variable capacitance networks with an input signal containing unwanted carrier signals and one or more signals of interest in order to remove the unwanted carrier signals from the input signal. At step the SJC circuit or control circuit may evaluate the output signal to determine the residual unwanted carrier signals still in the output signal and further adjust the variable capacitances to increase the removal of unwanted carrier signals in the output signal.

The operations described in process are for illustrative purposes only. These operations may be implemented using additional or fewer operations and in different orders using the principles described herein.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the RFID embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented employing integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

