---

title: Graphical display with integrated recent period zoom and historical period context data
abstract: A system and method are provided for displaying a data series. In one embodiment, a graphical interface is provided including at least one axis that is divided into a plurality of axis regions. Preferably, each axis region uses a different linear scale, and the plurality of axis regions forms a continuous non-linear scale. The graphical interface also displays the data series in relation to the plurality of axis regions, and the data series is plotted in relation to each axis region based on a scale resolution corresponding to each respective axis region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542709&OS=09542709&RS=09542709
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 09542709
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151015
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 960 778 filed Aug. 6 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 189 874 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 761 145 filed Feb. 6 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 537 161 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 587 865 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 395 625 filed Aug. 16 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 237 440 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 269 774 filed Sep. 20 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 106 770 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 044 959 filed May 12 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 604 979 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 965 292 filed Oct. 23 2009 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 073 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 629 975 filed Feb. 6 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 415 977 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 348 981 filed May 2 2006 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 814 986 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 218 325 filed Mar. 31 2004 entitled Graphical Display with Integrated Recent Period Zoom and Historical Period Context Data the contents of all of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to a graphical display interface for displaying data series. More specifically the present invention is directed to displaying time series data in an electronic trading environment.

An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers meet to trade. Some exchanges referred to as open outcry exchanges operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges referred to as electronic exchanges operate by an electronic or telecommunications network instead of a trading floor to facilitate trading in an efficient versatile and functional manner. Electronic exchanges have made it possible for an increasing number of people to actively participate in a market at any given time. The increase in the number of potential market participants has advantageously led to among other things a more competitive market and greater liquidity.

With respect to electronic exchanges buyers and sellers may log onto an electronic exchange trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected buyers and sellers may typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of traded events goods and or financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable object such as a class of tradeable objects.

Every day there are thousands of traders buying and selling for many different reasons such as for example fear of loss hope of gain hedging broker recommendations and many others. To profit in electronic markets market participants must be able to assimilate large amounts of data in order to recognize market trends and to view current market conditions. However trying to figure out why market participants are buying or selling can be very difficult. Chart patterns may put buying and selling activities into perspective by providing a concise picture of the two activities as a tool to analyze markets. Among many different market data types traders may wish to view one or more price charts to forecast future price movements for example. A price chart displays a sequence of prices plotted over a specific timeframe as well as other information that can be useful in analyzing market trends and market patterns including technical indicators such as for example moving averages.

Typically a timeframe used for forming a price chart depends on the level of data compression and determines the level of detail of the displayed data. The timeframe of a price chart may be any timeframe including for example intra day daily weekly monthly quarterly or annual. An intra day chart may display open close high and low prices for an identified interval such as one or more minutes or seconds during a trading day. Then the daily chart may display a single set of price data for each day of trading depicted in the chart. The weekly chart is made up of daily data that has been compressed to show each week as a single point and so forth.

Traders usually concentrate on charts made up of daily and intra day data series to forecast short term price movements whereas weekly and monthly charts are typically used to spot long term trends. While some traders may wish to view either a long term chart or a short term chart many traders often want to view the combination of the two chart types to see the full picture of the market. Therefore a preferable approach would be to show the two chart types on a single integrated graph. However due to the screen size limitations the prior art systems do not offer satisfactory solutions for viewing the short term chart details and the long term chart details on a single axis.

A typical display has the screen size on the order of 1024 768 pixels which means that using the extreme minimum of one pixel per each value to be displayed on the screen only 1024 values could be displayed on a single linear chart. For example if typical one minute bars with high low open and close were used the maximum number of values that could be shown would be 256 or a four and a quarter hour time period using a minimal four pixels per bar with three pixels used for each bar and one pixel used for spacing between the bars . Then if five minute bars were displayed the maximum number of bars would be still while the time period range would increase to twenty one and a quarter hours of trading time.

Therefore based on the examples given above the longer the time range displayed the less detail is available about the fine grained movements of the market. is a block diagram illustrating a time scale diagram that is often used to display time data series. The time scale diagram is a linear time scale chart that is wide enough to see the entire year of data. However as shown in it is almost impossible to see anything as small as a day and totally impossible to see anything on the order of an hour a minute or a second since there is not enough room to show such level of detail. Thus the linear time scale chart does not meet the objectives of showing both historical context and recent time fine grained detail.

Another approach to displaying time series data is to use a logarithmic time scale. One possible implementation of a logarithmic time scale graph is to mark the leftmost mark on the scale 1 second while the next evenly spaced mark to the right would be 10 seconds assuming that a base 10 logarithmic scale is used the next evenly spaced mark would be 100 seconds 1 minute 40 seconds the next would be 1000 seconds 16 minutes 40 seconds the next would be 10 000 seconds two hours forty six minutes forty seconds and so on. This approach appears to allow for displaying a wide range of time data series. is a block diagram illustrating a base 10 logarithmic scale . The example graphical scale displays the natural time periods rather than the evenly spaced marks where the leftmost mark on the scale represents a time of one second the next mark represents one minute the next mark represents one hour and so on.

However the logarithmic time scale approach suffers from several problems. First the natural evenly spaced divisions are not natural units that make sense to a user like seconds minutes five minutes hours days weeks months quarters etc. but are mathematical powers of the smallest logarithmic base unit. This problem can be addressed by using more natural division marks such as the one shown in relation to although the illustrated marks are not regularly spaced. The second problem with the logarithmic time scale is that the meaning of bar data is not obvious for viewing when displayed in relation to the logarithmic scale because each bar appearing at a different place on the time scale has a different rollup period and therefore causes reading of the displayed data to be counter intuitive.

Thus it would beneficial to provide a graphical display of data series that will not only provide up to date details and historical context data but also one that will be intuitive for a trader to use.

According to one example embodiment a graphical interface is provided for displaying at least one data series. The data series can be associated with one or more variables having domains that extend over several orders of magnitude. An example of the data series could be one or more time series data however different data series could also be displayed in relation to the graphical interface of the example embodiments. Preferably the graphical interface includes at least one axis and the axis is divided into a plurality of axis regions that use different linear scales while the combination of the regions forms a continuous non linear scale axis. The graphical interface also includes at least one chart that is displayed in relation to the plurality of axis regions. The chart presents the data series that is plotted in each axis region based on a scale resolution corresponding to each respective axis region.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Other systems methods and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present embodiments may be operated in an entirely software embodiment in an entirely hardware embodiment or in a combination thereof. However for sake of illustration the preferred embodiments are described in a software based embodiment which is executed on a computer device. As such the preferred embodiments take the form of a computer program product that is stored on a computer readable storage medium and is executed by a suitable instruction system in the computer device. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices for example.

The example embodiments that will be used hereinafter to illustrate different configurations and functionalities of the integrated chart will be described in relation to one or more time series of market data. However it should be understood that the embodiments described in relation to subsequent figures are not limited to displaying time series data or market related data and the embodiments could be applied to different data series and or different data types.

In an electronic trading environment when a trader selects a tradeable object the trader may access market data related to the selected tradeable object s . Referring to an example communication that might occur between an electronic exchange and a client terminal in accordance with the preferred embodiments is shown. During a trading session market data in the form of messages may be relayed from a host exchange over communication links and to a client terminal generally indicated as . As illustrated in intermediate devices such as gateway s may be used to facilitate communications between the client terminal and the host exchange . It should be understood that while illustrates the client terminal communicating with a single host exchange in an alternative embodiment the client terminal could establish trading sessions to more than one host exchange.

The market data contains information that characterizes the tradeable object s order book including among other parameters order related parameters and the inside market which represents the lowest sell price also referred to as the best or lowest ask price and the highest buy price also referred to as the best or highest bid price . In some electronic markets market data may also include market depth which generally refers to quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain buy price levels and quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain sell price levels.

In addition to providing the tradeable object s order book information electronic exchanges can offer different types of market information such as total traded quantity for each price level an opening price the price of the last trade last traded quantity the closing price or order fill information. It should be understood that an electronic exchange might include more or fewer items depending on the type of tradeable object or the type of exchange. Also it should be understood that the messages provided in the market data may vary in size depending on the content carried by them and the software at the receiving end may be programmed to understand the messages and to act out certain operations.

Typically a trader may view the information provided from an exchange via one or more specialized trading screens created by software running on the client terminal . In addition to viewing market information using trading screens a trader may view data displayed in relation to charts such as an integrated chart that will be described in greater detail below. Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to take actions such as send orders to an exchange cancel orders at the exchange or change order parameters for example. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client terminal . Upon receiving one or more commands or signals from the trader the client terminal may generate messages that reflect the actions taken generally shown at . It should be understood that different types of messages or order types can be submitted to the host exchange all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated user action messages may be sent from the client terminal to the host exchange over communication links and .

Preferably the integrated chart application has access to market information from one or more host exchanges through an interface such as an application programming interface API . When the integrated chart application receives information from the host exchange it may arrange and display the received information on an integrated chart that a trader may view on the visual output display device . The display devices could be a CRT based video display an LCD based display a gas plasma panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or a different display type. Also the display device could be a combination of separate display devices that can together create a composition in the user s visual field of each portion of the integrated chart such as a head mounted monocular see through display that holds the integrated chart used together with another display that holds another interface such as a trading interface. The integrated chart application may also receive input signals from traders via input device . Example input devices may include a mouse keyboard game pad joystick or trackball. The input signals received from a user may include user requests to customize the view of the integrated chart or an input defining one or more data types to be displayed in relation to the integrated chart. However it should be understood that different input types are possible as well.

The operating system may be used to manage hardware and software resources of the client terminal . General functions of the operating system may include processor management memory management device management storage management application interface and user interface. Any type of the operating system may be used to implement the present embodiments and examples of common operating systems include the Microsoft WINDOWS family of operating systems the UNIX family of operating systems or the MACINTOSH operating systems. However those ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize that the added complexity of an operating system may not be necessary to perform the functions herein.

As mentioned in earlier paragraphs the examples shown below will be described in reference to time series of market data received from electronic exchanges or more specifically traded price data associated with a tradeable object. However it should be understood that the invention could be applied to any data series not just those where time is the primary dimension or where data is market related data. In general the integrated charts could be used to display any variables that have domains extending over several orders of magnitude.

The time axis shows the combination of the most recent and historical price data corresponding to the last 5 days 8 hours and 8 minutes of prices with half of the space used to show data from the last 38 minutes and half of that used to show data from the last 3 minutes.

According to one preferred embodiment the time axis is divided into a plurality of axis regions that form a continuous time axis. Each axis region uses a linear time scale and the time scale is different within the neighboring regions. Referring to for example the axis region corresponds to and displays data associated with the most current 30 seconds of trading while the axis region to the left of the region corresponds to 90 seconds before the time period corresponding to the region . Similarly the axis region corresponds to 6 minutes before the time period of the axis region . Other regions display data based on the same principle so that the axis regions correspond to 30 minutes 90 minutes 6 hours 2 days and 3 days before the time period of each preceding axis region. Preferably the ending point of one axis region and the start of the next region are related so that a continuous time axis is created and all data are displayed.

In the embodiments illustrated in each time axis region is divided into sub intervals and the sub intervals in a single region correspond to the same roll up time interval. For example each sub interval in the axis region corresponds to one second while the sub intervals of the axis region correspond to 15 minutes. Also in the embodiment illustrated in while the sub intervals of two neighboring regions correspond to different time periods the sub intervals are evenly spaced throughout the entire time axis. However it should be understood that the sub interval spacing of the two neighboring regions could be different based on user preferences.

In the preferred embodiment a user can customize a number of regions as well as the time scales used in relation to each region on the time axis. For example the chart interface could display sliders to allow a user to segment the time axis into a desired number of axis regions or to increase decrease a default number of regions preset for the chart interface. When the axis regions are created a user could use the sliders corresponding to each region such as sliders and in to balance the width of each region based on user preferences. It should be understood that many more controls or commands could be used to allow settings of the sliders to be saved or restored.

In addition to resizing the axis regions the window corresponding to the chart interface could be capable of resizing as well. The function of resizing the main window may have different user controllable results and the results may range from scaling the current data displayed in relation to each axis region extending shrinking the size of the axis region bordering the edge being resized to extending shrinking the size of all axis regions proportionately. In the embodiment allowing a user to resize the main window the sliders corresponding to the axis regions preferably have a visually represented lockdown option to guarantee that the amount of data covered by the associated regions stays the same during resizing operations.

Alternatively or in addition to making the regions user customizable the integrated chart application could automatically control the size and scale of each region based on metrics about the volume range or how fast the price or any other value being plotted has moved within a time interval. In such an embodiment the chart interface can intelligently and automatically give a user enough details about time periods where details are necessary or interesting and may use larger scales for axis regions where such detail is unnecessary because nothing interesting happened. It should be understood that the integrated chart application could include a number of default settings or user configurable settings that could be used to control the layout of the display. The user configurable settings could also enable a trader to define trigger points that could be used by the integrated chart application to make decisions about automatic scale changes.

The present invention is not limited to the illustrated layout. In the example shown in relation to the display interface the time or the value scale corresponding to the regions increases in one direction across the chart however different embodiments are possible as well. For example a central region could be used to display fine grained level of detail and a number of regions with progressively less detail at larger scales could surround the central region. It should be understood that the regions could be positioned either horizontally or vertically in relation to the central region. Also the central region with the fine grained level of detail could be at a natural point in the scale of the vertical axis value such as a zero point on a scale that has both positive and negative numbers or could be positioned at a point that emphasizes recent movements such as the value at the start of the day or one hour ago. Also a region with a fine level of detail could be configured to correspond to a time period preceding during or immediately after a user configurable event such as for example when a certain number comes out when a predetermined market condition is detected before or after the opening closing time period or upon detecting any other event.

It should be understood that the method for displaying data series can be used in relation to more than one axis such as in relation to both the time axis and the vertical price axis in . In such an embodiment the smallest level of detail could be used in relation to a region corresponding to where the price currently is and the current price region could be surrounded with other regions extending both up and down and the regions can be scaled differently e.g. showing a larger price range in a smaller space. The vertical regions could also be user configurable and could have slider controls to permit a user to expand or shrink sizes of the regions in a manner that the user will find desirable.

The time series data in each region may be updated real time as new data updates are received. In the example described in reference to the data displayed in relation to the chart interface may be updated based on update messages being received from one or more exchanges. However the updates could be received from other data sources as well depending on the type s of data displayed in relation to the integrated graphical chart interface and the example embodiments are not limited to receiving market data updates.

It should be understood that many different methods could be used to update graphical representation of one or more data series displayed on the chart interface. In one embodiment as time passes each region may move the existing display one bar width and may display a bar for the newest time interval. Thus in the region that uses one minute bars a new bar may be plotted every minute as the region of the chart scrolls to the left and is clipped by the fixed width boundary edge of the region . For example plotting of the data series on a display screen may be performed using a technique commonly known in the art as double buffering which first draws an offscreen image and then transfers the prepared image to a primary display screen however different methods could also be used.

The method described above that draws a new bar and scrolls the rest of the region when the update is performed requires little computation since only the regions with the smallest time intervals are updated very often. For example in the chart interface that begins with one second bars the region corresponding to the one second intervals is updated once a second and the neighboring region using five second intervals are updated once every 5 seconds and so on. However it should be understood that different methods for updating data on the chart interface could also be used. Also because the displayed data scrolls out of or is clipped by region boundaries at different rates for each region there is preferably a small overlap in the time ranges displayed. However it should be understood that depending on the method used for creating the chart there could be no overlap in the time ranges as well.

Referring to at step the integrated chart application acquires data for all regions and assembles the acquired data based on the time granularity used in relation to each region. For example for a one hour time region that uses 15 minute bars with high low open and close values displayed in relation to each bar the integrated chart application may acquire determine and group charted values for four bars of the one hour time period.

At step the integrated chart application draws bars for each region displayed in relation to the integrated chart on a display screen. It should be understood that different drawing methods algorithms could be used to draw bars onto a display screen and the embodiments described herein are not limited to any particular method or algorithm. For example as mentioned in relation to the integrated chart application may use the double buffering drawing algorithm to first draw the bars into a private drawing context e.g. a bitmap . The integrated chart application may then transfer the created bitmaps to create a composite bitmap using the bit block transfer BITBLT function the Display Data Channel DDC or any other function or method. The composite bitmap may then be transferred to the display screen. Alternatively rather than using the double buffering function the integrated chart application could use a markup based drawing algorithm such as the Scalable Vector Graph SVG Extensible Application Markup Language XAML Web3D or any other algorithm that can be used to create the markup tags for each region using the markup s object model or the scene graph.

At step the integrated chart application updates data displayed in relation to each bar based on data updates being received from an outside source such as market data updates being received from one or more electronic exchanges. For example upon receiving a data update the integrated chart application may calculate incremental values for quantities being tracked and displayed in relation to the integrated chart. In an embodiment where the integrated chart tracks high and low values for a specified quantity the integrated chart application may determine maximum and minimum values for the most recent time period by comparing the currently used maximum minimum values detected for the time period to the new value received from the outside source. Then if any new maximum minimum values are detected the integrated chart application may update the bars accordingly.

At step the integrated chart application draws a new bar upon detecting expiration of the time sub interval corresponding to the most recent time period. For example if the most recent time period displays one minute bars when the integrated chart application detects that one minute has elapsed which can be detected using time stamp data or a local system clock a new bar may be drawn. If drawing is performed directly on a display screen the integrated chart application may first shift the bar drawn over clipping off the oldest bar and draw the newest bar next to the boundary of the one minute bar region. Alternatively if the double buffering method is used instead the integrated bar chart application may first draw a new bar into a drawing context or a bitmap. Then the application may use the BITBLT function to transfer the created bitmap region to the composite bitmap and then to the display screen. If the markup based drawing is used instead the application may insert the new data into the object model by adjusting the transform element for the region to have the effect of scrolling contents so that the new data can be drawn.

At step the integrated bar chart application calculates new bar data for longer time intervals using data from smaller time intervals and proceeds to draw the new bars as described above. For example if the one minute bar region is followed by the five minute bar region the integrated bar chart application may calculate data for the newest five minute bar using data from the oldest five one minute bars in the adjacent data region. Then the method may continue at step and the steps taken by the integrated bar chart application may be repeated.

In one example embodiment the multiple time axes can be broken into time contiguous sections that may be then combined to create the non linear scale axis described in reference to . An example set of time axis sections and are illustrated in relation to the axes in . In the embodiment using the double buffering drawing method each time axis section corresponds to a bitmap on the private drawing device context and the new data is drawn on each respective bitmap. Then the bitmaps may be transferred using the BITBLT function to create the composite bitmap such as the one illustrated at . In the composite bitmap the region on the leftmost part of the composite bitmap corresponds to the most recent time period while each adjacent region uses a progressively larger time scale. However the regions could be arranged based on any user preferences some of which were described in relation to earlier figures. The composite bitmap may then be transferred to the display screen using the BITBLT or some other function.

Also due to different time scales being used by the neighboring regions and the need to not omit any values from the display when data displayed in relation to each region are updated the regions may be coupled such that there is some time overlap in the contiguous regions. For example for a region of five minute bars adjacent to a region with one minute bars the earliest five minute bar may contain data from up to five minutes of the one minute bar region. However it should be understood that the level of the overlap may vary based on a method used for updating data displayed in relation to each region or based on some other factors and some embodiments may use no overlapping regions.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for an integrated display of historical and current data series may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

