---

title: Method, medium, and system for customizing content based on social network information
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed that use social networking profiles of users to generate personalized content of display pages. The personalized content may be generated using profile data retrieved via an application program interface of a social networking system, and may be presented on the display pages of a distinct system, such as a site that hosts an electronic catalog of items. The personalized content may include features that allow a user to indicate a like or preference for an item and that can be customized based on, e.g., the extent of the user's social network or the influence the user has over other potential users of the catalog system. Systems and methods are also disclosed that use the social networking profiles to generate personalized messages that can be posted to social network contacts of the user to provide information about items for which the contacts may be interested.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607316&OS=09607316&RS=09607316
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09607316
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150427
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 723 076 filed Dec. 20 2012 entitled METHOD MEDIUM AND SYSTEM FOR CUSTOMIZING CONTENT BASED ON SOCIAL NETWORK INFORMATION now U.S. Pat. No. 9 020 839 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 871 733 filed Aug. 30 2010 entitled METHOD MEDIUM AND SYSTEM FOR ADJUSTING A SELECTABLE ELEMENT BASED ON SOCIAL NETWORKING USAGE now U.S. Pat. No. 8 355 955 each of the foregoing is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Customers of e commerce sites such as online web sites of merchants can be presented with display pages e.g. web pages that describe products or services that are available from the e commerce site. In some cases the e commerce site may use information about the customer s shopping preferences purchase history product viewing history and so forth to personalize the content or appearance of a display page e.g. a home page detail page or search results page that is presented to the user e.g. via a web browser or other type of user interface .

It is becoming increasingly common for customers of e commerce sites to also be members of a social networking site which maintains profile information for the members of the site. Member profile information can include information about social connections between the member and other persons organizations and entities e.g. the member s social network . The member profile information may also include information about preferences of the member e.g. likes or dislikes for media e.g. movies music or video games products services activities etc. Very little integration currently exists between existing e commerce sites and social networking sites.

E commerce systems and social networking systems typically have been separate systems that have not shared customer information and user profile information. It may be advantageous if an e commerce system can use with the permission of a customer the customer s profile information from the social networking site in order to provide a more personalized experience when the customer visits the e commerce system. It may also be advantageous if the e commerce system can use with customer permission the customer s profile information to determine information about products and services that may be of interest to the customer and or others in the customer s social network. For example the e commerce system can communicate messages about such products and services to the wall or news feed of the customer and or others in the customer s social network. Personalized display page content and or messaging have the potential to increase traffic to a display page for an item or to generate additional purchases of the item from the e commerce system because the e commerce system or its customers can communicate information about items that may be of interest to their social network contacts. Also personalized display pages and messaging can provide links to detail pages for such items which can make it easy for social networking contacts to visit and purchase from the e commerce system.

Accordingly various computer implemented features are disclosed for integrating an electronic catalog system such as a system that hosts an e commerce site with a social networking system. In some embodiments systems and methods use profile data retrieved from the social networking system to automatically personalize the content or appearance of a display page or to automatically determine interactions e.g. messaging between an e commerce system and the social networking system. These features may be embodied individually or in any combination in a web site system or other type of interactive system that provides access to an electronic catalog or other repository of items. For example the disclosed features may be implemented by a shopping system so that when a customer visits the shopping system the customer is presented with display pages e.g. web pages that are personalized or customized based on for example the customer s usage of the social networking system. Additionally or alternatively the shopping system may use profile information obtained from the social networking system to determine for example the content or timing of marketing or informational messages communicated from the shopping system to users of the social networking system who may be current or potential customers of the shopping system.

As illustrated in the electronic catalog system includes one or more web servers that respond to page requests received over the internet from user computing devices e.g. personal computers portable computing devices mobile phones electronic book readers PDAs etc. of end users. The system also includes a repository of catalog content . The catalog content may include for example product images product descriptions user ratings and reviews of particular products price and availability data seller data etc. A search engine not shown enables users to search the catalog by submitting free form search strings.

The catalog system also includes a repository of customer account data for users who have created accounts with the system customers . Customer account data may include for example usernames passwords payment information shipping information item ratings and wish lists. The repository may also include various types of collected behavioral data reflective of the customer s browsing activity. The behavioral data may include item selection data for items selected by users of the catalog system. For example the item selection data may include purchase histories search histories and item detail page viewing histories. Purchase histories can include purchases or rentals of items for physical delivery or electronic download e.g. music or video downloads . As will be discussed further below the item selection data can also include likes and preferences of the customer for items authors artists directors genres etc. For example the item selection data may include information on whether the customer or those in the customer s social network has indicated a like for an item.

As shown in the electronic catalog system also includes a personalization service that generates personalized or customized content including personalized display pages for users of the system . The personalization service may also provide for customized programmatic interaction between the electronic catalog system and a social networking system . For example the personalization service may generate personalized messages for the social networking system to distribute to certain members of the social networking system. The personalization service may use social networking profile data retrieved from an external social networking system to provide the personalization or customization of display pages or messaging as described below .

The personalization service includes one or more display page customization engines for customizing or personalizing the appearance or content of a display page presented to a customer of the system . For example a display page can include a web page that is displayed by a web browser or other user interface when a customer visits the web site hosted by the electronic catalog system . Such customized or personalized display pages can include a home or login page when the customer first accesses the website detail pages for specific items in the electronic catalog search pages that allow users to search for desired items or services or recommendation pages that are generated in response to a user s request for recommendations. Display pages can also include popup pages popovers hover pages and so forth that are presented when a user views a web page. Examples of display pages are discussed with reference to . The personalization service can include one or more messaging engines for generating personalized messages for the social networking system to distribute to certain members of the social networking system . Although the embodiment of the catalog system illustrated in includes both page customization engines and messaging engines other embodiments of the system may include page customization engines but not messaging engines or may include messaging engines but not page customization engines . Further in other embodiments the system can be configured differently than shown in . For example the page customization engines and or the messaging engines may be separate components and not included in a personalization service . Many variations and alternatives are possible and no single component or group of components is essential or required to be present in every embodiment of the system .

As explained below the personalization service may be invoked in a variety of different contexts to provide personalized display pages to users of the electronic catalog system or to provide personalized messages to users of the social networking system .

The electronic catalog system may associate with each customer of the system a unique customer identifier token or key e.g. a customer ID . The customer ID is used by the system to access the customer account data from the repository . To protect the privacy of customers the customer ID does not include any information that would allow the customer to be personally identified from the customer ID.

The electronic catalog system may also include functionality and components not shown for enabling users to perform various other types of functions including but not limited to the following a purchasing items selected from the electronic catalog b creating wish lists of items selected from the catalog and searching for and viewing the wish lists of other users c conducting keyword searches for specific catalog items d browsing the catalog using a category based browse tree e creating personal profiles that are viewable by other users f posting items for sale in the electronic catalog g tagging specific catalog items and h posting customer reviews and ratings of particular catalog items.

As further depicted in the electronic catalog system also includes a social network interface that is capable of communicating over the Internet and or another data network with an external social networking system . The social networking system hosts a social networking web site that provides functionality for users to set up social networking accounts to become members and to establish contact or friend relationships with other members. Examples of such social networking systems and web sites include Facebook MySpace Mixi and LinkedIn . To establish a contact or friend relationship via such a system one member typically initiates the transmission of an invitation also sometimes referred to as a friend request or connection request to another member by interacting with the social networking system . If the receiving member accepts this invitation such as by clicking on an acceptance button or link the social networking system creates a database record or entry indicating that the two users are contacts of each other.

The social networking system may be operated independently of and by a different entity than the electronic catalog system and the two sites may operate in different Internet domains and on different hardware platforms. In other embodiments the social networking system may be an integral part of the electronic catalog system . Although a single social networking system is shown in the electronic catalog system may interact with additional social networking systems in the same manner as described herein.

The social networking system can include one or more web servers that respond to page requests from user computing devices by generating and serving display pages e.g. web pages . These web pages provide functionality for users to create private and public social networking profiles to share personal information with their contacts and others. Each such member profile which may be maintained in an appropriate data repository typically includes multiple fields or sections some of which relate to the user s interests or preferences. For example text fields may be provided for entering the following information name birthday hometown favorite activities favorite music favorite books favorite movies favorite video games favorite web sites favorite clubs favorite restaurants favorite mobile applications. These fields are merely representative of the types of profile fields that may be provided.

The member profile information may also include other content or information about such content associated with the member such as e.g. connections to other members media photos videos etc. media or product reviews fan pages groups hobbies applications or games status messages postings by members events and so forth. Content in the member profile can be connected to other content in the member s profile by establishing one or more relationship connections between them. For example if two members are in the same social network the member profile information of each of these two members can indicate their relationship connection to be friends. If a member indicates a preference for a particular item or object e.g. a movie a book a photo the item or object can be included in the member profile and the relationship connection between the member and the item may be an indication that the member likes the item. For example as will be described below a customer of the catalog system can click a like button on a detail page for an item available from the catalog system to indicate the customer s preference for the item. The catalog system can communicate this like to the social networking system which can update the customer s member profile to include information about the item and the customer s preference for the item as well as publish the customer s preference for this item on the news feeds of the customer s social networking contacts.

The foregoing are merely examples of the types of content and the types of relationship connections that can be included in the member profile information. The content and relationship connections of the member profile may be organized as a social graph in some implementations of the system for example the Facebook Social Graph . Member profile information can be stored in and retrieved from the data repository .

The social networking system can provide functionality for a member to post a comment to or indicate a preference the member shares with other members in their common social network e.g. the two users are friends on the social networking system . For example a member may post a comment or indicate a preference on a friend s wall on the social networking system. Other users of the social networking system who are friends of these members can view and comment on postings to these walls. The social networking system may provide functionality for communicating messages to members. The messages may come from the social networking system itself other members or other organizations or entities. Some social networking systems organize messages and postings into an individualized news feed that presents to each member the most recent or relevant messages and postings.

The social networking system typically associates with each member of the system a unique membership identifier token or key e.g. a member ID . To protect the privacy of members of the social networking system the member ID typically does not include any information that would allow the member to be personally identified from the member ID. The member ID is used by the system to access the member profile information and to organize and distribute appropriate content to individual members e.g. to distribute content to a member s wall or news feed . To refer to members of a social network the member profile typically uses member IDs rather than personally identifiable information .

In the example shown in the social networking system includes a service interface including an API Application Programming Interface which enables external systems to retrieve member profile information and to post information to members profiles. The electronic catalog system uses this interface to retrieve social networking profile information of particular members of the social networking system. For example the system s social network interface makes API calls to the social networking system to request the social networking data of particular members of the social networking system.

When a customer gives permission to link the customer s catalog account e.g. their account with the electronic catalog system with the customer s social networking account the social network interface can make API calls that include the customer s social network log in credentials e.g. username and password as supplied to the system by the customer. The electronic catalog system can then retrieve the customer s member profile information and member ID from the social networking system . Because the electronic catalog system knows the customer s customer ID the catalog system can make an association or mapping between the customer ID on the catalog system and the member ID on the social networking system . The catalog system can include a database that includes such mappings or associations between customer IDs and member IDs for all customer s who have given the catalog system permission to link their respective catalog and social networking accounts.

The personalization service can use the customer ID to member ID mappings in a variety of ways. As discussed above the member profiles retrieved from the social networking system typically include member IDs rather than personally identifiable information . The catalog system can use the customer ID to member ID mappings to determine which if any of the member IDs referred to in member profile data are also customers of the catalog system e.g. have a customer ID associated with the member ID . If the catalog system desires to target messages to particular customers who also have accounts on the social networking system the catalog system can determine the customers member IDs on the social networking system from the mappings in database . The catalog system can also determine which customers have social networking accounts by determining if there is a member ID associated with a given customer ID. Therefore the catalog system can use the database to determine customer ID from member ID or to determine member ID from customer ID.

The electronic catalog system and particularly the personalization service can use the retrieved social networking profile information to provide customized content or appearance of display pages to the customer of the catalog system . Profile data retrieved from the social networking system may be stored in a cache to reduce the need for data retrieval requests or may be persistently stored by the electronic catalog system. The electronic catalog system may also use the social networking system s interface to post information e.g. personalized messages to the social networking profiles of particular members. For example the catalog system may determine that if a particular customer buys an item then the customer s social networking friends may also be potential customers for the item. The messaging engine of the catalog system may communicate a message about the item to the service interface for posting on the walls or news feeds of the customer s social networking friends e.g. using member IDs obtained from the customer s member profile . In some implementations of the social networking system the message that is presented to a member may include a photo of the product or a hyperlink that allows the member to view or access a display page for the item from the catalog system e.g. by clicking on the photo or hyperlink .

The various components shown in may be implemented in an appropriate combination of hardware and software. For example the web servers and may be implemented using physical servers with processors memory etc. that are programmed with executable program code to respond to display page requests by generating and returning web pages. The personalization service social network interface and service interface may similarly be implemented using programmed physical servers or general purpose computers.

For purposes of illustration in the figures the fictitious names Catalog.com and Social Net are used in the display pages to refer to the electronic catalog system and the social networking system respectfully. In addition the fictitious names Chris Customer and Kim Contact are used to refer respectively to a particular user customer of the electronic catalog system and to a social network contact of this customer. In the example web pages shown it is assumed that Chris the customer viewing the illustrated web pages 1 has accounts with both the electronic catalog system and the social networking system 2 has created a social network profile on the social networking system and 3 has created contact relationships with other members of the social networking system including Kim. Kim may but need not have an account with the electronic catalog system .

The example page feature includes an image of the product and a brief description of the item e.g. title author price and whether the item is in stock . In this example the Like button is positioned near the title of the item. The size of the Like button relative to the size of the viewable area of the display page and or its positioning on the page can be selected so that the Like button is relatively easy for a user to find but not so large as to crowd other page features. Examples of interactions between the user customer and the catalog system after the user customer selects the Like button are described below with reference to . In many user interfaces the Like button can be selected for example by moving a cursor to the button and clicking a mouse or touchpad button on a user computing device or by tapping the button on a touchscreen.

In some implementations the catalog system may establish a default position size shape and or appearance for the Like button . For illustrative purposes the Like button as shown in will be considered to be the default Like button for a detail page for a product. The presentation of the default Like button may be different for different types of display pages. For new users or for customers who have not chosen to link their catalog system accounts with a social networking account the personalization service may present the Like button in its default form on a display page. For customers who have chosen to link their catalog system accounts with a social networking account the personalization service may use social networking information e.g. social networking member profiles to customize or personalize the presentation of the Like button to the customer see e.g. .

The page features are examples of other types of information that can be presented to a user customer. The page feature is an area of the page allowing a user customer to add one or more quantities of the item to an electronic shopping cart or to a wishlist for future purchase. The page feature may be presented prominently and in a standard position on the display page so that the customer can easily order the item. The page feature provides links to other sellers of the product and the page feature shows an additional item that is frequently purchased together with the product described in page feature . The page feature provides functionality for a user customer to download the item a book in this example to an electronic book reader. The page feature shows other items purchased by customers who also purchased the item described on the page . The page feature includes areas for a detailed description editorial reviews and customer reviews of the item. Additional or different page features can be used in other display pages.

To protect the privacy of customers the system may establish an opt in procedure by which a customer must affirmatively consent or authorize the electronic catalog system to connect or link the customer s account on the catalog system with the customer s account on the social networking system . If the customer s consent or authorization is not given the catalog system will not attempt to retrieve the customer s social networking profile information. In some such cases the system may thereafter deemphasize the appearance of the Like button for this particular customer by for example moving the button to the bottom of display pages reducing the size of the button compared to the default Like button or not presenting the Like button at all on some or all display pages . In situations in which the Like button is presented to a non consenting customer e.g. the default Like button is used the Like button may have limited or no functionality when selected by the customer unless the customer affirmatively consents at a later time . In other implementations the system may establish an opt out procedure by which customer a customer can request that his or her social networking information is not accessed by the system .

The connection between a catalog system account and a social networking account can be established for example when the user customer clicks the Like button . The actions following the click of the Like button may depend on whether or not the user customer is logged into the catalog system or has an existing account with the system .

In some embodiments if a user customer who is not logged in to the catalog system clicks the Like button the user customer may be first requested to log in if already a customer or to establish an account if not already a customer . illustrates an example format of a login or sign in page that may be used to allow a customer to log in or establish an account with the catalog system . If a customer already has an account the customer can enter a username e.g. an electronic mail address and a password in section . The page includes a section that describes privacy protections and the types of actions the system will not take without customer consent and describes some of the advantages of connecting the user customer s accounts on the catalog system and the social networking system.

After clicking the button Chris is presented with popover which requests permission from Chris to connect his catalog system account and his social networking account. The popover describes the actions the catalog system will take if Chris consents to connecting his catalog system account with his social networking account . If Chris decides not to consent Chris can click button and the system will not attempt to connect or link Chris s catalog system account to his social networking account. In this situation the customer s social networking information will remain private and unavailable to the catalog system . As described above in such a case the Like button may have limited or no functionality or may be deemphasized on display pages.

If Chris decides to consent Chris can click button and the system will take actions to connect the respective accounts. If Chris is not already logged in to the social networking system the catalog system may prompt Chris to authenticate that he has an account on the social networking system e.g. to authenticate that Chris is a member . For example the catalog system may use a popover not shown that allows Chris to enter his social networking username and password so that the system can be authorized to access Chris s social networking profile data from the social networking system .

In the example catalog system illustrated in the social network interface can use API calls to the service interface of the social networking system to establish the connection between Chris s catalog system account and his social networking system account. The catalog system can retrieve Chris s member profile from the social networking system and in some implementations store his member profile in cache .

After the connection has been made by the system Chris may be presented with popover that indicates the connection has been successfully made . In the illustrated embodiment the popover includes a text box that allows Chris to post a comment to the wall of his social networking account. The popover may also include a checkbox that allows Chris to consent to use the functionality of the Like button without having to sign in to his social networking account when he visits the catalog system web site in the future. If Chris consents the system can use Chris s stored social networking authentication credentials e.g. username and password to automatically sign in to the social networking site for Chris. If Chris does not consent when he visits the catalog system in the future Chris may be presented with a sign in popover not shown that permits his to sign in to the social networking system if he is not already signed in .

In other embodiments the catalog system may set up additional or alternative ways to connect a catalog system account with a social networking account. For example the system may provide a dedicated display page to which users can navigate to connect their accounts or the system may present a button or link on display pages that direct the user customer to a connection page e.g. Click here to connect to Social Net . In some implementations the social networking system may include functionality for connecting a social networking account to an electronic catalog system account.

If a customer has already logged in to the catalog system and has already consented to the connection between the respective accounts the customer need not be presented with the sign in page shown in and the popovers shown in . In this case after the customer clicks the Like button popover shown in may be presented to the customer. The example popover includes an indicator that Chris and others in his social network on the social networking system liked the product described on the page . The catalog system can determine such information e.g. that others in his social network liked the product by for example programmatically analyzing Chris s member profile retrieved from the social networking system and or customer account and behavioral data . The popover may include an image of Chris obtained from his member profile and may include a text box for Chris to comment on the product. If Chris adds a comment to the text box he can click button and his comment will be automatically posted to the social networking system e.g. via API calls made by the social network interface . The social networking system can present Chris s comment on his wall and his friends news feeds see e.g. .

After having decided to like an item by clicking the Like button a customer may at a later time decide that he or she does not like the item or has clicked the Like button by mistake. The catalog system may include functionality for a customer to unlike the item. illustrates an example popup that may appear for an item the customer likes. The popup includes the indicator that the customer and others in his social network liked the item and also includes an Unlike button . If the customer clicks the Unlike button the catalog system may remove information in its customer and behavioral data that the customer likes the item. The catalog system may also communicate the customer s preference to the social networking system e.g. via API calls to the service interface . The social networking system may update the customer s member profile and remove previous comments or postings indicating the customer liked the item.

After having opted in and authorized a connection between catalog and social networking accounts a customer may change his or her mind and want to opt out of the connection to the social networking system . The catalog system may establish display pages or links thereto so that a customer can withdraw consent and de link the respective accounts. After customer consent is withdrawn the catalog system may remove customer social networking information e.g. username and password information from the cache .

As will be discussed with reference to the catalog system can analyze the social networking information e.g. member profiles obtained from the social networking system for customers who have consented to connect their respective accounts. Based at least in part on this analysis the page customization engines of the personalization service can personalize or customize the appearance of page features on display pages presented to the customer. For example characteristics of the Like button including but not limited to appearance positioning content and size can be customized based at least in part on the customer s usage of the social networking system e.g. light user moderate user heavy user or ability to influence other users and or the degree to which the customer or the customer s social networking friends are likely to select items from the catalog system .

As described above illustrates an example of the Like button that may be used on pages describing items available for purchase from the catalog system . The appearance of the Like button illustrated in may represent a default appearance of the Like button that can be used if the system has little or no information about the social networking habits of the user or customer. The default appearance of the Like button may also be used for customers who are relatively light users of the social networking system . The appearance and positioning of the default Like button may be selected so that it is relatively easy for a user customer to locate the button on a web page but not so large as to crowd other page features.

The system may use behavioral data from the repository to determine that a particular customer rarely or never clicks on the Like button has not clicked on the Like button for a significant period of time or typically clicks the Like button for some genres e.g. books but not others e.g. music . For certain such customers the personalization service may deemphasize the appearance of the Like button as compared to the default by for example moving the button to the bottom of display pages so the customer would have to scroll the page to locate the button reducing the size of the button of the font size of the button text compared to the default Like button or not presenting the Like button at all on some or all display pages . For example if a customer frequently likes books and rarely or never likes music downloads the personalization service may display the Like button on item detail pages for books but may deemphasize the appearance of the Like button on item detail pages for music downloads. If analysis of the customer s social networking member profile indicates renewed interest in social networking by the customer the personalization service may restore the presentation of the default Like button or emphasize the button even more . In some implementations after having deemphasized the Like button for a customer the personalization service may from time to time present the Like button in its default or other appearance to provide such customers with future opportunities to access the Like functionality provided by the catalog system .

The page customization engines of the personalization service may alter the appearance of the Like button to emphasize the button for customers for example who are more active social networking users or who have social networking friends who may be likely to purchase items from the catalog service . illustrate example formats of display pages in which factors including but not limited to the amount of content the positioning the appearance and the size of the Like area are emphasized when compared to the example default Like button illustrated in . illustrates an example format of a Like button that has been moved from the example default position near the title of the item see to a position in the page feature that allows customers to add one or more quantities of the item to an electronic shopping cart or to a wishlist for future purchase. In this example not only is the overall size including text size of the Like button larger than the default Like button but the Like button has assumed a more prominent position on the page because the button has been placed in a page feature that customers naturally turn to when ordering items. A customer who is likely to purchases the item may also be more likely to click the Like button . The page customization engines may present the Like button to customers the system determines are light to moderate users of the social networking system who might appreciate a more prominent appearance of the Like button as compared to the default Like button .

Due to the larger size of the Like area compared to the Like buttons the page presentation engines may choose to resize rearrange remove or substitute other page features to be presented on the page . For example in the page feature links to other sellers of the product shown in has been removed and the page feature items frequently bought together has been moved up in the page to be positioned below the page feature .

The Like area is more prominently displayed in the page than the Like buttons are in their respective pages . The page customization engines may present the Like area for example to customers the system determines are moderate users of the social networking system or moderate influencers of potential selection decisions as such users may be more likely to appreciate the additional social networking content and functionality of the Like area as compared to the buttons .

Continuing with the example described with reference to the catalog system has identified member IDs of two of Chris Customer s friends on the social networking system. The catalog system has used the customer ID to Member ID Mappings to determine that one of the member IDs belongs to Kim Contact who is also a customer of the catalog system . Because the system knows Kim s customer ID the system can analyze behavioral data to determine e.g. Kim s purchasing and item viewing histories. The system also determines that Kim has linked her social networking account and her catalog system account.

The system is unable to personally identify the second member ID e.g. there is no mapping to customer ID in the database at the present time . This may indicate that the second member is not a customer of the catalog system or has not linked his or her customer account with his or her social networking account. The system determines from Chris s member profile that the second member uses a social networking name Frank Friend which may or may not be this person s real name .

Based at least in part on an analysis of Chris s and Kim s social networking member profile data and customer account and behavioral data the page customization engines customize the customization areas and for Chris. In this illustrative example the personalization service determines that Kim s birthday is in 3 weeks and that Kim likes the author of the book on the page that is being viewed by Chris. The system also determines from Kim s purchasing history that Kim has not purchased this book. The personalization service customizes the customization area to include Kim s social networking profile image and information about Kim s upcoming birthday. Because Kim has not purchased the book the personalization service includes a button in the customization area that allows Chris to purchase a copy of the book for Kim for her birthday.

In this example the catalog system analyzes Chris s profile data and determines that Frank also likes books by the author of the book shown on page . The personalization service customizes the customization area to include Frank s social networking profile image obtained from Chris s member profile data and a button that Chris can click to send a recommendation to Frank. If Chris clicks the button the messaging engines of the personalization service can communicate a message to the service interface of the social networking system about Chris s recommendation. The social networking system can post Chris s recommendation on Frank s wall or deliver a private electronic mail message to Frank indicating Chris s recommendation. The post or the electronic mail message may include a link to the catalog system so that Frank can easily order the item if desired from the catalog system.

The catalog system can include additional or different customization areas in the Like area or in other customizable display features . For example the catalog system may use Chris s social networking and behavioral data to determine recommendations of items for Chris. As an example the system may determine from Chris s social networking data that Chris likes books by the author Neal Stephenson see e.g. and from Chris s purchasing history that Chris has not purchased the book Cryptonomicon. The system in this example may include a customizable area with a recommendation to Chris that he might like Cryptonomicon. 

The page customization engines may present the Like area to customers the system determines are moderate to heavy users of the social networking system and who are more likely not only to appreciate the additional social networking content and functionality of the Like area but also more likely to purchase or recommend items to their social networking friends. As will be discussed below the page customization engines may present the Like area to customers who are significant influencers of potential purchasing decisions made by other users for the item or related items. The page customization engines may also present Like areas similar to area to customers who have social networking friends that are also customers of the catalog system and likely to purchase items from the catalog system. The increased integration of social networking features with catalog system features that is included in the areas e.g. the comment box and the customization areas make it relatively easy for such customers to interact with the social networking system and thereby spread the word about items to their social networking contacts or to others.

The disclosed systems and methods for customizing the Like button or other page features advantageously can increase the likelihood that customers will use such buttons thereby increasing the amount of item preference information that can be collected for particular customers. Such item preference information can enable the catalog system to provide more reliable item recommendations to customers or to otherwise provide a greater degree of personalization. For example the customized areas of the display page may include information about items that are popular among the customer s social network contacts.

The Like buttons Like areas and customization areas and are merely representative of the format and types of customization and personalization that can be performed by embodiments of the personalization system . The Like buttons areas and or other customized areas may be implemented using text other than the term like and or using graphical symbols. For example the catalog system may display thumbs up and thumbs down buttons that can be clicked to indicate user like or dislike of an item or may display a rating element that enables users via a single mouse click to rate an item on a scale of 1 to 5 stars. The systems and methods disclosed herein can be used to customize or personalize such thumbs up thumbs down buttons or rating element areas of display pages or other types of page features that allow a user to interact with a display page. The systems and methods disclosed herein can be used to customize the look and feel of any type of content presented to the user with the customization based at least in part on the size or activity of the user s social network.

Further the screen displays shown in are merely representative of some of the types of display pages and personalized page features that may be presented to users and customers and of the format in which such display pages and page features may be presented to users and customers. In other examples the appearance size positioning content and so forth of the customizable features of display pages may be different than shown in the illustrative display pages. Also for privacy reasons some or all of the types of personalized page features shown in the illustrative display pages may be accessible to a customer only when the customer is logged into the electronic catalog system and has consented to a connection between the customer s catalog system and social networking system accounts.

As will be discussed with reference to the catalog system can analyze the social networking information retrieved from the social networking system to determine whether and how often to communicate customized messages about items and services available on the catalog system to selected members of the social networking system. In the example news feed shown in the catalog system has analyzed the social networking information and customer behavioral data and has determined that several of Chris s friends on the social networking system recently purchased an item. The catalog system also has determined that Chris had not purchased the item from the catalog system . Based at least in part on this analysis the messaging engines have communicated a personalized message to Chris about the item. The social networking system has received the message from the catalog system and has posted the message to Chris s news feed . The message can include hyperlinks that can be clicked by Chris to directly access the item page on the catalog system . For example in the message the title of the item and the product image may be hyperlinks.

In other examples the message from the catalog system may be a personal message communicated directly to a member that the social networking system posts to a personal private message area of the social networking system rather than to a publicly viewable area such as the news feed. In still other examples the message from the catalog system may be an electronic mail message communicated to a member s electronic mail account.

Although the example screen displays shown in depict web pages displayed by a web browser other types of user interfaces may be used to view the display pages. For example the personalized content may be presented via a user interface of a proprietary mobile phone or electronic book reader application that makes page requests over a network to the personalization service .

At block the process determines whether a customer has authorized a connection between the customer s catalog system account and social networking system account. If the customer has not provided the authorization the process ends which protects the privacy of the customer s social networking information. If the customer has provided authorization the process continues at block where the personalization service retrieves the customer s social networking member profile from the social networking system . At block the personalization service analyzes the customer s member profile to determine the member IDs of the customer s friends and contacts in the customer s social network. The group of friends and contacts identified by member ID will be referred to below as the customer s social network contacts. 

At block the personalization service uses the customer ID to member ID mappings stored in the repository to determine whether any of the social network contacts identified at block correspond to customers of the catalog system . Member IDs that can be mapped to a customer ID will be referred to below as friend customers because the social network contact is both a friend of the customer and a customer of the catalog system . Member IDs that cannot be mapped to a customer ID will be referred to below as unknown friends because although the social network contact is a friend of the customer the social network contact cannot be identified as a customer and is effectively unknown to the catalog system . In some cases unknown friends may be customers of the catalog system who have not consented to linkage between their social networking and catalog accounts.

If the catalog system determines that a mapping between customer ID and member ID is not already stored in the repository the system may add this new mapping to the repository so that the catalog system can build up an up to date database linking social networking system members and catalog system customers.

In some embodiments of the process the personalization service may repeat blocks to for the friend customers identified at block to generate a more detailed picture of the customer s social network. Accordingly in various embodiments the blocks to may be performed once to obtain the customer s social network out to the friend level twice to obtain the customer s social network out to the friend of friend level and so forth. The retrieved social networking profile information can be stored in the cache to reduce the need for future retrievals of social networking information for the social network contacts of the customer.

At block the personalization service retrieves from the repository customer account data and behavioral data e.g. purchase histories search histories item viewing histories etc. for the customer and the friend customers. As discussed above the catalog system may not have customer or behavioral information for the unknown customers or may not be able to map the unknown customers because they have not linked their social networking accounts to their catalog system accounts. In some embodiments the system attempts to find a match between an unknown customer and a current customer based on similarities between the profiles of an unknown customer and the matched customer. For example the system may attempt to match demographic profiles e.g. age gender geographical location likes and preferences for items authors artists organizations hobbies etc. The personalization service may use the behavioral data for the matched customer as a proxy for the behavioral data for the unknown customer.

In some embodiments of the process the blocks to are repeated for each social networking system to which the customer has linked his or her catalog system account.

At block the personalization service determines the social network usage by the customer. For example the usage may be based at least in part on some or all of the following factors 1 the number of social network contacts 2 the number of friend customers 3 the number of unknown customers 4 the amount of interaction on the social networking system between the customer and the social contacts and 5 the amount of recent activity by the customer on the social networking system. The usage may comprise a weighted combination of these factors or additional or different factors .

Social network usage may also include a customer s ability to influence others with respect to items available from the catalog system . For example the system may determine whether a customer is an actual or potential influencer with respect to one or more items. Influencers may but need not have a relatively large social network and or may but need not be heavy users of social networking sites. Influencers can act as promoters or advocates by raising awareness of items among various communities or social networks. For example an influencer may be a writer reviewer blogger commentator or celebrity whose writings or postings are followed by others or are relatively widely disseminated. Influencers may shape future buying decisions by others and may be trendsetters or early adopters who can increase the perceived need for items or categories of items by others. Influencers may be influential with respect to one or a few items or categories of items or may be influential with respect to broad classes or genres. For example a customer who is an online reviewer of rap music may be an influencer for the category of rap music but may have little or no influence with respect to other categories of music e.g. rock classical or jazz or other item categories e.g. books movies fashion etc. .

In various embodiments the system determines social network usage by including additionally or alternatively to the above factors a customer s influence based at least in part on one or more of the following factors 1 the number of times a customer posts information about or comments on an item or group of items 2 whether the customer is among the first in his or her social network to post information about or comment on item s 3 whether others have indicated that they have found a posting or comment by the customer to be helpful 4 interaction among the customer s social network contacts with respect to the customer s post or comment related to an item 5 the amount of traffic to a detail page for the item that is generated by customer views of postings or comments by the influencer and 6 the number or cash value of or revenue generated by selections of the item based on the web traffic in factor 5 . As an example of factor 4 the catalog system may analyze the social network data and or customer behavioral data to determine the number of times a customer s comment or post about an item has been liked or commented on by others. As an example of factors 5 the catalog system may analyze the social network data and or customer behavioral data to determine the number of times customers have clicked a link to the detail page in a posting or comment by the influencer. As an example of 6 the catalog system may use the social network data and or customer behavioral data and the information from factor 5 to determine how many customers selected the item for e.g. purchase rental etc.

At block the personalization service determines the potential of the customer s social network usage to drive traffic to a display page for an item or to generate selections of the item or other items from the catalog system . For example the potential may also reflect potential for selections of items that may be frequently purchased together with the item or that may be marketed together with the item by the catalog system e.g. extended product warranties for the item a paid membership program that provides additional customer benefits such as e.g. low or no cost or expedited shipping etc. . Since the potential for traffic to or selections from the catalog system may be more likely for those users with accounts on the system the potential may be determined by weighting information about friend customers more than information about unknown customers whose profile has not been matched to a profile of a current customer . For example the potential for traffic or selections may be based at least in part on some or all of the following factors 1 the number of friend customers e.g. relative to the total number of social contacts 2 the number of unknown customers whose profile has been matched to a current customer and 3 behavioral histories of the friend customers or matched customers. The behavioral histories from repository can be used to identify to friend customers or matched customers who frequently select or have recently selected items from the catalog system or who have frequently or recently clicked the Like button. Such customers tend to have more potential to visit select from or indicate likes and preferences from the catalog web system. Customers who have a tendency to indicate their likes and preferences for items generally will drive more traffic and potential sales to the system because their likes and preferences can be communicated to their friends on the social networking system e.g. such customers may be influencers for particular types of items . Thus the likes and preferences of these customers may have more potential to spread the word about items and services which can lead to further web traffic sales and new customers for the catalog system .

For particular classes or genres of items e.g. books music video etc. the system may analyze the behavioral data to determine the potential of friends or matched customers to buy items in that class or genre. For example a customer who frequently buys books but only infrequently buys music may be given more potential when the requested item detail page is for a book than when the requested item detail page is for music.

At block the process generates one or more social networking scores for the customer based at least in part on the analysis performed at blocks e.g. social networking usage and e.g. potential for traffic or selections of the item or other items . For example the social networking score will tend to be higher for customers having a greater amount of social networking usage or having a greater potential to direct traffic to or generate selections from the catalog system . In some embodiments the social networking score is a weighted combination e.g. weighted average of one or more of the factors determined at blocks and . As one example a customer may have a large and active social network e.g. having a relatively large number of social network contacts who frequently interact . This factor would tend to increase the social network score for the customer. However if relatively few of the social network contacts are current or potential customers or likely to visit the catalog system the overall social networking score generated this customer may be relatively low. As another example a customer may have a relatively small social network e.g. having a relatively small number of social network contacts but a relatively high percentage of these social network contacts are current customers who frequently purchase items from the catalog system. The overall social networking score for this customer may be relatively high e.g. higher than the overall score for the customer in the first example .

In some implementations the system may generate multiple scores with different scores generated for different customizable features that can be included in the display page. The different types of customizable features may depend on the item or type of item and or events that may occur in the customer s social network. Continuing with the illustrative example of Chris Carpenter assume that his friend Kim Contact s birthday is in 3 weeks. The process may generate a score for the customizable feature illustrated in which includes a notification to Chris about Kim s upcoming birthday and a button allowing Chris to purchase an item for Kim. The process may generate a score for other possible customizable features. For example the feature may include a notification about Kim s upcoming birthday and information about one or more related items e.g. an item frequently purchased with the item an extended warranty a paid membership program etc. . The scores may depend at least partially on the time before an event occurs. For example the scores discussed above for page features related to Kim s birthday may depend on whether Kim s birthday is several weeks several days or one day in the future. As will be discussed with reference to block the social networking score s can be used by the page customization engines to customize the appearance size positioning and prominence of the Like button or Like area for the customer.

At optional block the catalog system may establish scores or rankings for some or all of the other features that can be presented on display pages see for example the page features illustrated in . The catalog system may establish a score for the feature based at least in part on one or more factors including 1 the importance of the feature to the display page 2 customer expectations that the feature will be present on the page or have a particular appearance or position on the page 3 actual or potential revenue generated by the feature if the feature appears on the page and 4 actual or potential lost revenue if the feature does not appear or is deemphasized on the page. For example the item image and description in the page feature and the item ordering functionality in the page feature are very important to a detail page describing the item. Also customer expectations about the look and feel of the catalog system s web pages may indicate that the page features and should be near the top of the page and on the left and right respectively. Such page features may have relatively high scores or rankings . Other features may be less important to certain display pages and their appearance size positioning etc. on the page may be measured by a score determined by comparing for example the amount of revenue actual or potential that may be generated by their appearance or the amount of revenue actual or potential that may be lost if they do not appear or appear less prominently .

At block the page customization engines of the personalization service can generate one or more customizable features of a display page based at least in part on the social networking score s determined at block . In some embodiments the higher the social networking score s the higher the degree of customization and conversely the lower the social networking score s the lower the degree of customization. For example for customers with relatively low social networking scores e.g. light users of the social networking system the personalization service may generate a display page that includes the default Like button see the example illustrated in . For customers with higher social networking scores e.g. moderate users of the social networking system the personalization service may emphasize the appearance and or content of the Like button as illustrated for example in e.g. the Like area . For customers with even higher social networking scores e.g. heavy users of the social networking system or users with significant influence the personalization service may emphasize the appearance and content to an even greater degree and include a prominent Like area as illustrated for example in .

In some embodiments the personalization service may compare one or more of a customer s social networking scores to one or more thresholds to determine the degree of customization to be presented to the customer or to determine which customizable features to include in the display page. As one example the catalog system may set thresholds that correspond to light moderate and heavy social networking usage and provide increasing amounts of customization if the customer s social networking score equals or exceeds a corresponding threshold. As another example the catalog system may rank scores for different page features and include one or more of the page features if their respective scores exceed one or more thresholds. In some such embodiments one or more of the thresholds can be predetermined and in other embodiments one or more of the thresholds can by adjusted or changed by the personalization service as the catalog system gathers information about customer usage of the like functionality or effectiveness of the like functionality to generate traffic to or selections from the catalog system .

The personalization service may use the social networking score for applications. For example if a customer is very active on the catalog system or the social networking system or has a relatively large social network e.g. is a moderate or heavy social networking user or is a significant influencer of other users behaviors e.g. is an influencer the catalog system may prompt the customer to post reviews or ratings of items on the catalog system or social networking system. In some embodiments the catalog system may give the customer an incentive to make such postings e.g. by compensating the customer when the customer s social networking contacts make purchases from the catalog system.

Although some of the above examples are described in terms of three levels of customization e.g. light moderate and heavy social networking or influence this is not intended to be a limitation and in other examples any suitable amount or degree of customization can be provided by the personalization service.

As discussed above with reference to optional block some implementations of the catalog system generate scores for other features that can be presented on a display page. In some such implementations the personalization service may compare the customer s social networking score to scores for other page features to determine the extent of the customization of the respective features. For example the Like area in the example shown in is significantly larger than the default Like button shown in and replaces the page features and shown in . Although there may be a benefit to including a larger or more prominent Like area e.g. greater traffic and potential sales in some cases there may be a cost associated with removing or deemphasizing other page features. For example by removing or deemphasizing the Frequently Bought Together page feature the catalog system may lose revenue on convoyed sales of related items. Therefore certain embodiments of the personalization service can use the scores of respective page features to determine whether the benefit of adding or emphasizing the appearance of one page feature outweighs the cost of removing or deemphasizing another page feature. For example the personalization service may use the scores to rank the features to be incorporated into a page requested by a user customer with the top ranked features e.g. the top 10 features being presented to the user customer.

At block the page customization engines incorporate the top ranked page features into a display page which may be presented to the user customer via the web servers using one or more page templates from the repository .

As described above the electronic catalog system may implement functionality that allows a customer to like an item described on a display page e.g. by clicking a Like button. When a customer clicks the Like button information about the display page e.g. information about the item product images product reviews hyperlinks to the catalog page for the item etc. is communicated to the social networking system and incorporated into the customer s member profile. The customer s member profile can be updated to include a connection reflecting that the customer liked the item presented on the display page. For example display pages may include metadata that allows various aspects of the display page to be represented in the member profiles of the social networking system e.g. descriptions images etc. . In some embodiments display pages may utilize the Open Graph protocol available from opengraphprotocol.org to permit integration of the display page into the social graph of the social networking system . The social networking system can integrate this like information into member profile pages postings on member news feeds and results for searches performed on the social networking system.

Other members of the social networking system who view a posting or news feed about a customer s like of an item can also indicate that they too like the item e.g. by clicking a button with like functionality provided by the social networking system . The likes of all these members can be incorporated into the social graph of the social networking system through updates of corresponding member profiles. In certain implementations the social networking system can provide functionality for administrators of a display page to obtain statistics and detailed analytics about members who liked the display page. The social networking system may also enable display page administrators to communicate messages to some or all of the members who have liked the display page.

The electronic catalog system can analyze member profile information obtained from the social networking system to determine for example the content or timing of marketing or informational messages communicated from the catalog system to users of the social networking system . For example the catalog system may determine which social network members liked an item available from the electronic catalog and direct messages to some or all of those members. The messages may be preferentially sent to social network members who are current or potential customers of the catalog system . Certain embodiments of the catalog system utilize the personalization service and the messaging engines to communicate customized or personalized messages to the social network members.

The electronic catalog system may monitor events that are associated with some or all items or services offered by the catalog system and after occurrence of such event s may determine that a message about the event s should be communicated to customers of the catalog system or members of the social networking system who have indicated they like the item.

Events associated with items item events can include but are not limited to 1 new user activity on a detail page for the item 2 a price change for the item 3 a new merchant offering for the item that is different from current offerings 4 new versions or editions of the item 5 new products services from the provider of the item and 6 new products services related to the item. There can be multiple events for any item and some types of events may be classifiable in more than one of the example categories 1 6 .

Examples of 1 include new images of the item posted by customers new reviews of the item text reviews or video reviews comments on reviews or indications that the reviews were helpful new tags e.g. keywords or category labels for the item changes in sales rank page viewings or the number of likes for the item e.g. a rise in popularity of the item . Examples of 1 can also include an indication that quantity of the item available from a merchant is decreasing e.g. the item is running out of stock . Examples of 3 include merchant promotions for the item e.g. a holiday promotion or special deal . Examples of 5 include for a book or movie a new book by the book author or a new movie by the movie director or movie star. Examples of 6 include new products that are often viewed or purchased by customers after viewing or purchasing the item. Examples of 6 also include any type of event that occurs for the related product e.g. a significant price drop for a product that is often purchased with the item .

In some implementations item events may be ranked by a precedence factor that is indicative of the event s potential relevance to customers or social network members. For example a 20 price drop for an item may be ranked higher than a 5 price drop. A video review posted for an item may be ranked higher than a text review of the item. An upcoming release of a new book by an author may be ranked higher than the release of a new edition of an old book by the author. The catalog system may maintain a list of item events with the list sorted by precedence factor. As will be described below the precedence factor among other things may be used to determine the content of the message e.g. which events to include in the message when and via what channel to send the message and to whom the message should be sent.

As described above the catalog system can determine a list of item events associated with items in the electronic catalog. The catalog system can use social networking information and customer behavioral information to determine a set of customers and social networking members who may receive a message about the event. For example the catalog system can generate a score that reflects the potential of a message with information about the item event to drive traffic to a detail page for the item or to generate selections of the item e.g. page views searches purchases downloads rentals likes additions to wishlists etc. . In some embodiments the score can be based at least in part on factors such as e.g. 1 the number of social networking system members that have liked the item 2 the number of the members determined in 1 who are also customers of the catalog system and 3 behavioral information e.g. purchasing and viewing histories of the customers determined in 2 .

The catalog system can obtain information about factor 1 from the social networking system e.g. via API calls requesting statistical or analytical data or by analyzing member profiles received from the social networking system . Such information can include member IDs of the social networking members who have liked the item. The catalog system can use the customer ID to member ID mappings from the repository to determine which of the social networking members are also customers of the catalog system e.g. to determine factor 2 . For factor 3 the catalog system can use behavioral data from the repository to determine item selection histories and like histories for the customers. In some embodiments the catalog system may use factors 2 and 3 to determine additional factor s indicative of how often and to what extent customers interact with the catalog system. For example the system may determine whether a customer is a frequent or infrequent buyer of products similar to the item e.g. a frequent buyer of books if the item is a book or whether a customer is likely to write product reviews comment on or like the item etc.

The catalog system may combine factors such as those described above to generate the score for an item event. The various factors may be weighted to reflect their relative importance in determining the potential for traffic or sales. The score for a message about an item event will generally be higher if there are a relatively large number of social networking members who liked the item and if a relatively high percentage of those members are frequent buyers of products from the catalog system. As described above the catalog system may generate a precedence factor for different types of events that are associated with an item e.g. a 20 price drop has more precedence than a 5 price drop . In some embodiments the score is also based on the precedence factor with the score being higher for item events having more precedence or relevance to a member or customer.

The score can be used at least partially to select social networking members or catalog system customers to whom to send a message. As one example suppose the item event is a significant price drop for a book e.g. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows . The analysis of the social networking and behavioral information may show that for example there are a large number of social networking members who like the works by the author J. K. Rowling of this book. The analysis may also show that e.g. 40 of the members are also catalog system customers and of those customers 20 have already purchased the Harry Potter book. In this example the score for the price drop on the Harry Potter book may be relatively high for several reasons. First since there are a large number of social networking members who like the author s works and only 40 of them can be identified as current customers of the catalog system there are a large number of potential customers who might be interested in learning about a price drop for the book e.g. the 60 of members who cannot be identified as catalog system customers . A message to those members with information about the price drop may lead to significant traffic to the catalog system detail page for the Harry Potter book and numerous orders for the book. Second analysis of the customer behavioral data indicates that only 20 of the customers who like the author have purchased the Harry Potter book. The catalog system may send a message to the remaining 80 of customers who have not purchased the book according to catalog system purchasing histories with information about the price drop because this message may also generate web traffic and potential sales.

Continuing with this illustrative example suppose there is a second event associated with the book for example a new book by an author of books that are frequently bought together with the Harry Potter book e.g. the book The Lost Symbol by Dan Brown . Because the Lost Symbol book is a related product the catalog system may assign a lower precedence factor and score to the publication of The Lost Symbol than to the price drop on the Harry Potter book. However for the 20 of customers who have already purchased the Harry Potter book the price drop in some cases may be assigned a relatively low precedence factor and for these customers the score for the publication of The Lost Symbol may be higher than the score for the price drop on the Harry Potter book. Therefore for these customers the catalog system may send a message about the publication of the Lost Symbol rather than a message about the price drop on the Harry Potter book. In other cases the catalog system may determine that the price drop has relevance to customers who have already purchased the Harry Potter book because the system determine that some or all of these customers frequently purchase books for friends in their social network. The catalog system may also sent a message about the publication of The Lost Symbol to members and customers who were earlier sent the Harry Potter message. As will be further described below to increase the effectiveness of the Lost Symbol message the catalog system may send the message following a delay period e.g. 3 hours 1 day 1 week after the time the Harry Potter message was sent so that members and customers are more likely to view and respond to the second message e.g. rather than ignoring or deleting it .

The electronic catalog of the catalog system may include millions or tens of millions of items which may make it impractical to monitor each item for events associated with the item. In some embodiments the catalog system may monitor events only for a subset of all the items offered in the electronic catalog. For example the catalog system may determine the number of likes for items in the electronic catalog and generate the subset as those items for which the number of likes exceeds a threshold e.g. the top 10liked items . The number of likes for items can be updated hourly daily weekly etc. and the threshold may be item dependent e.g. different thresholds for books than for videos . Additionally or alternatively to counting the number of times an item is liked the catalog system may count the number of times the Like button is presented for that item which can allow the system to determine the ratio of Like button selections to Like button presentations. The subset of items may include items in which this ratio is relatively large e.g. above a threshold because these items effectively engage users or customers who are more likely to interact with the item detail page e.g. by selecting the Like button .

A number of events may be found to be associated with any particular item for example a price drop a video review of the item on the catalog system a member comment about the item on the social networking system and a vendor promotion e.g. a special holiday deal . The catalog system may filter the item events associated with the items being monitored to determine which events may be most relevant to members or customer or which events may be more likely to lead to web traffic and sales of the item. As described above the item events may be filtered based on one or more precedence factors for the events e.g. a 20 price drop has more precedence than a 5 price drop . For example the catalog system may rank events based on the precedence factors such that for a social networking member or catalog system customer the highest ranked event is likely to be the most relevant for that member or customer. As one example a price drop event may be ranked more highly for a customer who has not purchased the item than for a customer who has already purchased the item. Messages to the members and customers may include for example some or all of the most highly ranked events so that the member or customer is likely to find the message useful and informative.

As many social networking members and catalog system customers may have many items that they like the catalog system may determine a list of multiple messages to send to each member or customer. For example a member may have indicated he or she likes twenty five items and the catalog service may have identified events for ten of those items. If the catalog service were to send to the member ten messages about these item events the member may find receipt of these ten messages which could fill up the member s news feed for a period of time more of a distraction than helpful information about an item they like. Therefore the catalog system may filter the messages so that 1 only some of the messages are sent e.g. the messages with the highest scores or precedence for the member 2 combine some or all of the item events into one message or a small number of messages 3 stagger the delivery of some or all of the messages over a time period selected so that the member has a reasonable time to view and respond to each message before the next message arrives 4 send some different messages via different messaging channels e.g. news feed personal electronic mail text or video message to a mobile phone e book reader or to a shopping application on such devices etc. or a combination of the foregoing.

As an example of 1 the catalog system may send only those messages that have a score that exceeds a threshold. The threshold may depend on the type of item e.g. book or movie or the nature of item event. As an example of 3 items posted to a news feed generally appear in the news feed for a time period before they are replaced by new items. This time period may be about three to six hours for some social networking systems. The catalog system may stagger messages to a member so that at any time only one message from the catalog system is likely to be present in the member s news feed.

The personalization service of the catalog system can customize the content of the message based on e.g. the score for the message and precedence values for various item events. Messages may include information about the item event an image of the item a text or video review of the item posted by a customer or social networking member a sample of a portion of a book music or video clip and so forth. When there is more than one event for an item the personalization service may rank the events by precedence and include information only about events that have a sufficient precedence value e.g. to reduce the likelihood of saturating the recipient with too much information . As an example if there is a significant vendor promotion on the item and a new text review of the item the system may determine that the vendor promotion is likely to be more relevant to potential customers than the text review and include only the vendor promotion in the message.

As described below the catalog system can use member and customer feedback about the effectiveness of the messaging to determine content for future messages. For example the feedback may indicate that messages that include a video review of an item are more effective at driving traffic and sales than messages that include a text review of the item. The personalization service can use this feedback to preferentially include video reviews in future messages.

The catalog system may monitor the effectiveness of the messaging to determine for example whether a particular message led to increased web traffic or increased sales. The system can determine this effectiveness by analyzing the social networking member profile information e.g. from repository and the customer behavioral data e.g. from repository . As one example when a customer views an item detail page or purchases an item from the catalog system the system can map the customer ID to a member ID to determine whether a message about the item had been recently sent to the customer s social networking account. The system can also whether the item detail page was accessed by clicking on a link provided in the message. The system may also monitor whether the message engaged social networking members who may have viewed the message in their news feed. For example the system may analyze the social networking member profile data to determine the number of members who commented on or liked the message.

In some implementations the catalog system can use the results of this monitoring to increase the effectiveness of the messaging and lead to increased web traffic and sales. For example precedence factors weights filter parameters and so forth can be changed or adjusted based on this customer or member feedback so that message scores and rankings better represent the effectiveness and engagement of the messaging. The feedback information can also be used to better select content of the message timing of the delivery of messages and channels for message delivery so that members find the messages to be useful at providing information about items they like. For example if member and customer feedback indicates that a message with a new text review of an item leads to relatively little new traffic or sales the weights and precedence values for text reviews can be reduced relative to other item events.

At block the process monitors events associated with items available from an electronic catalog. As described above the catalog system may monitor events only for a subset of all the items offered in the electronic catalog. For example the catalog system may determine the number of likes for items in the electronic catalog and generate the subset as those items for which the number of likes exceeds a threshold e.g. the top 10liked items . The number of likes for items can be updated hourly daily weekly etc. and the threshold may be item dependent e.g. different thresholds for books than for videos .

At block the process determines a set of events that are associated with a particular item. For example there may be a price drop on the item a newly uploaded video review of the item by a customer a special promotion by a vendor and a price drop on a product that is frequently purchased with the item. At block the process filters the set of events associated with the item. For example the process may assign precedence values to each event and rank the events according to their precedence. As an example the precedence of a price drop for a customer who has not purchased the item may be relatively high whereas the precedence of the price drop may be relatively low for a customer who has already purchased the item. The filtering may improve the likelihood that messages about item events that are relevant and interesting to a particular member or customer are communicated to that customer and messages about item events having little relevance are not communicated.

At block the process customizes the content of a message for the item. The process may include in the message information about only the most relevant events identified at block . As described above member and customer feedback information can be used to identify the type of content that is most effective at driving traffic and item selections and the process can incorporate the most effective type s of content into the message.

At block the process can use social networking information and customer behavioral information to generate a score that reflects the potential of a message to drive traffic to a detail page for the item or to generate purchases of the item. The score can be based at least in part on a combination of factors such as e.g. 1 the number of social networking system members that have liked the item 2 the number of the members determined in 1 who are also customers of the catalog system and 3 behavioral information e.g. purchasing and viewing histories of the customers determined in 2 . The various factors may be weighted to reflect their relative importance in determining the potential of the message for traffic or sales.

At block the process repeats the blocks to for other items that have been liked by members of the social networking system or customers of the catalog system . The result of this block is a determination of a set of potential messages and their associated scores for events associated with items like by social networking members or catalog system customers. In subsequent blocks the process can determine which of these potential messages to send which members or customers to sent them to and when to send them.

At block the process filters the potential messages found at block by their respective scores. For example the filtering may rank the messages by score or remove messages with scores below a threshold. The process may use social networking information or customer behavioral data to filter the messages for particular customers or classes of customers . For example the filtering may pass a message about a price drop for an item for customers who have not already purchased the item but may reject the message about the price drop for customers who have already purchased the item. The filtering at block may improve the messaging by identifying the messages that have the most potential to drive traffic and sales to the catalog system .

At block the process communicates the message with the highest score to a messaging channel for a member of the social networking system. The messaging channel may be the news feeds of members or customers whom the message score indicates the item event information may be relevant or useful. In other cases the messaging channel may be a personal message to the social networking channel a personal electronic mail message or a message to a mobile phone e book reader or to a shopping application on such devices. For example in the case of a message intended for the news feeds of certain social networking members the messaging engines may communicate the message via API calls to the service interface of the social networking system . The social networking system may post the message to the news feeds of the intended recipients.

At block the process filters the remaining messages if any to determine their ability to effectively drive traffic and sales to the catalog system or to engage the members of the social networking system e.g. to promote comments and likes . The filtering may be based at least partially on the scores associated with the remaining messages e.g. to determine the highest ranked remaining messages the times when previous messages were sent messaging channels used for previous messages etc. The filtering at block can be used to determine whether to send or hold the next message or whether to send the message to a different messaging channel than previously sent messages.

For example as described above items posted to a news feed generally appear in the news feed for a time period before they are replaced by new items. This time period may be about 3 to 6 hours for some social networking systems. The filtering at block may delay subsequent messages to a messaging channel so that at any time only one or a few messages from the catalog system are likely to be present in the messaging channel. This advantageously may increase the likelihood that a member will view the message and act on the message content by for example visiting or purchasing from the catalog system or liking or commenting on the message to the member s friends. In some cases the filtering may determine that the next message should go to a different messaging channel than the previous message. For example if a first message was posted to the news feeds the next message may be communicated via personal e mail to members or customers and so forth. By selectively distributing messages among different messaging channels the catalog system may able to communicate a wide range of information that is helpful and effective without saturating a member s tolerance for receiving messages on a single messaging channel.

The process continues at block where the remaining messages are processed. For example after the filtering at block the next highest ranked message is communicated to members or customers. This process continues until there are no remaining messages that pass the filtering process. In some embodiments of the process the blocks to are repeated for other social networking system to which catalog system customers have linked their catalog system accounts. Accordingly personalized messages about item events can be communicated to any of a number of social networking systems.

Although certain processes have been described above in the context of products represented in a catalog the processes shown in may be used to generate social networking customized display pages and messages for items and services such as e.g. authors artists blogs web sites news articles news feeds restaurants clubs and organizations. Also the system and methods disclosed herein can use any suitable information upon which to base customization or messaging including but not limited to social networking data from one or more social networking systems customer behavioral data derived from user interaction with the catalog system or any other type of information about e.g. habits preferences trends or potential buying decisions of users or customers e.g. advertising or marketing data survey data etc. .

Although described in the context of an electronic catalog system that retrieves profile data from a social networking system the features and processes described above can also be implemented in a variety of other environments. As one example some or all of the disclosed features can be implemented by the social networking system itself. As another example the disclosed features could be implemented in the context of a personalized news site in which case the retrieved social network profile data may be used to personalize delivery of content e.g. news stories news feeds blog entries etc. to users of the news site or messages e.g. marketing or informational messages to users of the social networking.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers computer processors or machines configured to execute computer instructions. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical disc and or the like. The systems and modules may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

