---

title: Single layer sensor pattern
abstract: A capacitive sensor array comprises large sensor electrodes and small sensor electrodes formed from a single layer of conductive material. Each sensor electrode of a first set of small sensor electrodes is electrically connected to a first pad. A first axis crosses two or more of the sensor electrodes of the first set of small sensor electrodes, and each small sensor electrode of the first set of small sensor electrodes is located on an opposite lateral side of one of the large sensor electrodes from another small sensor electrode of the first set. Each sensor electrode of a second set of small sensor electrodes is electrically connected to a second pad. A second axis crosses two or more of the sensor electrodes of the second set of small sensor electrodes, and each small sensor electrode of the second set is located on an opposite lateral side of one of the large sensor electrodes from another small sensor electrode of the second set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09658726&OS=09658726&RS=09658726
owner: Cypress Semiconductor Corporation
number: 09658726
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150615
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 023 126 filed on Jul. 10 2014 to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 043 916 filed on Aug. 29 2014 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 083 771 filed on Nov. 24 2014 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to capacitive touch sensor arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor electrodes that detect the position of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment a capacitance sensor coupled with a capacitive sensor array can be used to scan the capacitive sensor array by measuring self capacitances associated with each sensor electrode or mutual capacitances between pairs of sensor electrodes. The capacitance sensor may then transmit the measured capacitance values to a host where the capacitance values may be further processed to determine for example locations of fingers or other conductive objects near or touching the surface of the capacitive sensor array. In one embodiment the host compensates for capacitance differences between the regions having different patterns of conductive traces.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor electrode N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor electrode detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a change in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculate high precision locations from the processing device .

The sensor array illustrated in includes sensor electrodes arranged in a diamond pattern. Specifically the sensor electrodes of sensor array are arranged in a single solid diamond SSD pattern. illustrates a capacitive sensor array having an alternate embodiment of the diamond pattern which is the dual solid diamond DSD pattern. Each of the sensor electrodes of capacitive sensor array includes two rows or columns of electrically connected diamond shaped traces. Relative to the SSD pattern the DSD pattern has improved signal disparity characteristics due to an increase in the coupling between TX and RX sensor electrodes while maintaining the same self capacitance coupling possible between each sensor electrode and a conductive object near the sensor electrode. The DSD pattern may also provide higher sensitivity for tracking smaller objects such as the point of a stylus as compared to patterns having larger features such as SSD. However the DSD pattern also increases the number of bridges such as bridge used to create the pattern which may result in decreased manufacturing yield. The increased number of bridges may also be visible if metal bridges are used. For example sensor array includes four bridges within unit cell .

Touch screen assembly includes an LCD over which a glass may be positioned. In one embodiment sensor pattern may be constructed on the surface of glass that faces the LCD . In one embodiment an air gap may separate the glass from the LCD .

In one embodiment a capacitive sensor pattern such as the SSD pattern DSD pattern or other capacitive sensor pattern described herein may include row and column sensor electrodes that can be expressed as a matrix of the intersections between the row and column electrodes. Resolution of these sensor arrays may be represented as the product of the number of columns and the number of rows. For example for a sensor array with N row electrodes and M column electrodes the number of intersections would be N M.

The surface of the capacitive sensor array can be divided into an active sensing region an edge region and a routing region . The active sensing region designates the area of the sensor array that can be used to detect the presence of one or more conductive objects i.e. the area in which the presence of a conductive object can cause a detectable change in capacitance . The edge region of the sensor array includes portions of the sensor array pattern that are outside the active sensing region . The routing region is an area that includes one or more conductive traces. As illustrated in the edge region borders the bottom of the active sensing region and the routing region borders the top edge of the active sensing region . In one embodiment the routing region may also be an edge region. In alternative embodiments the illustrated sensor array pattern may be duplicated to form a larger touch sensing panel so that the routing region is located between two or more active sensing regions.

The capacitive sensor array includes multiple large sensor electrodes and multiple small sensor electrodes that are formed from a single layer of conductive material e.g. copper ITO etc. and that are located within the active sensing region . Each of the small sensor electrodes has a smaller area than any of the large sensor electrodes in the sensor array .

The multiple small sensor electrodes are further divided into multiple sets of small sensor electrodes where each electrode in a set is electrically connected to every other electrode in the same set by a set of connecting traces. For example a first set of twelve small sensor electrodes includes electrodes which are electrically connected to each other. A second set of twelve small sensor electrodes includes the electrically connected electrodes . Capacitive sensor array as illustrated in additionally includes two more sets of electrically connected small sensor electrodes a set that includes electrode and a set that includes electrode . Each of these sets includes twelve small sensor electrodes that are electrically connected by connecting traces.

The capacitive sensor array also includes a set of bonding pads e.g. bonding pads and that are located in the edge region . Each of the four sets of small sensor electrodes is connected to one of the bonding pads for example the set of electrodes is connected to bonding pad and the set of electrodes is connected to bonding pad . In one embodiment the bonding pads provide conductive areas at which wires can be physically bonded. In alternative embodiments the capacitive sensor array may include other types of conductive pads e.g. contact pads instead of bonding pads. In general the pads provide a location at which electrical connections can be established with the sensor electrodes of the sensor array . The capacitive sensor array also includes a ground trace that is connected to a bonding pad in the set of bonding pads located in the edge region . The length of the ground trace runs through the active sensing region between the large sensor electrodes and the small sensor electrodes in the sensor array .

In one embodiment the small sensor electrodes in the sensor array are arranged in rows and columns. For each set of electrically connected small sensor electrodes a subset of the electrodes can be arranged in a row such that an axis can be drawn that crosses two or more of the small sensor electrodes in the subset. For example the set of electrodes includes a subset of sensor electrodes and which are arranged in a row such that an axis crosses each of the electrodes and in the subset. Electrodes and in the same set of electrically connected electrodes are similarly arranged in a different row. As an additional example the set of electrodes includes a subset of sensor electrodes and which are arranged in a row such that an axis crosses each of the electrodes and . Electrodes and in the same set of electrically connected electrodes are similarly arranged in a different row.

In the capacitive sensor array each small sensor electrode of the same electrically connected set is adjacent to a different large sensor electrode. Each large sensor electrode is adjacent to one small sensor electrode from each of the electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the large sensor electrodes in sensor array are arranged in columns such that an axis for each column crosses multiple large sensor electrodes. For example axis that is perpendicular to axes and crosses multiple large sensor electrodes and that are in the same column. In alternative embodiments each column can include more than two large sensor electrodes. As illustrated in each column of large sensor electrodes is adjacent to another column of large sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the small sensor electrodes are arranged in columns so that an axis for each column of small sensor electrodes crosses at least one electrode from each electrically connected set of small sensor electrodes. For example an axis for the column of small sensor electrodes including electrodes etc. is perpendicular to axes and and crosses two small sensor electrodes from each of the four electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes. Thus axis crosses one small electrode from each electrically connected set for each large sensor electrode that is crossed by axis . Other columns of large and small sensor electrodes are similarly arranged.

For each small sensor electrode in the capacitive sensor array the small sensor electrode is located on an opposite lateral side of one of the large sensor electrodes from another small sensor electrode that is in the same electrically connected set. For example the small sensor electrodes and are located on opposite lateral sides of the large sensor electrode i.e. on opposite sides of a central longitudinal axis of the electrode and large sensor electrode . Similarly the small sensor electrodes and that are in the same electrically connected set of small sensor electrodes are located on opposite lateral sides of large sensor electrodes and .

For each small sensor electrode in the capacitive sensor array a shortest line segment that can be drawn between the geometric center of the small sensor electrode and a central longitudinal axis of the nearest large sensor electrode does not cross any other small sensor electrode. For example line segment between the geometric center of the small sensor electrode and the central longitudinal axis of the nearest large sensor electrode does not cross any other small sensor electrode. Line segments similarly drawn between the geometric centers of the other small sensor electrodes and the central longitudinal axes of their respective nearest large sensor electrodes also do not cross any other small sensor electrodes. Such line segments do cross the ground trace since the ground trace is located between the small sensor electrodes and the large sensor electrodes in the sensor array .

While illustrates six columns each of large sensor electrodes and small sensor electrodes in alternative embodiments the illustrated pattern can be extended by additional columns of similarly patterned large and small sensor electrodes connected to the ends of the connecting traces.

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array can be used in electronic system in place of sensor array or can be used in capacitive touch sensing system in place of capacitive sensor array . The capacitance sensor can then be used to measure mutual capacitances between the each of the large sensor electrodes and each of the electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes in the capacitive sensor array . In one embodiment the capacitance sensor measures these mutual capacitances by applying a transmit TX signal to each of the large sensor electrodes and measuring a receive RX signal generated at each of the electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes.

The illustrated arrangement of small sensor electrodes and large sensor electrodes in sensor array results in a grid having 6 columns and 8 rows of unit cells. Each unit cell in the sensor array includes one small sensor electrode and a portion of one adjacent large sensor electrode. In one embodiment the fraction of the large sensor electrode that is included in the unit cell is equal to 1 k where k is the number of electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes. For example unit cell includes one small sensor electrode and of its adjacent large sensor electrode since the capacitive sensor array includes 4 electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes.

The connecting traces in the capacitive sensor array electrically connect the large and small sensor electrodes and the ground trace to bonding pads located in the edge region . The capacitance sensor thus connects to the electrodes in the sensor array through the bonding pads. In one embodiment capacitive sensor array includes no more than one bonding pad for each large sensor electrode in the array one bonding pad for each electrically connected set of small sensor electrodes and one bonding pad for each ground trace.

In one embodiment each of the bonding pads connected to small sensor electrodes may be connected to the small sensor electrodes via multiple connecting traces with each of the multiple connecting traces connected to different small sensor electrodes in the same electrically connected set. For example the bonding pad is connected to small sensor electrode via a connecting trace from the top end of bonding pad and is also connected to a different small sensor electrode via a connecting trace from the bottom end of the bonding pad .

From the bonding pad the connecting traces connected to the top of bonding pad connect the small sensor electrodes and in respective order while the connecting traces connected to the bottom of bonding pad connect the small sensor electrodes and in respective order. The two subsets of small sensor electrodes and and their corresponding connecting traces form two conductive paths each extending from edge region to routing region passing through routing region extending back to edge region and passing through edge region .

The surface of the capacitive sensor array can be divided into an active sensing region an edge region and a routing region . Included in the active sensing region are multiple large sensor electrodes and multiple small sensor electrodes that are formed from a single layer of conductive material. Each of the small sensor electrodes has a smaller area than any of the large sensor electrodes in the sensor array . The multiple small sensor electrodes are further divided into four sets of small sensor electrodes and that are electrically connected by connecting traces.

The capacitive sensor array also includes a set of bonding pads e.g. bonding pads etc. that are located in the edge region . Each of the four sets of small sensor electrodes is connected to one of the bonding pads for example the set of electrodes is connected to bonding pad and the set of electrodes is connected to bonding pad . The capacitive sensor array also includes a ground trace that is connected to a bonding pad in the set of bonding pads located in the edge region . The length of the ground trace runs through the active sensing region between the large sensor electrodes and their adjacent small sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the small sensor electrodes in the sensor array are arranged in rows and columns such that an axis for each row can be drawn that crosses two or more of the small sensor electrodes in an electrically connected set of small sensor electrodes. For example the electrodes are arranged in a row such that an axis crosses each of the four electrodes in the set. Small electrodes in other electrically connected sets are similarly arranged in rows as illustrated in . In alternative embodiments where small electrodes in the same set are arranged in multiple rows an axis for one of the rows may cross only a subset of the electrodes in the set.

In the capacitive sensor array each small sensor electrode of the same electrically connected set is adjacent to a different large sensor electrode. Each large sensor electrode is adjacent to one small sensor electrode from each of the electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes. Each large sensor electrode is adjacent to another large sensor electrode.

In one embodiment the small sensor electrodes are arranged in columns so that an axis for each column of small sensor electrodes crosses at least one electrode from each electrically connected set of small sensor electrodes. For example an axis for the column of small sensor electrodes including electrodes and is perpendicular to axes and crosses a small sensor electrode from each of the four electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes.

For each small sensor electrode in the capacitive sensor array the small sensor electrode is located on an opposite lateral side of at least one of the large sensor electrodes from another small sensor electrode that is in the same electrically connected set. For example the small sensor electrodes and are located on opposite lateral sides of the large sensor electrodes and . Similarly the small sensor electrodes and that are in the same electrically connected set of small sensor electrodes are located on opposite lateral sides of large sensor electrodes and .

While illustrates four columns each of large sensor electrodes and small sensor electrodes in alternative embodiments the illustrated pattern can be extended by additional columns of similarly patterned large and small sensor electrodes connected to the ends of the connecting traces.

The illustrated arrangement of small sensor electrodes and large sensor electrodes for sensor array results in a grid having 4 columns and 4 rows of unit cells. Each unit cell in the sensor array includes one small sensor electrode and a portion of one adjacent large sensor electrode. In one embodiment the fraction of the large sensor electrode that is included in the unit cell is equal to 1 k where k is the number of electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes. For example unit cell includes one small sensor electrode and of its adjacent large sensor electrode since the capacitive sensor array includes 4 electrically connected sets of small sensor electrodes.

The connecting traces in the capacitive sensor array electrically connect the large and small sensor electrodes and the ground trace to bonding pads located in the edge region . The capacitance sensor connects to the electrodes in the sensor array through the bonding pads. In one embodiment capacitive sensor array includes no more than one bonding pad for each large sensor electrode in the array one bonding pad for each electrically connected set of small sensor electrodes and one bonding pad for each ground trace.

For each subset of electrically connected small sensor elements a conductive path through the small sensor elements in the subset and their connecting traces extends from one of the bonding pads in the edge region to the routing region opposite the edge region and back to the edge region . For example the connecting traces from the bonding pad connect the small sensor electrodes and in respective order. The set of small sensor electrodes and its corresponding set of connecting traces form a conductive path that extends from edge region to routing region passes through routing region extends back to edge region and passes through edge region .

In contrast with sensor array the bonding pads in the edge region that are connected to small sensor electrodes are connected via a connecting trace at one end of the bonding pad rather than at multiple ends. In one embodiment since connecting traces are routed from only one end of each bonding pad no connecting traces are routed between any of the bonding pads in the edge region . Thus the bonding pads for the small and large sensor electrodes can be positioned closer together for a more compact connector.

The sensor array includes multiple transmit TX and receive RX sensor electrodes in an active sensing region . In the capacitive sensor array each of the TX and RX sensor electrodes are composed of multiple subelements which are in the shape of diamonds or half diamonds i.e. triangles . In particular each of the RX sensor electrodes e.g. or that is not at an edge of the sensor array includes a diamond shaped subelement and two half diamond shaped subelements while RX sensor electrodes e.g. or at an edge of the sensor array include two half diamond shaped subelements. TX sensor electrodes away from an edge of the sensor array are composed of two diamond shaped subelements while TX sensor electrodes at an edge of the sensor array are composed of two half diamond shaped subelements.

The TX and RX electrodes in the array are arranged so that the TX electrodes are offset in a vertical direction relative to the nearest adjacent RX electrodes. In particular a line segment between the geometric centers of an RX electrode and an adjacent TX electrode is not perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the column in which the RX or TX electrode is located. In one embodiment the smaller angle between such a line segment and the longitudinal axis of the column is between 50 and 70 degrees.

In addition the points of the diamond shaped subelements of the offset TX and RX electrodes are interleaved. Accordingly for each TX or RX sensor electrode a line segment can be drawn between two points in the same electrode such that the line segment also crosses a portion of the adjacent electrode. For example the line segment can be drawn between two subelements of RX electrode such that line segment crosses a portion of the adjacent TX electrode .

In one embodiment each TX sensor electrode is adjacent to four RX sensor electrodes thus each unit cell e.g. unit cell in the sensor array includes of the area of a TX sensor electrode and of the area of an adjacent RX sensor electrode assuming the TX and RX electrodes are not located at an edge of the array .

In the sensor array each column of RX sensor electrodes may include multiple sets of electrically connected RX electrodes. Column for example includes two sets of electrically connected RX electrodes a set including electrodes and a set including electrodes and . Alternate electrodes are connected to each other via connecting traces with the connecting traces for the two sets located on opposite lateral sides of the column . In one embodiment the connecting traces follow the edges of the RX electrodes in the column to allow interleaving of the adjacent TX electrodes.

For each column of TX sensor electrodes each TX sensor electrode in the column is electrically isolated from every other TX sensor electrode in the column. Each of the TX sensor electrodes are thus connected via separate connecting traces to separate bonding pads in the edge region . For each TX sensor electrode in the column the connecting trace that connects the TX sensor electrode to its corresponding bonding pad extends from the TX sensor electrode along one lateral side of the column towards the edge region . In one embodiment the connecting traces follow the edges of the TX electrodes in the column to allow interleaving of the adjacent RX electrodes.

TX electrodes in the same column that are sequential in order have connecting traces located on opposite lateral sides of the column of TX electrodes. For example TX sensor electrodes and are sequential in the spatial order of TX electrodes in column thus the connecting trace for electrode and the connecting trace for electrode are routed along opposite sides of a central longitudinal axis of column .

The connecting traces in the capacitive sensor array electrically connect the TX and RX sensor electrodes and the ground traces to the bonding pads located in the edge region . The capacitance sensor connects to the electrodes in the sensor array through the bonding pads. In one embodiment capacitive sensor array includes no more than one bonding pad for each TX sensor electrode in the array one bonding pad for each electrically connected set of RX sensor electrodes and one bonding pad for each ground trace.

In the foregoing embodiments various modifications can be made for example row sensor electrodes and column sensor electrodes may be interchanged and row or column sensor electrodes may be used as either TX or RX sensor electrodes. Furthermore in some embodiments intersections between row and column sensor electrodes may be replaced with conductive bridges. For example bridges may be used to electrically connect portions of sensor electrodes when both row and column sensor electrodes are constructed from a single layer of conductive material. As described herein conductive electrodes that are electrically connected or electrically coupled may be coupled such that a relatively low resistance conductive path exists between the conductive electrodes.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

