---

title: Reduced toxicity screening smoke producing composition using lithium perchlorate
abstract: A reduced toxicity baseline screening smoke composition and method includes a mixture of lithium perchlorate and boron. The mixture may further include a burn rate modifier and any of an inorganic chloride coolant and a carbonate coolant. The lithium perchlorate may be in the range of 75% to 95% parts by weight. The boron may be in the range of 5% to 25% parts by weight. The any of an inorganic chloride coolant and a carbonate coolant may be in the range of 5% to 25% parts by weight. The mixture may include boron oxide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09650308&OS=09650308&RS=09650308
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09650308
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150312
---
The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments herein generally relate to a screening smoke composition and more particularly to a screening smoke composition of reduced toxicity.

The most common screening smoke composition known as HC is a blend of zinc or zinc oxide powder aluminum and hexachloroethane. It is generally an effective smoke producing composition based on the production of toxic zinc chloride. In one particular formulation the aluminum reacts with the zinc oxide to form zinc metal which in turn reacts with the chlorine atoms in the hexachloroethane to form zinc chloride. The exiting zinc chloride captures water from the atmosphere which greatly increases the amount of apparent smoke produced by a given weight of the starting weight of the smoke composition. This water capturing ability is the characteristic of the composition to be most effective.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a reduced toxicity baseline screening smoke composition comprising a mixture of lithium perchlorate and boron. The mixture may further comprise a burn rate modifier and any of an inorganic chloride coolant and a carbonate coolant. The lithium perchlorate may be in the range of 75 to 95 parts by weight. The boron may be in the range of 5 to 25 parts by weight. The any of an inorganic chloride coolant and a carbonate coolant may be in the range of 5 to 25 parts by weight. The mixture may include boron oxide.

Another embodiment provides a method of consolidating a reduced toxicity baseline screening smoke composition the method comprising creating a mixture of lithium perchlorate and boron. The method may further comprise mixing a burn rate modifier and any of an inorganic chloride coolant and a carbonate coolant in the mixture. The lithium perchlorate may be in the range of 75 to 95 parts by weight. The boron may be in the range of 5 to 25 parts by weight. The any of an inorganic chloride coolant and a carbonate coolant may be in the range of 5 to 25 parts by weight. The method may further comprise mixing boron oxide in the mixture. The method may further comprise inserting the mixture at loading pressures between 2 500 and 5 000 pounds per square inch into a canister. The method may further comprise inserting the mixture at loading pressures between 5 000 and 7 500 pounds per square inch into a canister. The method may further comprise inserting the composition into any of a canister of a grenade a smoke pot a mortar round a shoulder fired missile and an artillery round.

Another embodiment provides a method of consolidating a reduced toxicity baseline screening smoke composition the method comprising creating a mixture comprising lithium perchlorate in the range of 75 to 95 parts by weight and boron in the range of 5 to 25 parts by weight. The method may further comprise mixing in the mixture a burn rate modifier and any of an inorganic chloride coolant and a carbonate coolant in the range of 5 to 25 parts by weight in the mixture. The method may further comprise mixing boron oxide in the mixture. The method may further comprise inserting the mixture at loading pressures between 2 500 and 5 000 pounds per square inch into a canister. The method may further comprise inserting the mixture at loading pressures between 5 000 and 7 500 pounds per square inch into a canister.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there are shown preferred embodiments which comprise a new screening smoke composition of reduced toxicity that is produced without the use of organic liquids which add to air pollution and contain specific chemicals to increase its long term shelf life. The screening smoke composition comprises a mixture of lithium perchlorate and boron. The mixture utilizes lithium perchlorate as the oxidizer and chlorine donor and produces a two smoke cloud devoid of zinc chloride. The use of boron as the fuel results in the production of lithium chloride an effective compound during the water absorption phase of the burning reaction. The composition produces boron oxide BO and lithium chloride LiCl . A virtually undetectable amount of boron trichloride BCl and chlorine gas may be by products of the composition . The chemical reaction for the production of the smoke cloud comprises a two reactant two product system. The boron powder reacts immediately with the oxygen in the lithium perchlorate producing a combination of boron oxide and of lithium chloride.

The ratios of the components a the composition can be varied in such a manner as to adjust the overall rate of the chemical reaction which is represented by the burning rate for a pressed block of smoke producing composition. Additional coolants may be added to the composition to affect its burning rate as well as provide an additional quantity of smoke by using the heat drawn from the main chemical reactions to vaporize and recondense the coolant materials. Coolants such as lithium carbonate can add further to the smoke cloud density.

The embodiments herein provide a reduced toxicity screening smoke composition using lithium perchlorate and boron. The composition is completely devoid of the toxic zinc chloride found in conventional smoke formulations containing primarily zinc and or zinc oxide as the main constituent for the production of a toxic zinc chloride smoke cloud. The smoke composition is suitable for pressing into canisters of compacted powder at a load pressure range of 2 500 to 7 500 psi.

When pressed into larger canisters suitable for use in a mortar or artillery shell the composition is pressed at a suitable loading pressure that exceeds the setback force on the canister during the flight to the target area. The base composition produces large quantities of smoke when pressed to pressures of 5 000 psi.

The screening smoke producing composition may be consolidated at loading pressures between 2 500 and 5 000 pounds per square inch into a canister of smoke grenade size totaling approximately 2.3 inches in diameter and between approximately 4.5 and 6.0 inches in height. Additionally the screening smoke producing composition may be consolidated at loading pressures between 2 500 and 5 000 pounds per square inch into a canister of smoke pot size ranging from approximately 6.0 inches in diameter and nominally approximately 8.0 inches in height to approximately 12.0 inches in diameter and nominally approximately 13.0 inches in height. Furthermore the screening smoke producing composition may be consolidated at loading pressures between 2 500 and 5 000 pounds per square inch into a single or multiple canisters totaling approximately 2.75 inches in diameter and between approximately 7.5 and 9.0 inches in height for use in an 81 mm or similar mortar payload configuration. Moreover the screening smoke producing composition may be consolidated at loading pressures between 5 000 and 7 500 pounds per square inch into a single or multiple canisters of smoke artillery size totaling approximately 5.0 inches in diameter and nominally approximately 21.0 inches in height for use in a 155 mm projectile.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

