---

title: Systems and method for making gameplay changes based on social networking polls
abstract: Various exemplary embodiments are provided to make gameplay changes to a video game based upon a social networking poll or question. These embodiments use the social networking poll to control and organize gaming client feedback and provide gameplay changes based on the gaming client feedback. The various exemplary embodiments also allow a gaming client to receive updates to his or her gaming client device that reflect the gaming client feedback.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474966&OS=09474966&RS=09474966
owner: EPIC GAMES, INC.
number: 09474966
owner_city: Cary
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150504
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 838 345 filed Mar. 15 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 716 045 filed Oct. 19 2012 entitled Systems and Methods for Making Gameplay Changes to a Video Game Based Upon Social Networking Polls to Joseph James Graf and Stephen Lynn Superville. The contents of these priority applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to systems and method for making gameplay changes to a video game based upon a social networking poll or question.

Players of games often have feedback that they would like the game developers to hear and act upon. The delivery of this feedback can be disorganized spread across numerous forums and online communities making it difficult for the feedback to be heard and acted upon. Additionally the game developers cannot control the conversation that it may be narrowly focused on choices that affect the game. Due to these issues there is not a suitable mechanism for polling the game community for the direction the community would like the game developers to take the game balancing. These and other drawbacks exist.

Various exemplary embodiments assist the community as a whole in focusing the disparate conversations about the game balancing and design choice by using social networks and social graph application programming interfaces APIs in order to obtain feedback directly affecting a game. These embodiments allow a game developer to frame a question or poll on a social network and define the options and choices that players of the game may cast a vote on.

These embodiments further allow a system to read the game players interactions with the poll s or question s from the social network using a social graph API and apply the results of the poll s or question s to make changes to the relating game.

The following description is intended to convey a thorough understanding of the embodiments described by providing a number of specific embodiments and details involving systems and methods for providing gameplay changes to a video game based upon a social networking poll or question. It should be appreciated however that the present disclosure is not limited to these specific embodiments and details which are exemplary only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art in light of known systems and methods would appreciate the use of the invention for its intended purposes and benefits in any number of alternative embodiments depending on specific design and other needs.

Various exemplary embodiments provide for making gameplay changes to a video game based upon a social networking poll or question.

In various embodiments the term game server may refer to the networked computer or groups of computers that process the global game event state.

In various embodiments the term social network may refer to the media software systems and networks that allow users interact socially.

In various embodiments the term social graph API may refer to the API for manipulating the social network objects. This API may manage connections between objects and the information of how those objects relate.

A system and method may include various exemplary embodiments for making gameplay changes based on social networking polls and or other forms of user member feedback. The system and method may include a game developer device game server game client community member device and a social network system all connected over a network. The system and network may further include the development and administration of a social networking poll in a polling module of a social networking system. A social networking poll or survey may include a description of gaming situations such as for example gaming challenges gaming scenarios and gaming levels game play options such as for example character options character attribute options difficulty options bonus options and booster options and or any game related question. A social network system may also include a social graph module that provides and determines a social networking graph of all network members including network member connections and network member information. Network member information may include for example member name member e mail address member birthdate member location data and member gaming information such as for example games owned games played and played games data. Played games data may include game s played how often a member plays a game game options purchased game levels attained game character usage game points attained game length played a number of friends that play a game game usage and social data and the like.

A member of the social network system may publish a social networking poll for making gameplay changes through the polling module where the polling module may then receive network member responses to the published poll. Other forms of member interaction and or member feedback may also be considered in accordance with the various embodiments of the present invention. In addition to receiving network member responses the polling module of the social network system may record network member information along with the associated network member response. The member who published the social networking poll may select a predefined time for the end of a poll or may choose to end the poll at any chosen time. Once the poll has been closed the results of the poll may then be sent to the game server where the results may be calculated based on a selected results calculation type. The calculated results may then be provided to a gaming module within the game server where gameplay changes may be made based on the calculated results. Upon providing the gameplay changes community members may be able to play use and or watch gameplay changes via the gaming module at the game server.

Referring now to the drawings is a schematic diagram illustrating a system for making gameplay changes to a game based upon a social networking poll or question. The system may include a game developer device a social network system a game server a game client and a community member device . Examples of social networking systems include without limitation systems that operate the sites of Facebook MySpace Google LinkedIn Twitter Pinterest etc. For purposes of this disclosure the game developer device and game server are separate components. However the game developer device and game server may also be combined into one component capable of performing all the actions of the game developer device and the game server .

Each of these devices or systems may include a network enabled computer system and or devices. As referred to herein a network enabled computer system and or device may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser a game server a gaming console or other device. The network enabled computer systems may execute one or more software applications to for example receive data as input from an entity accessing the network enabled computer system process received data transmit data over a network and receive data over a network. The one or more network enabled computer systems may also include one or more software applications to enable making gameplay changes to a video game based upon a social networking poll or question as described herein.

The components depicted in may be coupled via one or more networks such as for example network . Network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively coupled. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computer executable software firmware hardware or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device or may be included in both devices.

The social network system may include a polling module and a social graph module . A polling module may include hardware and software components required to receive polling data from a community member device when a community member desires to publish a poll regarding gameplay a game server when a game owner desires to publish a poll regarding gameplay and or a game developer device when a game developer desires to publish a poll regarding gameplay. A polling module may further include hardware and software components required to publish a social networking poll to a social networking site. A polling module may include hardware components required to receive polling results from a community member device when a social network community member participates in a poll. Moreover a polling module may include hardware and software components required to associate community member data including social graph data from data storage not pictured within the social network system and or a social graph module .

The social network system may also include a social graph module . A social graph module may include hardware and software components to determine social relationships between social network community members. For example a social network community member may have a first degree connection with another social network community member who has granted access to his or her account. As another example a first social network community member may have a second degree connection with a second social network community member when the second social network community member is a first degree connection with a first degree connection of the first social network community member. Varying degrees of connection may exist across all social network community members based on the number of connections that are between a first social network community member and a second social network community member.

The game server may include a result module and a gaming module . A result module may include hardware and software components to calculate the results of a social network poll provided by the social network system. The result module may for example tally the results by adding the results of a particular poll result together to obtain a result total. The result module may also employ a variety of weighting methods such as for example weighting a result based on whether or not a social network community member participates in a poll. Participation in a poll may include providing commentary on a poll or a polling result providing a link to a social network poll via the social network system or a second social network system not shown sharing a social network poll with another social network community member s and or providing support to a social network poll via a like heart high five or the like. The result module may also weight a result using an in game and or backend ranking system so that a response from a social network community member who attaches his or her social network name to his or her selected result may be more heavily weighted than a response from a social network community member who responds anonymously. The result module may also weight a result using social graphing data provided by the social graph module . For example where a first social network member provides a response and then through participating in the poll as described above is able to solicit a poll response from a second social network member the first social network member s response may be more heavily weighted. The results module may further weigh results based on a social network member s current location a social network member s home location played games data and or any other network member information stored in the social network system. The results may be provided to the game server along with the social network poll results. The results module may also include the hardware and software required to transmit the results to the social network system . The social network system may then notify poll participants of the result and whether the poll participant s choice was selected as the result in the result module .

The gaming module may include hardware and software components to receive the social network polling results from the result module once the result module has calculated the results. The gaming module may include hardware and software components to incorporate a winning result into a game so that community members may be able to play use and or watch gameplay changes. Gameplay changes may include additional gaming challenges additional gaming scenarios and additional gaming levels additional character options additional character attribute options additional difficulty options bonus options and or booster options. Gameplay changes may further include unlocking communal gaming content and or a dynamic alteration of prices and or availability of goods in a game.

Referring to which is a flow chart illustrates social network polling and gaming according to a particular embodiment the process begins with the development of a poll or question at the game developer device community member device and or game server step . The poll or question may include predetermined responses to the poll or question along with identifiers for each of the responses to the poll or question. The poll or question that was developed on the game developer device game server and or community member device may then be transmitted over the network to a social network system step . Once the poll or question has been transmitted to the social network system step the social network system may then publish the poll or question such that the poll or question is visible to the community that uses the social network via a community member device step . A game developer device may also be a community member device when a game developer is also a member of the social network housed on the social network system . Moreover a game developer device community member device and a game client device may be the same device.

Each community member belonging to the social network may then interact with the social network system via his or her community member device in order to send a response to the question or poll to the social network system over the network step . A community member may belong to a social network by registering for that social network by responding to an invitation to join the social network or the like. Each response from each community member device is also stored within a polling module step . The interaction between the community member device and the social network system may be available to the game server and other components via social graph APIs.

The responses and any community member data may be transmitted to a server where the responses and or community member data may be stored in a result module or a data storage unit not shown step . Each response and or identifier may be associated with a specific gameplay option. At any time the creator of the poll or question may terminate the poll or question or conversely the poll or question may terminate at a configurable time interval step . A poll or question may terminate once a predefined number of votes are received. For example a poll or question may terminate upon receiving votes. Response may be sent to a game server on any interval such as hourly daily or weekly or may be sent once a poll or question has concluded. Once the poll or question has concluded a result module may analyze and calculate a winning gameplay option based on the responses and or community member data transmitted from the social network system step . Various calculation and determination methodologies are described herein with reference to the result module . The game changing option associated with the winning selection may then be prepared in a gaming module at the game server step so that wining gameplay option may be available to any requesting client at his or her respective game client device . The requesting client may download and or access the winning gameplay response and or options via a game client device connected to a game server over a network step .

It is to be understood that the steps of the method may proceed in the above order. However the steps of the process may also proceed in a different order and may incorporate other steps as necessary to achieve gameplay changes to a video game based upon a social networking poll or question.

Referring to the flow of information between the components of the system is illustrated. It is further noted that methods described herein may operate using software. The software may be tangibly embodied in one of more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers processors etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components bay be combined or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions e.g. the software that configures the computer operating system to perform the operations described above may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further any data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium i.e. the memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by a computer.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

