---

title: Electronic device and network temporary unlocking method thereof
abstract: An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication interface configured to transmit a network temporary unlock request and receive a network temporary unlock approval. The electronic device also includes a processor configured to perform a network temporary unlock when the approval of the network temporary unlock is received, and release the network temporary unlock when a network temporary unlock time has expired by determining whether the network temporary unlock expiration time has come.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456349&OS=09456349&RS=09456349
owner: 
number: 09456349
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150520
---
The present application is related to and claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2014 0096830 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jul. 29 2014 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and more particularly to a method for temporarily unlocking a network in an electronic device.

Recently thanks to a remarkable development of information and communication technology and semiconductor technology the prevalence and use of various electronic devices is rapidly increasing. Especially recent electronic devices have been developed to be able to communicate while being carried on the body. A user receives a communication service by subscribing to the network which the user wants among various networks in order to communicate using the electronic device. Typically the electronic device is mostly equipped with a network lock function at the time of release. Also referred to as a factory lock a network lock is a function which may limit the use from the rest of networks except a particular network among networks.

When an electronic device is equipped with a network lock function a communication service can be received only through a specific network provider. For example when a network lock is established for the electronic device to use a network of provider A only then a user cannot use a network of provider B via the electronic device. Therefore in order for another network other than a specific network to be used the state of the electronic device should be switched from the network locking state to the network unlocking state. The electronic device may use another network other than a specific network under the state of network unlock.

However the conventional network unlock provides only a permanent unlock function in which the state of network unlock once becomes the state of network unlock is maintained permanently until the state is switched to network lock. Therefore there is a problem that the electronic device cannot temporarily use another network other than a specific network.

It is a primary object to provide an electronic device capable of temporarily using another network other than a specific network and a temporary unlocking method in the electronic device. Further various embodiments of the present disclosure are to provide an electronic device capable of preventing a forgery or alteration through the user input in a network temporary unlock which temporarily allows the use of another network other than a specific network and a temporary unlocking method in the electronic device. At least one of the aforementioned aspects of the present disclosure can be achieved by configurations described herein.

In a first example an electronic device includes a communication interface configured to transmit a network temporary unlock request and receive a network temporary unlock approval. The electronic device also includes a processor configured to perform a network temporary unlock when the approval of the network temporary unlock is received and release the network temporary unlock when a network temporary unlock time has expired by determining whether the network temporary unlock expiration time has come.

In a second example a method for unlocking a network in an electronic device is provided. The method includes transmitting a network temporary unlock request and receiving a network temporary unlock approval. The method also includes performing a network temporary unlock when the network temporary unlock approval is received. The method further includes determining whether a network temporary unlock expiration time has come. The method includes releasing the network temporary unlock when the network temporary unlock time has expired.

In a third example a storage medium storing a network temporary unlock program that when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device cause the one or more processors to transmit a network temporary unlock request and receiving a network temporary unlock approval perform a network temporary unlock when the network temporary unlock approval is received determine whether a network temporary unlock expiration time has come and release the network temporary unlock when the network temporary unlock time has expired. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible for another network other than a specific network to be used temporarily for a predetermined period by providing a temporary unlock function in an electronic device having a network lock function which allows only a specific network to be used.

Moreover various embodiments of the present disclosure are capable of preventing a forgery or alterations through the user input during a temporary unlock which allows the temporary use of another network other than a specific network in the electronic device.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Hereinafter the terms include or include which is used in various embodiments of the present disclosure refer to the presence of disclosed functions operations or elements and do not restrict the addition of one or more functions operations or elements. In the present disclosure the terms such as include or have is construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the expression or or at least one of A or and B includes any or all of combinations of words listed together. For example the expression A or B or at least A or and B includes A includes B or includes both A and B. The first or the second used in various embodiments of the present disclosure modify various elements of embodiments and may not restrict the corresponding elements. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing an element from the other elements. For example both a first electronic device and a second electronic device are electronic devices and the first and second electronic devices refers to electronic devices of different users or different devices of the same user. For example both a first electronic device and a second electronic device are electronic devices and the first and second electronic devices refers to electronic devices of different users or different devices of the same user. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first component element is named a second component element. Similarly the second component element also is named the first component element.

It should be noted that if it is described that one component element is coupled or connected to another component element the first component element is directly coupled or connected to the second component and a third component element is coupled or connected between the first and second component elements. Conversely when one component element is directly coupled or directly connected to another component element it is construed that a third component element does not exist between the first component element and the second component element.

The terms in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used to describe a specific embodiment and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is a device with a communication function. For example the electronic device includes at least one of a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device such as a head mounted device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to some embodiments the electronic device is a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as an example of the electronic device include at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box such as SAMSUNG HOMESYNC APPLE TV or GOOGLE TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device includes at least one of various medical devices such as a magnetic resonance angiography MRA a magnetic resonance imaging MRI a computed tomography CT machine and an ultrasonic machine navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDR flight data recorders FDR vehicle infotainment devices electronic devices for ships such as navigation devices for ships and gyro compasses avionics security devices automotive head units robots for home or industry automatic teller s machines ATMs in banks or point of sales POS in shops.

According to some embodiments the electronic device includes at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various types of measuring devices for example a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like including a camera function. An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is a combination of one or more of above described various devices. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is a flexible device. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Meanwhile the electronic device receives GPS signals from at least three satellites or GPS and reflects a margin of error occurring in each of the received signals and then obtains time information by correcting a time error and location error based on three or more values for location information.

The electronic device determines whether a temporary unlock expiration time has come by using the obtained time information. Further according to an embodiment the electronic device when the external time information is not received performs a timer discount by creating a timer which discounts time remaining up to the obtained temporary unlock expiration time and determines whether the temporary unlock expiration time has come by using the timer. The electronic device in operation releases the network temporary unlock as the temporary unlock expiration time has come. According to an embodiment the electronic device releases the temporary unlock and then return to the state of network lock.

The processor for example receives instructions from other components for example the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface through the bus analyzes the received instructions and executes calculations or data processing according to the analyzed instructions. According to an embodiment the processor executes calculations or data processing required for a state of temporary unlock.

The memory stores instructions or data received from or created by the processor or other elements such as the input output interface the display and the communication interface . The memory includes programming modules for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and applications . Each of the aforementioned programming modules is formed of software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources such as the bus the processor or the memory used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API or the applications controls or manages the individual components of the electronic device while accessing the individual components.

The middleware serves as an intermediary who allows the API or the applications to communicate with the kernel so as to exchange data. Furthermore in regard to task requests received from the applications the middleware performs a control such as scheduling or load balancing for the task requests using a method of allocating at least one application of the applications a priority for using the system resources such as the bus the processor and the memory of the electronic device .

The API is an interface through which the applications controls functions provided by the kernel and the middleware and includes at least one interface or function such as an instruction for file control window control image processing or text control. According to various embodiments the application includes an SMS MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application a network unlock application for performing a temporary unlocking of the network lock or an environment information application such as an application that provides atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information or the like and the like. Additionally or alternately the applications include an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device such as an electronic device . The application related to the exchange of information includes for example a notification relay application for transferring predetermined information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application includes a function of transferring to the external electronic device such as the electronic device notification information generated in other applications of the electronic device such as a network unlock application a health care application an SMS MMS application an e mail application and an environment information application . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application receives the notification information from for example the external electronic device such as the electronic device and provides the received notification information to a user. For example the device management application manages such as install delete or update functions for at least a part of the external electronic device such as the electronic device communicating with the electronic device such as turning on off the external electronic device itself or some elements thereof or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display applications operating in the external electronic device or services such as a telephone call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments the applications include an application set on the basis of an attribute for example a type of the electronic device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the applications include an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications include an application related to health care. Similarly when the external electronic device is an electronic device capable of a temporary unlock the application includes an application related to the temporary unlock. According to an embodiment the applications includes at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from the external electronic device for example a server or the electronic device .

The input output interface transfers instructions or data input from a user through an input output device such as a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory and the communication interface through for example the bus . For example the input output interface provides the processor with data for a user s touch input through the touch screen. In addition the input output interface may through the input output device such as a speaker or a display output instructions or data received from the processor the memory or the communication interface through for example the bus . For example the input output interface outputs voice data which is processed through the processor to a user through a speaker. The display displays various pieces of information for example multimedia data or text data for the user.

The communication interface connects communication between the electronic device and the external device such as the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface is connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication includes at least one of for example Wi Fi BLUETOOTH BT Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication for example Long Term Evolution LTE Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile communication GSM . The wired communication includes at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network is a telecommunication network. The communication network includes at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things or a telephone network. According to one embodiment a protocol such as a transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device is supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

According to an embodiment the server supports the driving of the electronic device by performing at least one operation or function implemented in the electronic device . For example the server supports a temporary unlock implemented on the electronic device . The Subscriber Identification Module SIM card is also detachably attached to the electronic device in a plug in type and also is embedded in a built in type. Such a SIM card stores SIM information. The SIM information includes information for activating the electronic device and subscriber information such as a user password as well as information for a network registration. According to an embodiment the SIM card is also a User Identity Module UIM and a Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM .

A processor includes a communication processor and an application processor . The communications processor controls the communication interface and the application processor controls the execution of the application. The communication processor and the application processor is also implemented by being integrated into a single processor . One of either the communication processor or the application processor or the integrated processor performs a temporary unlock operation according to the embodiment. In the following exemplary embodiment an example of executing the temporary unlock operation by the integrated processor will be described.

The processor is controlled to require a temporary unlock to the server through the communication interface according to a temporarily unlock request which is input by the user. In addition the processor may if the temporary unlock approval is received from the server establish the locked state of the electronic device to the temporary unlocked state. The processor is controlled to use the SIM card for only a predetermined period by the temporary unlock regardless of whether the SIM card is a specific network that is permitted in advance by the network lock when the SIM card is connected to the processor in a state of temporary network unlock.

The processor determines in the state of network lock whether the temporary unlock expiration time has come by utilizing the time information obtained using an external signal or by utilizing an internal timer. According to an embodiment the processor when an external signal is received obtains time information by utilizing the received external signal and determines whether the unlock expiration time has come by utilizing the obtained time information. For example the processor obtains time information by utilizing a Network Identity and Time Zone NITZ signal received from the base station and determines whether the unlock expiration time has come by utilizing the obtained time information. According to another example the processor reflects a margin of error occurring in each of the received signals by utilizing GPS signals received from at least three satellites or GPS and then based on the values for three or more location information obtains time information by correcting a time error and position error and determines whether the temporary unlock expiration time has come by utilizing the obtained expiration time.

According to an embodiment the processor when an external signal is not received creates a timer to discount time remaining up to the temporary unlock expiration time and performs a timer discount to determine whether the temporary unlock expiration time has come. According to an embodiment the time remaining up to the temporary unlock expiration time is calculated based on the time information upon receiving the first temporary unlock approval or is calculated based on the time information by the external signal received last after receiving the temporary unlock.

The processor as the temporary unlock time has expired releases the temporary unlock and return to the network locked state. The processor if the network locked state has been returned determines whether the SIM card is a SIM card which uses a particular network permitted in advance by the network lock and control to use the SIM card which uses the particular network permitted in advance.

A memory includes a secure area . The secure area is a security area being accessed allowed only by the processor . The time value that is discounted by a timer is stored in the secure area of the memory . As the time value discounted by a timer is stored in the secure area the temporary unlock period is not forged or altered by the user and the security is maintained.

According to an embodiment the electronic device when the SIM card is connected to the processor in a state of the network temporary unlock is allowed to be able to use the SIM card up to the temporary unlock expiration time regardless of whether the SIM card is a specific network that is permitted in advance by the network lock. According to an embodiment the network unlock expiration time is stored in the secure area of the memory . As the network unlocks expiration time is stored in the secure area of the memory a forgery or alteration by the user is prevented.

The electronic device in operation determines whether the external signal capable of acquiring time information is received. According to an embodiment the external signal capable of acquiring time information is a Network Identity and Time Zone NITZ signal from the base station or GPS signals from three or more satellites or GPS . According to an embodiment the electronic device determines whether a Network Identity and Time Zone NITZ signal from the base station or GPS signals from three or more satellites or GPS are received.

The electronic device in operation obtains time information using the external signal. According to an embodiment the electronic device obtains the time information by using the NITZ signal received from the base station . According to an embodiment the electronic device reflects a margin of error occurring in each of the received signals by using GPS signals received from at least three satellites or GPS and then obtains time information by correcting a time error and position error based on the values for three or more location information.

The electronic device in operation compares the obtained time information and network temporary unlock expiration time. The electronic device in operation as a result of the comparison determines whether network temporary unlock expiration time has come. According to an embodiment the electronic device determines whether the network temporary unlock expiration time has come when the obtained time information is equal to a network temporary unlock expiration time or the obtained time information is a time that exceeds an expiration time of the network temporary unlock. The electronic device when the temporary unlock expiration time has come in operation releases the network temporary unlock. According to an embodiment the electronic device returns to the network lock state when the temporary unlock is released.

The electronic device determines whether the SIM card is a SIM card capable of using a particular network permitted in advance by the network lock and is allowed to be able to use only in the SIM card capable of using a particular network. Meanwhile the electronic device when the external signal capable of acquiring time information is not received in operation sets the discount timer based on the time remaining up to the network temporary unlock expiration time. According to an embodiment the electronic device sets the discount timer that is discounted at a predetermined time interval such as 1 second interval in the time remaining up to the network temporary unlock expiration time. According to an embodiment the time remaining up to the temporary unlock expiration time is calculated based on the time information upon receiving the first temporary unlock approval or is calculated based on time information of external signal received last after receiving the temporary unlock approval.

The electronic device performs a timer discount in operation and determines whether the timer has expired in operation . According to an embodiment the electronic device determines that the timer has expired when the timer value has become discounted to 0 at a predetermined time interval such as 1 second interval in the time remaining up to the network temporary unlock expiration time. According to an embodiment as the timer value being discount is stored in the secure area of the memory and forgery or alteration by the user is prevented.

The electronic device when the timer expires then the process proceeds to operation releases the network temporary unlock. According to an embodiment the electronic device returns to the network locked state when the temporary unlock is released. The electronic device when network temporary unlock expiration time has not yet come or a timer has not expired returns to operation . According to the network temporary unlock operation of the electronic device as described above the electronic device determines the expiration of the network temporary unlock by using an external signal or determine by using an internal timer. It is convenient that the electronic device determines the temporary unlock expiration time by using the internal timer when the external signal cannot be received because the external signal and the internal timer are utilized together by the electronic device .

If the user input corresponds to the selected network temporary unlock application and the electronic device as shown in displays the network temporary unlock application screen . When a CONTINUE in the network temporary unlock application screen is selected by the user the electronic device requests a connection with the server and displays a guidance message indicating that is being connected with the server as shown in . When the electronic device is connected with the server the electronic device displays options on a display screen as shown in . The options include a Permanent Unlock option and a Temporary Unlock option . If a Temporary unlock option is selected by the user the electronic device requests the network temporary unlock to the server and as shown in displays a guidance message indicating that the network temporary unlock request to the server is in progress.

The AP controls a plurality of hardware or software elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and process various types of data including multimedia data and perform calculations. The AP may for example be implemented as a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP further includes a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module such as the communication interface transmits and or receives data in communication between the electronic device such as the electronic device and other electronic devices such as the electronic device or the server connected through a network. According to one embodiment the communication module includes a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call a message service or an Internet service through a communication network such as LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . In addition the cellular module identifies and authenticates the electronic device in a communication network using for example a subscriber identification module such as the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module performs at least some functions which the AP provides. For example the cellular module performs at least a portion of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment the cellular module includes a Communication Processor CP . In addition the cellular module is implemented by for example an SoC. Although the elements such as the cellular module such as the communication processor the memory and the power management module are illustrated as separate components from the AP in the AP is implemented to include at least some such as the cellular module of the aforementioned elements according to one embodiment.

According to one embodiment the AP or the cellular module such as the communication processor loads in a volatile memory instructions or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other elements connected thereto and process the loaded instructions or data. In addition the AP or the cellular module stores in a non volatile memory data received from or created by at least one of other elements.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module includes for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as separate blocks in at least some such as two or more of them is contained in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package according to one embodiment. For example at least some of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module such as the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and the WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module is implemented by one SoC.

The RF module transmits and or receives data such as an RF signal. The RF module includes for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. In addition the RF module further includes a component such as a conductor or a conductive wire for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave in a free space in wireless communication. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of them transmits and or receives an RF signal through a separate RF module according to one embodiment.

According to one embodiment the electronic device is connected to a companion device such as the electronic device through the Wi Fi module the BT module or the NFC module . In addition the electronic device accesses a base station such as the server through the cellular module and is connected to a host device such as the electronic device through the base station.

The SIM card is a card including a subscriber identification module and is inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information such as Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information such as International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory such as the memory includes an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory includes at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment the internal memory is a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory further includes a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory is functionally connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device further includes a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard disc drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information to an electrical signal. The sensor module includes for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H such as Red Green and Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module includes for example an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an Infrared IR sensor an iris sensor and a fingerprint sensor. In addition the sensor module includes a Heart Rate Variability HRV sensor or a Heart Rate Monitor HRM sensor. The sensor module further includes a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module .

The input device includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input through at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an ultrasonic type. The touch panel further includes a control circuit. The capacitive type touch panel recognizes physical contact or proximity. The touch panel further includes a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a tactile reaction to the user.

The digital pen sensor is implemented for example using the same or similar method to receiving a user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet. The key includes for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device detects an acoustic wave using a microphone such as a microphone and identifies data in the electronic device through an input tool for generating an ultrasonic signal and performs wireless recognition. According to one embodiment the electronic device also receives a user input from an external device such as a computer or a server connected thereto using the communication module .

The display such as the display includes a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel is for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED or the like. The panel is implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel is configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram device shows a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector projects light onto a screen to display an image. The screen is located for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display further includes a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface is included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface includes for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module bilaterally converts a sound and an electrical signal. At least some components of the audio module are included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module processes sound information input or output through for example the speaker the receiver the earphones the microphone or the like.

The camera module captures still images and moving images. According to one embodiment the camera module includes one or more image sensors such as a front sensor and a rear sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash such as an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . The power management module includes for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC is mounted to for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods are classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC charges a battery and prevents over voltage or over current from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. Examples of the wireless charging method includes a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type or an electromagnetic wave type and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit or a rectifier circuit is added.

The battery gauge measures for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery includes for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays a particular status of the electronic device or a part thereof such as the AP for example a booting status a message status or a charging status. The motor converts an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. The electronic device includes a processing unit such as a GPU for supporting a mobile TV function. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV processes media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

The above described components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are formed of one or more components and a name of a corresponding component element is changed based on the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure includes one or more of the aforementioned components or further includes other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure are combined to form a single entity and thus equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements prior to the combination.

The module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of the hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component element or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

According to various embodiments at least a part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be embodied by for example a command stored in a computer readable storage medium in a form of a programming module. When the command is executed by one or more processors such as the processor in the one or more processors may perform a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory in . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented such as executed by for example the processor in . At least a part of the programming module may for example include a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing at least one function.

The computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disc a floppy disc and a magnetic tape optical media such as a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and a digital versatile disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specifically configured to store and execute program commands such as a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM and a flash memory. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A module or a programming module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the described component elements a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a storage medium storing instructions or program for executing an operation in an electronic device is provided. The instructions include transmitting a network temporary unlock request and receiving a network temporary unlock approval. The instructions also include performing a network temporary unlock when the network temporary unlock approval is received. The instructions further include determining whether a network temporary unlock expiration time has come. The instructions include releasing the network temporary unlock when the network temporary unlock time has expired.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

