---

title: Systems, methods and programs for detecting unauthorized use of text based communications services
abstract: Systems, methods, and programs for generating an authorized profile for a text communication device or account, may sample a text communication generated by the text communication device or account during communication and may store the text sample. The systems, methods, and programs may extract a language pattern from the stored text sample and may create an authorized profile based on the language pattern. Systems, methods, and programs for detecting unauthorized use of a text communication device or account may sample a text communication generated by the device or account during communication, may extract a language pattern from the audio sample, and may compare extracted language pattern of the sample with an authorized user profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491179&OS=09491179&RS=09491179
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property II, L.P.
number: 09491179
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150922
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 973 666 filed Aug. 22 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 749 487 filed on Jan. 24 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 548 811 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 548 534 filed on Jul. 13 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 386 253 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 220 filed on Dec. 23 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 244 532 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The use of streaming text messaging and short text message systems is steadily increasing as a method of electronic communication. As the number of devices capable of such communication and the number and size of such service providers increases the more such devices and service accounts are being accessed and exploited by unauthorized users for example to impersonate the authorized user obtain free communication steal an authorized user s identity and or to cheat at online gambling.

Conventionally methods are available to evaluate text based on models to predict a source of the text. For example such methods are employed in Bayesian type email filters used to detect spam e mail. Such a system is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 161 130.

Systems and methods have been proposed to identify the unauthorized use of mobile voice communication systems for example by sampling portions of the audio communication originating from a mobile device and building an authorized user profile based on audio patterns within the audio samples. Then subsequent audio patterns are compared with the authorized user profile to determine whether or not an authorized user is using the device. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 189 783.

Exemplary systems methods and programs disclosed herein may determine language patterns within text communication such as short text messages for example by sampling all or part of text communications. The systems methods and programs may build an authorized profile based on the determined language patterns and then evaluate all or part of subsequent text communications based on the authorized profile to determine whether a current user of the messaging device or account is the authorized user and or whether a current sender of a communication to the messaging device or account is an imposter.

Exemplary systems methods and programs for generating an authorized profile for a text communication device or account may sample one or more text communications and may store the text samples. The systems methods and programs may extract a language pattern from the stored text samples and may create the authorized profile based on the language pattern.

Exemplary systems methods and programs for detecting unauthorized use of a text communication device or account may sample a text communication may extract a language pattern from the text sample and may compare the extracted language pattern of the sample with an authorized profile.

According to one or more of the following examples short text messages may include for example instant messaging IM messages sent using the short message system SMS and or e mail messages.

According to one or more of the following examples devices capable of sending and or receiving short text messages may include for example cell phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs combination devices e.g. voice and e mail internet gaming and or global positing system GPS personal handyphone systems PHS personal computers laptop computers and or a client or server of a wired or wireless network such as an extranet an internet the Internet and in particular the world Wide Web WWW .

The network may include for example a wired or wireless network such as for example one or more of a wired telephone network a wireless telephone network an intranet an extranet a local area network a wide area network a storage area network and or the Internet. Where the network is a telephone network wired or wireless or a large scale computer network such as the Internet only that portion of the network that receives text samples and transmits them to and or between the message authentication system and or the end user device may be part of the system .

Alternatively all or part of the message authentication system may be included within the end user device in which case the network need not be included in the system .

In general operation the unauthorized use detection system may be based on messages sent by the end user account or device . The message authentication system may collect one or more text samples of a text message sent by the device and may develop an authentic user profile for the user of the device. The authentic user profile may be based on one or more language patterns obtained by evaluating the one or more text samples of the primary user. The authentic user profile may then be used to determine whether or not messages sent from the end user account or device are being authored by the primary user.

Alternatively the unauthorized use detection system may be based on messages received by the end user account or device . The message authentication system may develop an authentic sender profile for each correspondent that the end user communicates with frequently. Each frequent correspondent may be identified by for example an associated address such as an instant messaging screen name IP address telephone number and or an email address. For each correspondent s address the message authentication system may collect one or more text samples received from that address. Then the message authentication system may develop an authentic sender profile for the address based language patters obtained by evaluating the text samples received from the frequent correspondent. In this manner as described below the authentic sender profiles may be used by the device to detect imposters attempting to send a message using a frequent correspondent s account or device.

As used herein the term language patterns is intended to encompass for example at least one or more representations of individual or sequences of characters alpha numeric punctuation white space characters etc. words emoticons icons phrases phonemes syllables and or numbers. The language pattern may for example consist of a stochastic n gram language model or may consist of something as simple as a collection of words and phrases. The authentic user profile need not be tied to the grammar of the text message e.g. separately evaluating the rules governing the order of the words rather the sample may include the patterns of words characters etc. such as for example used in Bayesian filters. In this manner the authentic user profile may be language independent and doesn t necessarily require complex grammar evaluation models.

A useable authentic user profile or authentic sender profile may be based on as few as one sample a useable authentic profile may be based on a predetermined number of samples or a developed authentic profile may be considered usable when variations between one or more of the respective language patterns included in the profile are within predetermined statistical tolerances. Furthermore a single sample may consist of a part of a message or of the entire message. Thereby the sampling may consist of the entire contents of all messages transmitted until the system has determined that a sufficient number of samples have been collected.

In the case in which the system is based on messages sent by the end user account or device once the authentic user profile is determined the message authentication system may continue to sample text from the text messages sent by the end user mobile device . For the case in which the system is based on messages received by the end user account or device the message authentication system may continue to sample text from the text messages received by the end user device .

In either or both cases these subsequent samples for example may be taken from each message every predetermined number of transmissions or at random. Again a sample may consist of a part of a message or of the entire message. The message authentication system may then evaluate one or more of the subsequent samples in a similar manner as above to extract language patterns and compare the extracted language patterns with the authentic user profile to determine if the primary user authored the subsequent samples or compare the extracted language patterns with the authentic sender profile associated with the message sender s address to determine if the frequent correspondent authored the subsequent sample.

If based on the evaluation the message authentication system determines that the primary user did not author one or more of the subsequent samples the message authentication system may determine that the end user device or the authorized user s text messaging account is being used by an unauthorized user. If based on the evaluation the message authentication system determines that the frequent correspondent associated with the address from which the message was sent did not author one or more of the of the subsequent samples sampled from messages originating at that address the message authentication system may determine that the frequent correspondent s account or device is being used by an imposter.

In either or both cases this determination may be made based on as few as one subsequent sample. Alternatively the determination may be made if a predetermined percentage of a predetermined number of subsequent samples is determined to have been authored by an unauthorized user and or imposter.

In the case in which the system is based on messages sent by the end user account or device based on the determination that the end user device or the user s text messaging account is being used by an unauthorized user the device s service may be for example suspended and the primary user may be notified by an alternate channel that the device or password to an account has been lost or stolen. Furthermore if the device is equipped with GPS its location may be determined. Alternatively the device s stationary location may be identified by an IP address. As a result the unauthorized user s location may be provided to the user and or reported to the police.

For the case in which the system is based on messages received by the end user account or device based on the determination that the frequent correspondent s end user device or account is being used by an imposter the user of the end user device may be alerted for example in a manner hidden to the imposter that they may be communicating with an impostor. This alert may be signaled to the recipient s end user device by a text message or other alert from the message authentication system or by sending a signal that for example opens a warning message on the recipient end user device s screen.

While shows system using bus architecture any type of hardware architecture including wired and wireless networks may be used based on implementation details. For example memory and network interface may be individually connected to controller . Also these hardware components may be implemented using any available hardware technology such as FPGA PAL application specific integrated circuits ASICs etc.

As shown in the memory may be physically functionally and or conceptually divided into for example an authentic profile portion and or a recent text samples portion . The authentic profile portion may store the language patterns included in the authentic user profile and or the authentic sender profiles. The recent text samples portion may store text sampled from recent usage of the end user device or the user s text message account.

The memory shown in can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable memory and or non alterable memory. The alterable memory whether volatile or non volatile can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic RAM a removable disk and disk drive a writeable or re writeable optical disk and disk drive a hard drive and or flash memory. Similarly the non alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM and or an optical ROM disk such as CD ROM or DVD ROM disk.

The language analyzer may input a text sample and determine the various language patterns within the text sample. The language analyzer may also compare language patterns of one text sample with the language patterns within the authentic user profile and determine whether the sample was authored by the primary user of the device and or account or may compare language patterns of one text sample with the language patterns within the authentic sender profile and determine whether the sample was authored by an imposter.

The text sampler may input for example a text message stream a text message or a packet of a concatenated message and extract text samples representative of the message. The samples may be for example taken from a particular part of a message. For example at the beginning of a text message certain greetings are commonly used thereby allowing the language patterns to be derived from a portion of the message communicating a similar user intent. However because the system compares language patterns of a text message rather than relying on specific words the text samples may be taken at any point in the message irrespective of the meaning of the words written.

The network interface may allow one or more of the elements of the system to communicate with a network such as for example network .

In general there are two phases of operation of the exemplary unauthorized use detection system the authentic user and or sender profile preparation phase and the unauthorized use detection phase. During the authentic user and or sender profile preparation phase under control of the controller a text stream message or packet originating from to develop an authenticated user profile or received by to develop an authenticated sender profile the end user device or the user s account is input to the text sampler for example via the network interface . Under control of the controller the text sampler samples a portion or portions of the message and stores the sampled portion s in the recent text samples portion . Alternatively the sampled portion s may be input directly into the language analyzer . The language analyzer may access the text samples provided by the text sampler and may extract language patterns from the samples. Representations of the language patterns under control of the controller may then be stored in the authentic user sender profile portion

In the case in which the system is based on messages sent by the end user account or device the sampled text may be only that portion of the text message authored by the user. For example only the text generated by the associated end user device may be included in the sample. Similarly only the text generated by the user s account may be included in the sample.

For the case in which the system is also or alternatively based on messages received by the end user account or device the sampled text may be only that portion of the text message authored by the party with whom the user is communicating For example only the text received by the associated end user device may be included in the sample. Similarly only the text received by the user s account may be included in the sample.

Any subsequent text samples generated from subsequent messages may also stored in the recent text samples portion and the language patterns extracted from the samples may be stored in or used to update the authentic profile portion . The subsequently extracted language patterns may be separately stored for each text message or may be used to modify the previously stored profile to develop for example a statistical distribution of occurrence of phrases of a given length for example 2 words long or 3 words long across many samples.

The above process may be repeated by the system until it is determined that the pattern representations stored in the authentic profile portion are sufficient to identify the authentic user s language patterns in additional samples when developing an authentic user profile and or the pattern representations stored in the authentic profile portion are sufficient to identify a particular frequent correspondent s language patterns in additional samples when developing one or more authentic sender patterns . For example the profile s may be considered sufficient when a predetermined number of samples have been collected and analyzed when the standard deviation among sampled patterns from the profile s is within a certain range and or when the number of new words or phrases detected per transmission falls below a threshold. If the language patterns were stored separately for each sample upon the determination that the patterns are sufficient to identify the authorized user or a frequent correspondent the patterns may be reduced by consolidating similar patterns into a single representative pattern with associated an occurrence score. When the authentic user profile and or one or more authentic sender profiles are created the system may enter the second phase of operation.

In the case in which the system is evaluating messages sent by the end user account or device during the unauthorized use detection phase a text stream message or packet sent from the user s end user device and or originating from the user s account are input under control of the controller to the text sampler . Under control of the controller the text sampler samples the message and stores at least one sample of the message in the recent text samples portion . Alternatively the sample s may be input directly to the language analyzer . A sample may consist of the whole or of a part of the text stream message or packet. Under control of the controller the language analyzer may access a recent sample and the authentic user profile and may compare the language patterns within the recent sample to the representations of language patterns in the authentic user profile.

Under control of the controller based on the comparison the language analyzer may determine whether the recent sample was authored by the authorized user. If the language analyzer determines that the recent sample was not authored by the authorized user under control of the controller the sample may be stored in the recent text samples portion with an indication that the sample is not authored by the authorized user. If the language analyzer determines that the recent sample was authored by the authorized user under control of the controller the sample may be stored in the recent text samples portion with an indication that the sample was authored by the authorized user. Alternatively only the indication may be stored and the sample may be discarded.

When for example a certain number of samples and or indications have been evaluated and stored in the recent text samples portion or a certain amount of time has passed under control of the controller the authorization tester may access the stored recent samples and determine whether the authorized user has been the primary user of the mobile end user device and or the user s text message account. The determination may be made based on for example whether a percentage of the stored samples that are determined to be authored by someone other than the authorized user exceeds a predetermined limit. Under control of the controller the determination may be output for use by for example a service provider.

For the case in which the system is based on messages received by the end user account or device during the unauthorized use detection phase a text stream message or packet received by the user s end user device and or received by the user s account are input under control of the controller to the text sampler . Under control of the controller the text sampler samples the message and stores at least one sample of the message in the recent text samples portion . Alternatively the sample s may be input directly to the language analyzer . A sample may consist of the whole or of a part of the text stream message or packet. Under control of the controller the language analyzer may access a recent sample and the authentic sender profile corresponding to the address from which the recent sample was sent and may compare the language patterns within the recent sample to the representations of language patterns in the authentic sender profile.

Under control of the controller based on the comparison the language analyzer may determine whether the recent sample was authored by the frequent correspondent associated with the authentic sender profile. If the language analyzer determines that the recent sample was not authored by the frequent correspondent under control of the controller the sample may be stored in the recent text samples portion with an indication that the sample is not authored by the frequent correspondent. If the language analyzer determines that the recent sample was authored by the frequent correspondent under control of the controller the sample may be stored in the recent text samples portion with an indication that the sample was authored by the frequent correspondent. Alternatively only the indication may be stored and the sample may be discarded.

When for example a certain number of samples have been evaluated and stored in the recent text samples portion or a certain amount of time has passed under control of the controller the authorization tester may access the stored recent samples and or indications and determine whether the frequent correspondent has been the primary message sender associated with the frequent correspondent s address. The determination may be made based on for example whether a percentage of the stored samples and or indications that are determined to be authored by someone other than the frequent correspondent exceeds a predetermined limit. Under control of the controller the determination may be output for use by for example a service provider.

An exemplary method for developing an authorized user profile and or authorized sender profile is shown in . The exemplary method may be implemented for example by one or more components of the above described systems . However even though the exemplary structure of the above described systems may be referenced in the description of the method it should be appreciated that the referenced structure is exemplary and the exemplary method need not be limited by any of the above described exemplary structure.

As shown in in step it is determined whether enough text samples generated by the user device in the case of an authorized user profile or received from a particular address in the case of an authorized sender profile have been collected. If enough samples have been collected the authorized user sender profile may be considered complete and in step operation ends. If enough samples have not been collected operation continues to step . The determination of whether enough samples have been collected may be made for example based on the total number of samples an elapsed time or one or more statistical properties of the profile is within a predetermined limit. In step it is determined whether the device and or account is being used in text communication. Once the device is being used in text communication operation continues to step .

In step a text sample is taken from the current text communication. In a case in which an authentic user profile is being developed for example a text stream message or packet originating from the end user device or the user s account is sampled. In a case in which an authentic sender profile is being developed for a particular address for example a text stream message or packet originating from the address and received by the end user device or the user s account is sampled. Then in step the text sample is evaluated to extract language patterns within the sample. Next in step the language patterns extracted from the sample are for example stored to create an authorized user sender profile or used to update an existing authorized user sender profile. Operation of the method returns to step and repeats until enough samples have been collected.

An exemplary method for evaluating text messages is shown in . The exemplary method may be implemented for example by one or more components of the above described systems . However even though the exemplary structure of the above described systems may be referenced in the description of the method it should be appreciated that the referenced structure is exemplary and the exemplary method need not be limited by any of the above described exemplary structure.

As shown in the method begins in step where it is determined whether an end user device and or user s account is being used in text communication. Once the device account is being used in text communication in step a portion of the communicated text message is sampled. In the case in which a user of the end user device is being evaluated the text sampled will be the text generated by the end user device and or user s account. In the case in which the party with whom the user is communicating is being evaluated the text sampled will be the text received by the end user device and or user s account. Operation continues to step .

In step the sampled text is evaluated to extract language patterns within the sample. Then in step the language patterns extracted from the sample may be stored. In step it is determined whether enough samples have been evaluated and their language patterns stored. For example this determination may be made on the total number of samples or an amount of time that has elapsed since a previous evaluation of stored samples. If enough samples have not been collected operation returns to step . If enough samples have been collected operation continues to step where the stored language patterns within the samples are compared with an authorized profile. In the case in which a user of the end user device is being evaluated the stored patterns are compared with the authorized user profile. In the case in which the party with whom the user is communicating is being evaluated the stored samples are compared with the authorized sender profile corresponding to the address from which the samples were taken.

In either or both cases for example the number of samples that constitutes enough samples may be set to one. In this way each sample may be compared to the authorized user sender profile and an evaluation of the user or sender s authenticity may be performed on each transmission.

For example each sample s language patterns may be compared with the patterns in the authorized user profile or authorized sender profile to determine whether the sample and thus the associated communication was authored by the respective authorized user or frequent correspondent. The comparison may be made within certain statistical tolerances for example based on the reliability of the authorized user profile. For example if the profile is rather new that is based on only a few samples then the comparison may allow for a larger deviation from the profile to be considered a match. Similarly if the profile is based on many samples then the comparison may only allow for a smaller or no deviation from the profile to be considered a match.

Then evaluated samples maybe evaluated to determine for example what percentage of the total number of samples represent communications by the authorized user in the case of evaluating the user or for example what percentage of the total number of samples from a frequent correspondent s address represent communications by the frequent correspondent in the case of evaluating the party with whom the user is communicating . In the case in which a user of the end user device is being evaluated if a predetermined percentage of the samples were not authored by the authorized user then it may be determined that someone other than the authorized user is using the end user device and or user s text message account. In the case in which the party with whom the user is communicating is being evaluated if a predetermined percentage of the samples were not authored by the frequent correspondent then it may be determined that someone other than the frequent correspondent is using the frequent correspondent s device and or text message account. In step operation of the method ends.

It should be appreciated that according to the above example once the stored samples are evaluated they may be discarded in order for another group of samples to be collected. Alternatively upon evaluation only the oldest sample may be discarded. Then once the next sample is obtained and evaluated the stored samples may be evaluated in effect creating an oldest out newest in rolling group of samples. Alternatively samples may not be stored. Rather the samples may be evaluated immediately and only the results of the evaluation may be stored.

It should also be appreciated that according to the above example the order of the steps is not strict and for example the samples may each be evaluated prior to being stored.

As a result of the above exemplary systems methods and programs it is possible to determine the likelihood that a text message enabled end user device and or user account is not being used by the primary authorized user. Thus when it is determined that the end user device and or account is not being used by the primary authorized user the primary authorized user and or the police may be notified and or provided with the location of the device if it is equipped with a GPS receiver.

Alternatively or additionally as a result of the above exemplary systems methods and programs it is possible to determine the likelihood that messages sent to a text message enabled end user device and or user account from a frequent correspondent s address are not being sent by the frequent correspondent. Thus the user of the device i.e. the message recipient may be notified that the sender of the message may be an impostor.

However with respect to developing an authorized user profile it is possible that an end user device and or text message account may have more than one authorized user. For example it is possible that a spouse sibling friend co worker etc. may use the device account and the primary user may not want to be notified of their use. Accordingly exemplary systems methods and programs may allow a second or subsequent user to be considered an authorized user of the device account.

For example an additional user authorization mode may be provided in which the second or subsequent user may actively provide text samples that will be used to create a second authorized user profile. Alternatively upon notification that there will be a second user the systems methods and programs may attempt to evaluate each sample that is obtained and based on the samples language patterns group the samples by user. Then based on the grouped samples individual user profiles may be provided for each user. Thus any number of users may be registered as authorized users.

It should be appreciated that the above exemplary methods and programs may be configured to evaluate only messages sent from an associated end user device or account to evaluate only messages received by an associated end user device or account or to evaluate both messages sent from and received by an associated end user device or account.

It should also be appreciated that the authentic user profile and or authentic sender profiles need not be stored within the end user device. Rather the profiles may be stored for example on a server operated by a message service provider and connected to the network . In this respect an authentic user profile for the end user device or account may be used as an authentic sender profile for another device with which the end user device or account communicates and or the authentic user profile for another device or account with which the end user device or account communicates may be used as an authentic sender profile for the end user device or account.

Furthermore even if the authentic user profiles are stored within the end user devices a stored authentic user profile associated with a sender device may be for example sent in the background along with a message from that device or accessed by a recipient device and then stored and or used as an authentic sender profile by the recipient device.

While various features have been described in conjunction with the examples outlined above various alternatives modifications variations and or improvements of those features and or examples may be possible. Accordingly the examples as set forth above are intended to be illustrative. Various changes may be made without departing from the broad spirit and scope of the underlying principles.

