---

title: Automatic determination of caller identification data in outgoing calls
abstract: Automatic determination of caller identification information and encoding of such information in outgoing data requests, such a API calls to a call management component, are disclosed herein. The caller identification information may be determined by analyzing information associated with a call target to determine if the target has a custom outbound telephone number assigned, was contacted through a specific campaign, has local geographic data, is being called from a specific entity, or is being made from a call originator with a specific outbound number set. The system may execute machine learning on previous calling data in order to update caller identification selection models used for other outgoing calls.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338289&OS=09338289&RS=09338289
owner: Velocify, Inc.
number: 09338289
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151030
---
This application claims priority from provisional U.S. Pat. App. No. 62 185 509 filed on Jun. 26 2015 and provisional U.S. Pat. App. No. 62 208 298 filed on Aug. 21 2015 and provisional U.S. Pat. App. No. 62 239 162 filed on Oct. 8 2015 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Inclusion of caller ID informant in outgoing telephone calls whether made to from an analog digital voice over IP or other type of communication device has become increasingly widespread in view of its ability to provide information to a call recipient that may be useful by the call recipient in determining how to prepare for a particular call prior to answering or whether to even answer the particular call.

The systems methods and devices described herein each have several aspects no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes. Without limiting the scope of this disclosure several non limiting features will now be described briefly.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure provide improvements to various communication technologies such as multi party telephonic communications. These improvements include for example systems and methods for automatically selecting caller ID information such as by a machine learning algorithm and transmitting that caller ID information to a call recipient s device in order to increase likelihood of conveying the appropriate message to the recipient via the caller ID information e.g. to get the recipient to answer the call in many cases . Caller ID information may be stored in databases and indexed for selection by a target management system in real time for inclusion in an outgoing telephone call. Thus particular caller ID information may be selected and encoded in a call initiated via a data package sent to a call management component such that it can be decoded by a telephony device such as a mobile device or voice over IP device for display to the user. Furthermore processing of audio electrical signals such as multiple voices on a call may be performed in order to gain intelligence on attributes of a multi party call and possibly implement changes to the call such as adding an additional party to the call or updating a caller ID selection algorithm that may be used in later determinations of caller ID information for similar calls.

Various systems and methods disclosed herein are inextricably tied to computer technology and telephony systems. For example various embodiments rely on detection of user inputs via user interfaces real time access to databases automatic selection of caller ID information API calls to call initiation components e.g. that initiate calls to multiple parties and or electronic manipulation of signals across computer and or telephony systems. Furthermore initiating telephone connections across phone lines including voice over IP in some embodiments is intimately tied to and enabled by computer technology and would not exist except for computer technology. For example selecting an outbound telephone number in real time based on various factors such as those discussed below and setting caller ID information on an outgoing telephone call through use of an API and a third party call generation service in some instances cannot be performed by humans alone without the computer and electronic technology upon which they are implemented. Improvements on existing use of caller ID information in telephone calls of all types are disclosed herein. Further the implementation of the various embodiments of the present disclosure via computer technology enables many of the advantages described herein including more effective selection of outbound telephone numbers to include in caller ID and customization of processes by which particular callers can program the system to automatically select caller ID information further optimizing technology associated with a calling system especially a calling system that handles a high volume of outbound calls where determination of caller ID information can significantly impact efficiency of initiating calls.

In one embodiment an automated caller identification selection system initiating connections with a multi party connection interface comprises a target management computing system having one or more hardware computer processors in communication with a non transitory computer readable medium storing a caller id selection algorithm. In one embodiment the caller id selection algorithm is executable by the computer processors to execute a prioritization algorithm on a plurality of user records to identifying a particular user record having a current highest priority determine an IP address associated with the user record the IP address associated with an electronic device of the user that was used to communicate with an online entity determine a geographic identifier associated with the IP address based on the geographic identifier determine a particular telephone number having a similar geographic identifier in a database of available telephone numbers and initiate an API call to a call management component the API call including the particular telephone number and an electronic destination address included in the particular user record. In one embodiment the call management component comprises a call initiation algorithm configured to transmit an encoded call initiation data sequence to the electronic destination address the encoded call initiation data sequence including the particular telephone number encoded as caller identification information and the call initiation data sequence further monitors a connection with the electronic destination address and when the user responds to the call initiation data sequence associating the connection with an online multi party connection interface.

Although certain particular embodiments and examples are disclosed below inventive subject matter extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses and to modifications and equivalents thereof. Thus the scope of the claims appended hereto is not limited by any of the particular embodiments described below. For example in any method or process disclosed herein the acts or operations of the method or process may be performed in any suitable sequence and are not necessarily limited to any particular disclosed sequence. Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding certain embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent. Additionally the structures systems and or devices described herein may be embodied as integrated components or as separate components. For purposes of comparing various embodiments certain aspects and advantages of these embodiments are described. Not necessarily all such aspects or advantages are achieved by any particular embodiment. Thus for example various embodiments may be carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other aspects or advantages as may also be taught or suggested herein.

Embodiments of the inventions are described with reference to the accompanying figures wherein like numerals refer to like elements throughout. The terminology used in the description presented herein is not intended to be interpreted in any limited or restrictive manner simply because it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the inventions. In addition embodiments of the inventions can comprise several novel features and no single feature is solely responsible for its desirable attributes or is essential to practicing the inventions herein described.

Caller identification information transmitted through phone systems provides a call recipient with information about the individual or entity making a call to the recipient. Some telephone systems such as PBX Private Branch Exchange phone systems allow for outbound calls made from multiple phones within an organization to utilize the same outbound caller identification information. Other calling systems use predefined or assigned caller ID information for each particular device. For example a call from a first user s voice over IP VOIP phone may always user caller ID information 123 456 7890.

In order to facilitate an understanding of the systems and methods discussed herein a number of terms are defined below. The terms defined below as well as other terms used herein should be construed broadly to include the provided definitions the ordinary and customary meaning of the terms and or any other implied meaning for the respective terms. Thus the definitions below do not limit the meaning of these terms but only provide exemplary definitions.

Database refers to a database e.g. RDBMS or SQL database or may refer to any other data structure such as for example a comma separated values CSV eXtendible markup language XML TeXT TXT file flat file spreadsheet file and or any other widely used or proprietary format.

Caller ID number a telephone number associated with an outgoing call to a call target. For a particular call the Caller ID number is transmitted with the outgoing call such that the call target can determine the Caller ID number and display it on a computer screen or telephone display of the call target. In some embodiments caller ID numbers are encoded in outgoing data in various manners. For example a digital call to a call target may encode a caller ID number in a manner different than caller ID numbers are encoded in outgoing analog calls.

CNAM information CNAM data or CNAM value alphanumeric text that is associated with a telephone number such as the name of an individual or company associated with a Caller ID number. The CNAM information and or the Caller ID number may be displayed on a phone receiving a call e.g. a call target as discussed below . The owner of a telephone number can update the CNAM information associated with the telephone number in one or more CNAM databases that include the CNAM information. For example an individual or business can purchase telephone numbers and then request typically with a payment to the CNAM database provider particular CNAM information be associated with each telephone number. Some telephone numbers may have no CNAM information while others may have associated CNAM data. For example an individual that owns a number e.g. 123 456 7890 may have his name set as the CNAM data e.g. John Smith such that when a telephonic device receives a call with that number in the Caller ID number the device can retrieve from one or more CNAM databases CNAM data indicating the owner s name and display the CNAM data on the receiving telephonic device.

Caller ID information or Caller IDs a Caller ID number e.g. sent with a telephone call and or CNAM information e.g. customizable information associated with a telephone number that is looked up by the call receiver from one or more databases . While a Caller ID number and CNAM data each provide information about an incoming call they typically are different pieces of information from different sources. Generally the Caller ID number e.g. a phone number of a caller is included in the outgoing call while the CNAM information is not. Instead the CNAM information is looked up from one or more databases that store associations between telephone numbers and CNAM information. This lookup of CNAM information may be performed by the phone carrier of the call target or by a third party service used by the call target and then the CNAM information may be displayed alongside the Caller ID number in some cases.

Call Originator an individual and or phone system that originates a call to a call target. For example a call originator may be a voice over IP VOIP phone cell phone landline phone or computer executing telephony software. In some embodiments a computing system e.g. the target management system discussed below serves as an intermediary between a call originator and a call target by for example initiating a call to the call target and a call to the call originator possibly after a connection is made with the call target and connecting the two calls together so that the call target and call originator may communicate with one another via a phone call e.g. by placing the two calls in a conference room . Thus in some embodiments even though a call originator e.g. an individual and his cell phone may not dial the number of the call target that the call originator wishes to contact but instead receives a call from the target management system that connects the cell phone with a call to the call target that individual and or his cell phone may still be considered the call originator in this disclosure.

Call Target an individual and or phone system that receives a call from a call originator. For example a call target may be a voice over IP VOIP phone cell phone landline phone or computer executing telephony software. As noted above in some embodiments a computing system e.g. the target management system discussed below serves as an intermediary between a call originator and a call target by for example initiating a call to the call target and a call to the call originator and connecting the two calls together so that the call target and call originator may communicate with one another via a phone call.

Transfer Entity an individual and or phone system to which an existing call between a call originator and call target is transferred. For example a transfer entity may receive a call from the target management system and be added to an ongoing call between a call originator and call target e.g. to create a three way call and or the transfer entity may replace the call originator on the call e.g. so that that call target is then connected to the transfer entity s telephony device . In some embodiments a call with a call target may be transferred multiple times to multiple transfer entities.

In some embodiments a target management system has a plurality of caller identification selection processes that enable a user to define a number of ways to select a preferred caller ID number to use with an outbound call. For example the system may allow an entity to provide customized caller ID preferences for automatic selection of a particular caller ID selection method to be used for particular outbound calls or groups of calls . Thus in some embodiments caller ID preferences may define a hierarchical arrangement of various Caller ID selection methods such as the following Caller ID selection methods 

In some embodiments the caller ID preferences may include a hierarchy of multiple caller ID types and corresponding selection methods that are used for outbound calls. In some embodiments an administrator may adjust the hierarchy to meet preferences of the administrator a company an agent and or a specific product or campaign. These hierarchal preferences for determining a caller ID type that may then be automatically applied by the target management system such that the appropriate caller ID selection method can be quickly selected and executed to select a particular caller ID e.g. caller ID number and or CNAM data for use in each outbound call or group of calls in some implementations . For example when a call originator selects a user interface option to initiate a call the caller ID management system may determine and apply the appropriate caller ID preferences e.g. a hierarchy and or rule based association of caller ID types associated with a particular marketing campaign select and execute the appropriate caller ID selection method to determine a particular caller ID for the outbound call and initiate the call using that determined caller ID number in real time. Thus complex rules for selecting an appropriate caller ID number may be processed in a matter of 0.2 5 seconds such that the call originator can efficiently use the caller identification management system without significant lapse of time between requesting a call and initiation of the phone call using the dynamically selected caller ID number.

In some embodiments the target management system may be configured to automatically generate or modify caller ID preferences based on a model for predicting and determining rules and or hierarchy of one or more caller ID types. For example instead of a set hierarchy the caller ID preferences may be determined and or modified based upon analysis of the rate of calls answered by targets the return of calls answered by targets and or by other metrics associated with previous calls. In some embodiments the target management system may determine different metrics for different customers campaigns products and or offerings. For example if a call target is associated with a mortgage vertical e.g. is to be contacted for purposes of attempting to initiate a mortgage with the call target the system may use different caller ID preferences e.g. a first caller ID type hierarchy or selection model than if the target is associated with an education vertical e.g. a second caller ID type hierarchy or selection model . In some embodiments the system may also analyze the known attributes of a target to determine an appropriate caller ID type to use. For example feedback from call success rates may be used to adjust how certain attributes are weighted toward one type of caller ID or another.

Among other caller ID preferences that may be selectable for use by the caller identification management system caller ID numbers may be selected based on a geographic information associated with a particular call target such as by a location caller ID selection method. Use of such geographically relevant caller ID information such as a local telephone number to a particular call target may increase likelihood of the call target answering the phone call. Additionally a local telephone number may provide a non long distance number for a target to call back to which may increase the likelihood of the target calling back. For example a target may be more likely to call back to a number that may not incur long distance telephone charges or is more likely to be from somebody known to the target. In addition an individual may be more likely to answer or respond to a local number than to a number from a distant region or from a toll free unknown number. In some embodiments geographic data associated with a call target may be a current location of the call target even if that current location is not the expected residence location e.g. as included in a lead record of the call target. For example an IP address and or other identification information received with a lead e.g. in a lead record that includes information regarding a call target may be translated to a geographic location such as via an integrated or third party IP to geographic location lookup service. Thus a caller ID number may be selected to appear to be from the determined geographic location of the lead. For example if an individual is on vacation and browsing the Web for a particular service information regarding the individual s device e.g. a mobile phone may be captured by a web site and provided to the caller ID management system. If the device information includes an IP address or other information that can be used to determine a current location of the individual the location caller ID type may determine a caller ID number that is local to the individual s determined current location. Depending on the embodiment such location information may be utilized by the location caller ID selection method based on certain criteria such as only when the location information is fresh e.g. less than 1 day old . In some embodiments the geographic data used for selection of a local caller ID number may be other locations that are not the call target s residence location. For example the location caller ID selection method may be configured such as by a particular requesting entity to use a residence work or school location as the geographic data from which the caller ID number is determined. Such variance in geographic data usage beyond just the call targets home location or home area code may achieve increased response rates either when used in an initial contact attempt e.g. if prioritized as such by the requesting entity and or in subsequent contact attempts that use different caller ID numbers.

In some embodiments the target management system may also manipulate the caller ID information that is displayed to the call originator. For example the target management system may initiate calls by initiating a telephone call to a phone for example VOIP cell phone wired line or the like to the call originator before initiating a call to the call target or the calls may be initiated concurrently or to the target initially and then to the call originator in other embodiments . In certain situations a call may be originated by the call target as an inbound call to the target management system which can then distribute the call with custom caller ID as discussed further below to a call agent in real time.

In order to better indicate to the call originator the type status quality and or other attributes of a call the target management system may set a specific caller ID which informs the call originator of additional information about the call. For example the call originator may recognize that certain caller ID numbers indicate inbound calls some indicate scheduled calls some indicate newly distributed calls or some numbers may indicate that a specific call is from a high value target.

In some embodiments in addition to sending a caller ID number to a call originator and or call target the target management system may make additional information available to call targets using CNAM information. For example the system may set CNAM information in one or more CNAM databases to supply additional information to a call originator about a call that is coordinated by the target management system. For example instead of requiring the call originator to recognize a specific telephone number the call originator s system may retrieve CNAM data which specifically states the type or status of a call. In some embodiments CNAM data may be manipulated to send additional information to a call target as well. For example additional information about the call originator or an entity represented by the call originator may be provided to the call target.

In certain situations an existing call between a call originator and call target may also be transferred to another telephony device that joins the call to create a three way call and or replaces the call originator on the call e.g. so that that call target is then connected to a different telephony device . For example in some situations it is useful for multiple individuals to each speak to a call target such as at different stages of a sales process. In such situations a transfer entity that is added to and or replaces the original call originator may benefit from additional information regarding the call target and or the original call between the call originator and call target. For example the transfer entity may be an agent that sets up final details of a deal after the call originator or other initial contact makes a sale to the target or advances a sale. In some embodiments the system may address the situation of providing additional information to a transfer entity through the use of specific caller ID numbers or CNAM data as discussed above. For example the CNAM or specific caller ID number may be set such that a particular vertical segment or other information about the call target or transferring agent e.g. the call originator may be communicated to the transfer entity.

In some embodiments the target management system may include a user interface component a target identification component a call management component a caller ID selection component and a caller ID management component . In some embodiments the target management system may comprise fewer or additional components. In addition the components of the target management system may be implemented as part of a single system as shown in or may be implemented as part of several distinct systems and by one or more different entities in some implementations.

In some embodiments call originator may be a computer or telephone system used by an individual attempting to make a call to another individual or organization referred to herein as a target or call target which includes an individual or group of individuals to which a call is directed and or a calling device such as a calling device associated with a particular telephone number associated with the individual or group of individuals . The call originator system may include input and output devices which may include one or more of speakers headphones computing peripherals such as keyboards and mice telephones display screens or other input or output devices which may enable or aid a user in placing a call to a call target .

The example call originator system also include a communication interface that communicates with or through a telephony network to a call target . In some embodiments the communication interface may comprise a session initiation protocol terminal a primary rate interface terminal or another system configured to transfer communications through a PBX system to dedicated voice lines such as a public switched telephone network or in a packet delivered voice communication channel over the internet or another network. In some embodiments the call originator system comprises a computing system that includes components similar to those discussed below in with reference to the target management system . In some embodiments the communication interface includes an API that communicates with the call management component in order to provide call information to the call management component which may then initiate the telephone call. For example the call information may include a call target number a call target caller ID number a call originator number and or a call originator caller ID number. This information can then be used by the call management component to initiate calls to the call target and call originator with the indicated caller ID information. In some embodiments the call management component is operated and executed by a third party service that establishes connections such as digital voice connections with each of the call target and call originator and joins the two calls together such as in a conference call line.

In some embodiments the call originator may interact with a user interface component of the target management system . The user interface component may include a click to call module and or a call manager as well as other components. In some embodiments the click to call module provides a user interface element or elements that enable the call originator to initiate the process of calling a call target . In some embodiments a click to call element may be associated with a particular call target with information on the call target presented on a user interface. In some embodiments a click to call element may be associated with no particular call target but may instead be configured to initiate a process of automatically selecting a call target from a list of available call targets such as based on prioritization rules.

In some embodiments the call originator may initiate a call through other means than a click to call element on a user interface. In some embodiments the call function manager enables the call originator or another entity or system taking part in a telephone call utilizing the target management system to initiate one or more call functions during a call. For example the call function manager may generate one or more user interface elements which a user may select that cause a call taking place to be put on hold transferred recorded conferenced to additional parties or otherwise modified according to the instructions received. In some embodiments the user interface component may include fewer or additional elements enabling additional features to a user.

As shown in in some embodiments the user interface component may be included as part of target management system and thus may not be included or only partially included in the call originator system . For example the call originator system may access a user interface generated by the user interface component through a browser over a network. In some embodiments the call originator systems may include a user interface component which may provide some or all of the features as the user interface component shown in as included as part of target management system . For example the call originator may generate and provide to a call initiator a user interface with various call initiating and management elements. Instructions to initiate modify and or terminate a call may then be passed to a target management system over the internet or another network for example using an API associated with the target management system . In some embodiments the target management system may be included as part of call originator systems .

In some embodiments a click to call module may interact with a target identification component to determine a target to which a call should be initiated. The target identification component may access a list of potential targets which the call originator has permission or access to call and or some other list of potential targets . In some embodiments the target identification component may access a target database that includes a set of targets that may be contacted through the target management system . In some embodiments the target management system may include a list of potential targets including contact information e.g. first name last name residence address work address etc. as well as additional information known about the targets such as products the target is interested in hobbies demographic information previous contact history or any other information that may be helpful when contacting the target. In some embodiments the targets in the target database may be associated with one or more call originators that have permission or access to contact the targets. In some embodiments the target identification component may then select the highest priority target from the list of potential targets as the next target to call when initiating a communication such as in real time in response to selection of a click to call user interface element by the call originator. For example each of a plurality of lead records may be scored based on one or more of various factors in order to select a highest priority lead record as the next call target for the call originator. Such lead scoring may be performed by a lead scoring component such as is described in pending U.S. application Ser. No. 14 091 869 titled Lead Scoring filed Nov. 27 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

In some embodiments the target management system may include a caller ID selection component that accesses caller ID preferences associated with respective calls determines the appropriate caller ID type for the call e.g. based on hierarchical caller ID preferences and executes that determined caller ID selection method corresponding to the determined caller ID type to select caller ID numbers for use in the respective calls. The caller ID selection component may also access a caller ID management component that stores available caller ID information when executing the determined caller ID selection method such as to identify an available caller ID number for a particular geographic location as part of the location caller ID selection method. As noted above the caller ID preferences may include rules for selection of caller ID types for particular calls such as may be set by a system administrator that oversees calling activities of the call originator. For example a caller ID number for a call target may be selected based on a hierarchy of caller ID types such as custom campaign geographic agent and or company caller ID types and corresponding selection methods. An example process for selecting caller identification numbers using caller ID preferences that include one or more possible caller ID types in a prioritized or hierarchical relationship is discussed below with reference to .

In this embodiment the caller ID management component includes a caller ID database a caller ID resource manager and a caller ID acquisition component . The caller ID database may include a list of telephone numbers which are available to the target management system for use while initiating or transferring telephone calls. For example the telephone numbers in the caller ID database may be telephone numbers that have been purchased by an organization supervising the call originator and or the provider of the target management system . Advantageously the caller ID management system may acquire many telephone numbers with diverse geographic areas and maintain ownership of those numbers so that requesting entities that later use the caller ID services of the system may use those caller ID numbers without needing to purchase such numbers. Similarly caller ID numbers may be used by multiple requesting entities such as might be done for a particular area code that is desired by those requesting entities but which is no longer available to purchase.

In some embodiments the telephone numbers stored in the caller ID database may have additional information associated with them indicating appropriate times or situations for using the numbers. For example the telephone numbers may have associated geographical data clients agents campaigns companies which indicate when a caller ID should be used by the system. The caller ID selection component may utilize this information when selecting an appropriate telephone number for initiating transferring or modifying a telephone call. In some embodiments additional information may be stored in a database and associated with particular telephone numbers. In some embodiments the telephone numbers may be stored with the number and additional alphanumeric data providing information to the system about uses for the telephone number. For example in one embodiment telephone numbers may be stored in a format such as XXXXX . Where the pound signs indicate a particular telephone number and the XXXXX provides information about geographical data clients agents campaigns companies or other information about uses for the particular telephone number. In various embodiments telephone numbers may be stored in the caller ID database in a variety of manners and formats which enable the system to quickly and efficiently select a telephone number in real time for use in an outbound telephone call to a call target. References herein to databases may refer to any type of data structure for storing and or organizing data including but not limited to relational databases for example Oracle database mySQL database and the like spreadsheets XML files and text files among others. The various terms database data store and data source may be used interchangeably in the present disclosure.

In some embodiments instead of or in addition to storing outbound telephone numbers a caller ID database may have stored other alpha numerical information for use when setting the caller ID information such as CNAM data for calls to call targets call originators and or transfer entities. For example textual caller ID information indicating the source of a phone call may be included with the outbound telephone number. Thus a call target may receive a selected outbound telephone number a selected call source other textual information a combination of a selected telephone number and textual data and or the like.

In some embodiments the caller ID management component may include a caller ID resource manager . The caller ID resource manager may automatically manage the available telephone numbers for use by the target management system . As noted above and based on caller ID preference and or available caller ID types the target management system may place calls using a caller ID number familiar to the call target or otherwise indicating or conveying information of use to the call target . In order to maintain sufficient telephone numbers available in the caller ID database without having too many unused numbers the caller ID resource manager may monitor the availability and usage of numbers in the caller ID database . For example if telephone numbers with a specific area code or associated with a specific geographic region are frequently requested by the caller ID selection component but there are few available numbers in the system having such characteristics the caller ID resource manager may determine that it should attempt to acquire additional telephone numbers with the characteristic.

In one embodiment the caller ID resource manager may generate a usage rate for caller ID numbers within various geographic regions such as within a ZIP or area code and determine which area codes are most heavily used and thus should be updated with new numbers in those area codes if possible. For example the system may determine that 10 available caller ID numbers with a first area code were used in 200 calls within a week while caller 20 available caller ID numbers within a second area code were used in only 40 calls over that same time period. Thus in this example the usage ratio of caller ID numbers in the first area code 200 10 is much higher than the usage ratio of caller ID numbers in the second area code 40 20 . Thus the caller ID database may be configured to automatically request additional telephone numbers within area codes with a high usage ratio e.g. above a certain usage ratio and or dispose of some telephone numbers in area codes with a low usage ratio e.g. below a certain usage ratio . Similarly the caller ID resource manager may determine trends in usage of various groups of caller ID numbers such as increase or decrease in usage of caller ID numbers in each area code over a period of 1 month 6 months 12 months etc. and use the trend information to determine area codes that are becoming increasingly used. The caller ID resource manager may then be configured to automatically obtain additional telephone numbers within are codes with a trend of increasing use. In some embodiments the caller ID resource management may be set to maintain a predetermined quantity of telephone numbers in each of a variety of area codes and or other segment of telephone numbers such as a particular quantity per ZIP code city or population segment .

Depending on the embodiment obtaining new caller ID numbers e.g. telephone numbers comprises requesting telephone numbers from a carrier or agent of the carrier that is authorized to sell telephone numbers. In one embodiment telephone numbers may be purchased and then maintained indefinitely as long as a monthly subscription fee is paid. In some embodiments disposing of telephone numbers which may also be referred to as decommissioning or removing telephone numbers comprises indicating to the carrier that a particular number is no longer desired and halting payment of the monthly subscription. In one embodiment a telephone number provider e.g. an agent of one or more carriers that is authorized to sell telephone numbers provides an API that allows the caller ID resource manager to transmit an API command to the provider indicating when a number is to be decommissioned. Thus the caller ID resource manager may automatically determine additional telephone numbers to add to the caller ID database and automatically transmit electronic request to the provider to obtain the telephone numbers without human intervention.

In some embodiments through use over time and tracking of usage statistics the caller ID resource manager and or the caller ID selection component may designate specific of numbers for a particular area code or other area or segment to specific campaigns agents or call targets. In such cases the number of available numbers for the area codes may fall and the caller ID resource manager may determine that additional numbers are needed.

In some embodiments the caller ID resource manager may also assign or otherwise designate specific telephone numbers in the caller ID database to specific call originators call targets campaigns geographic areas and or area codes. In addition the caller ID resource manager may determine that certain assignments or designations are no longer needed or appropriate. For example if a campaign for a company has ended or has been unused for a specified period of time the caller ID resource manager may determine that the telephone numbers reserved for use only by that campaign may be released for other uses outside of the campaign. For example the association to the campaign may be removed from storage caller ID database and the telephone numbers may be reallocated to a general pool of numbers for use by the caller ID selection component .

In some embodiments the caller ID resource manager may determine that specific telephone numbers are not selected by the caller ID selection component or else are not successful when used and may therefore determine that the telephone numbers are not necessary. In such situations the caller ID resource manager may determine that the number should be decommissioned such as by selling rights to the telephone number and or not renewing a subscription fee for maintaining the telephone number. As noted above in some embodiments decommissioning telephone numbers may be performed automatically by the caller ID resource manager such as via a single API command sent to a provider of the telephone number. As maintaining additional telephone numbers may require additional money and or computing or other resources removing unused or unnecessary numbers from the system may be beneficial to the operation and cost.

In some embodiments the caller ID resource manager may also update the CNAM values associated with one or more numbers used by the system. For example in order to perform processes as described with reference to below the caller ID resource manager may update the CNAM value stored in one or more CNAM database . For example the caller ID resource manager may access a system or service which maintains a CNAM database through an API or other networked connection and update the CNAM associated with a specified number. For example a university that is calling a plurality of potential applicants to the University such as in a recruiting push may want to have different CNAM values displayed to different potential applicants. Thus for a caller ID number used by a University the CNAM data may be set initially to UNIV ATHLETICS for calls to potential applicants potentially interested in athletic programs at the university and calls are placed using that caller ID number for a two week period. Subsequently potential applicants with an interest in theater at the university may be called but prior to calling those potential applications e.g. over a subsequent two week period the CNAM value for the same caller ID number may be updated to UNIV THEATER. Thus the pick up rate for the targets may be increased in view of the targeted CNAM values while using a common phone number for the university.

In some embodiments the CNAM values for phone numbers may be updated through electronic communications such as API calls to a CNAM database or manager of one or more CNAM databases so that the CNAM values are available to call targets more quickly. For example in some embodiments the CNAM values may be updated in 48 hours or less such as 24 hours or even 1 5 hours or less.

In some embodiments the caller ID acquisition component acquires telephone numbers from one or more third party telephone number sources . The numbers may be acquired based on instructions of the caller ID resource manager for example. In some embodiments the third party telephone number sources may include one or more telephone service provider systems which may be automatically queried for additional telephone numbers to rent or purchase having specific characteristics. As noted above in some embodiments the caller ID acquisition component automatically without human intervention electronically requests and obtains additional telephone numbers as it determines such numbers are needed. Thus the inventory of available telephone numbers in the caller ID database may dynamically change over time automatically in response to monitoring and resource optimization provided by the caller ID acquisition component .

In some embodiments the target management system also includes a call management component . The call management component may initiate join e.g. combine on a conference line or otherwise join two or more calls monitor modify and or terminate calls made through the target management system . In some embodiments the call management component may receive call information from the user interface component the caller ID selection component and or other systems or component within or outside of the target management system .

In some embodiments the call management component interacts with the call originator system and or call target system through a telephony network . For example the telephony network may include a networked or cloud based telephony system capable of initiating joining maintaining monitoring modifying and or terminating calls through the internet mobile phone communication protocols Plain Old Telephone System POTS public switched telephone networks and or any other communication mediums configured to transmit voice data.

In some embodiments the call management system may initiate telephone calls through the telephony network according to the processes described below with reference to . For example in some embodiments the call management component may initiate a call by establishing a connection with the call originator system such as via a phone call to the telephone number of the call originator system .

Example of the call originator has requested a call to a particular call target via the target management system . As noted above in some embodiments the target management system may provide a recommended or required in some embodiments next contact for the call originator such that the target management system actually selects the call target that the call originator will be contacting via a telephone call. In such an embodiment action one of may not be performed. Alternatively action one may comprise the target management system informing the call originator of the call target which a telephone call will be initiated on behalf of the call originator e.g. without the call originator specifically identifying the call target is for.

As discussed further herein the target management system may use various algorithms and characteristics of potential call targets to select the appropriate caller ID to provide to the call target. The target management system then transmits a request to the call management component to initiate a call between the call originator and the call target . Depending on the embodiment the information included in the API call to the call management component may include various information. For example the API call may indicate 

In this embodiment the call management component using the information in the API call can initiate telephone calls with both the call target and the call originator in either order and then connect the two calls in a conference line so that a telephone call is established. In some embodiments the API data sent to the call management component may have multiple stages e.g. may actually be multiple API calls . For example the initial API call may have the call originator telephone number and request initiation of the call with the call originator. Once the call is answered by the call originator which may be detected by the call management component that is monitoring the call the call management component may query the target management system for information regarding another call to connect to a conference line. In response the target management system may then transmit the call target telephone number and caller ID information for the call target. In one embodiment the call target may not be identified until this query from the target management system is received such as in real time based on current available call targets.

In some embodiments the API call to the call management component includes further information such as a caller ID number to provide to the call originator also. For example the API call noted above may be supplemented with d call original caller ID e.g. 222 222 2222. As discussed elsewhere herein the caller ID information transmitted to the call originator may provide various types of information to the call originator such as status or type of call target to which the call originator is being connected e.g. via a correlations known caller ID numbers and status types of calls and or view CNAM data associated with caller ID numbers such as is discussed further below .

When establishing a connection with the call target the call management component may include a caller ID number provided by the caller ID selection component such as based on a caller ID type selected according to caller ID preferences selected for the call so that the provided caller ID number is viewable by the call target on the incoming telephone call. Depending on the embodiment the call management component may be configured to initiate a connection first with the call target and then with the call originator or vice versa for example to the call originator first and then to the call target . Similarly the call management component may initiate calls to both the call originator and the call target concurrently. In some embodiments the API call to the call management component indicates in order in which calls should be initiated to the multiple parties. In some embodiments an entity requesting calls by the target management system may provide preferences on orders of calls.

In some embodiments joining of two or more calls by the call management component includes transferring each call to a common conference line. In some embodiments once the calls are joined communication between the call originator device and the call target device is performed via the telephony network without further involvement of the call management component. In other embodiments the call management component and or the target management system monitors part or all of the call such as by maintaining a connection with the conference line. In some embodiments the target management system is connected as a third connection to a conference line including a call originator and a call target and or other others such that the target management system may monitor the call. For example the call management system may be instructed e.g. by API call to call the call originator first and when connected place on a conference line then call the target management system e.g. a line for monitoring calls by the target management system and when connected place in the conference line and finally call the call target and connected to the conference line either when connected or while the connecting is still ringing the call target s phone . In other embodiments the calls may be performed in any other order.

For example the target management system may track characteristics of the call such as total call time time percentage of call when call originator was speaking time percentage of call when call target was speaking and or other characteristics. In some embodiments the target management system performs a voice to text process on the conversation and or of particular participants of the conversation and performs keyword analytics on the text such as to identify words phrases frequency of words or phrases etc. associated with the call originator and or call target related to outcomes of the calls. Thus calls with a high closing rate e.g. a product or service was sold to the call target may be analyzed to identify characteristics of the speech used by call originators during those calls and use that analytics in training and or monitoring other call originators. For example a happiness score for call targets may be predicted based on analysis of voice to text information and or other speech analysis such as tone of the call target to provide indications of how happy the call targets are. This information may be used to track agent success rates and may further be associated with caller ID numbers and or CNAM data provided to respective call targets. Thus caller ID numbers with regularly very low happiness scores of call targets may be indicative of a low value of those caller ID numbers such as numbers that may indicate to the caller that the call is from someone that they probably don t want to speak with.

Depending on the embodiment the call management component may set the caller ID information on an outbound call using any 202 type modulation line reversal or other protocols for instance and may be sent using signaling appropriate for receipt by the call target s systems for example using DTMF V.23 or FSK signaling.

As noted above in some embodiments certain operations discussed herein with reference to the call management component may be performed by a third party system.

During the course of a telephone call the call originator may interact with call function manager such as via user interfaces generated by the call function manager and or the communication interface to direct the call management component to modify or otherwise interact with the call. For example a call originator using the call originator system may instruct the target management component to conference in another number transfer a call record a call place a call on hold or otherwise modify an ongoing phone conversation.

In some embodiments the call management component may advantageously include caller ID information in the call to the transfer entity that provides relevant information regarding the call and or call target to the transfer entity . For example the caller ID number provided to the transfer entity may be the same caller ID number used when initiating contact with the call target e.g. the outbound telephone number selected by the caller ID selection component which may provide the transfer entity with information about the purpose of the call. For instance the call target may have been contacted using caller identification information associated with a specific campaign. Thus the provided campaign telephone number may be used by the transfer entity system to identify the campaign such as by performing an automatic lookup in a table or database e.g. the caller ID database storing associations between caller ID numbers and particular campaigns associated with those caller ID number. In other embodiments the caller ID information may be the caller ID number provided to the call originator so that the transfer entity system can determine from whom the call is being transferred such as a particular agent associated with the caller ID number and or department of agents.

In some embodiments the call management component may provide the telephone number of the call target . This may enable the transfer entity to know the identity of the target party. For example the transfer entity system may access the call target database with a query for the lead record associated with the received caller ID number which will locate the lead record of the call target . This process may be performed automatically by the transfer entity in response to receiving the caller ID number such that the lead record of the call target is displayed on a display of the transfer entity system immediately or within one or a few seconds of transfer of the call to the transfer entity .

In some embodiments a user of call originator systems may select the caller ID number to be provided to the transfer entity such as by using a call transfer element generated by the call function manager as part of the call transfer request. In some embodiments a combination of the various telephone numbers noted above may be included in caller ID information provided to the transfer entity . Furthermore the caller ID information may be customized such as to include alphanumeric characters that are identify the call originator the call target and or call status. For example a status of the call target may be included in caller ID information in the call as it is transferred from the call originator to the transfer entity .

In block the target management system receives a request to connect to a call target. In some embodiments the request may include a specified call target or may be a request to connect to a next call target. For example the request to connect to a call target may indicate that a call originator is ready to connect to a next call target in a prioritized list of targets available to the agent which may dynamically change as the list of targets is accessed by other call originators time passes and or other factors that affect prioritization of targets changes. For example the target management system may use prioritization and selection of targets for a call originator according to one or more of the embodiments disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 091 869 filed Nov. 27 2013 and published as U.S. Publication No. 2014 0149178 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In block the system accesses target data associated with the call target. For example the call target may have data indicating the source of the target products or services of interest to the target previous contact with the target geographic data of the target demographic data about the target and or additional information that may be helpful when contacting the target. The system may access the target data from a local database or a separate system. In some embodiments target data is provided to the system by the requesting entity attempting to initiate a call. For example the request may include geographic data campaign data or other data about the target.

In block the system accesses a bank of telephone numbers available to use in caller ID information of outgoing calls. The bank of available numbers may be as described with reference to the caller ID database depicted in . In block the system selects an outbound telephone number to set in the caller ID information of a telephone call. The system may select the caller ID information based on information about the target accessed in block data about the agent or other requesting entity based on a combination of target and originator information or based on other criteria. In some embodiments in block the system may follow process similar to those described in further detail below with reference to .

In block the system initiates a telephone call between the call target and originator with the caller ID information set to include the selected outbound telephone number such as by one or more of the processes discussed with reference to . For example regardless of the telephone number or numbers associated with a phone line used by the call originator the system may set or modify the caller ID information that will be sent to the call target to match the selected outbound telephone number.

In the example of a lead record has been selected for calling as indicated in the call interface in the lower right corner of the figure either manually by the user or automatically using a click to call type of feature that automatically selected the highest priority lead record . In this example the caller ID information provided to the lead record in the outgoing call is indicated to the user. In some embodiments the caller ID selection method e.g. the caller ID type that was used in determining the indicated caller ID is also indicated in the user interface. For example after performing a process such as is discussed below in order to determine an appropriate caller ID type for a particular call the selected caller ID Type e.g. geographic caller ID may be indicated to the agent e.g. via an icon next to the caller ID information .

Returning to beginning in block the system may determine if a target is associated with a custom caller ID. In this example embodiment a custom caller ID is the preferred caller identification used. The custom caller ID may be specific to an individual call target. For instance individuals that have a very high chance of conversion contact or other desirable outcome may be assigned a custom caller ID. For example if a particular target indicated a desire to buy a product immediately a custom number may be assigned to that target such that any communication with the target is quickly identified by source to the target and incoming calls from the target are recognized by the system as being assigned to the target even if from an unknown number and are routed to an appropriate agent immediately. In some embodiments the custom caller ID may be selected and assigned to the target based on a set of rules. For example the custom caller ID may be selected to convey specific information about a campaign associated with the target such that the outbound caller ID matches a specific number recognizable to the call target. As an example a university may select custom caller IDs for potential students that may be interested in a specific college or program within the school. The custom caller ID thus conveys additional information specific to the high value target. Furthermore if the target calls back to the custom caller ID number the call can be routed to a particular assigned agent or an agent with experience dealing with the specific products or services associated with the custom caller ID such that the maximum value of the lead is realized by the system. If in block the system determines that the call target has an associated custom caller ID the system may then select the custom caller ID telephone number in block for use when initiating a call with the call target. If the system does not identify a custom caller ID associated with the call target it may move on to block to see if there is another preferred caller ID associated with the call target.

In block the system may determine if the call target is associated with a campaign that uses one or more specific caller ID telephone numbers. In some embodiments a campaign caller ID may be used to associate a call target with a number that corresponds to a specific campaign. For example a company may have an online campaign which generates a set of targets. Each target in the set of targets may be called with an outbound number corresponding to the campaign. This enables the target to recognize the number from the initial campaign as well as enabling inbound calls to the campaign caller ID to be efficiently routed to an appropriate agent associated with the specific target or with experience with the specific campaign associated with the number. If the system identifies an associated campaign in block the system may select a number or name of entity making or requesting the call associated with the campaign for use when initiating calls to the call target in block . If the system does not identify an associated campaign the method moves to block .

In some embodiments the system may provide a local caller ID as the outbound number if no custom or campaign caller identification is available or based on other rules or hierarchal preferences of an entity . For example in block the system may determine if the call originator has decided to contact the target with a local telephone number and or if the target has associated geographic information. If the system determines that a local caller ID number is appropriate the system may determine if a geographic location of the target is available in block . If geographic information corresponding to the target is available the system may select an outbound telephone number corresponding to the target s location in block . For example a database storing information about the target may have data about one or more mailing addresses home addresses or billing addresses. The system may select an outbound telephone number that appears to have a physical location corresponding to the target s location. If the system cannot access geographic information about the target in block it may instead select a telephone number that appears to be in the same or similar location as the target s telephone number. Example methods of selecting an appropriate outbound number based on geographic data is described further below with reference to .

In some embodiments if the system determines that setting a local caller ID is not enabled by the system or a local caller ID number is not available in block the system may determine in block if the call is being made by or on behalf of an entity with one or more specific telephone numbers. For example in some embodiments a company will use one or more outbound numbers for making calls to call targets. If the call originator is calling from the company or on behalf of the company the system may select a telephone number or alphanumeric indicator of the company corresponding to the company s outbound telephone numbers. Therefore in some embodiments such as where calling targets is outsourced to a third party the third party may use different outbound caller IDs based on which company the agent is calling on behalf of. If the system determines that the call is initiated for an entity with a specific caller ID the system may select a caller ID associated with the company in block .

In block if another telephone number has not been selected by the system the system may determine if the call originator has defined another telephone number to use for the caller ID. For example the call originator may select an outbound number from a pool of available numbers. In some embodiments these numbers may also be used as other types of caller IDs for other targets. For example the call originator may select a telephone number as a call originator defined caller ID that is also used as a local caller ID for one or more other call targets. If the system determines that a telephone number was defined by the call originator it may be selected for use when initiating a call in block .

In some embodiments the caller identification management system may select a default phone number in block to use if another number is not selected. For example a default number may be the actual phone number of the device that the call originator e.g. call agent is or will be using for the call. In some embodiments each agent may have a specific phone number which can be used as a default if no other number is available or preferable. In some embodiments a single caller ID may be used as the default for all call originators making outbound calls from a specific location for example from a single call center or company.

Although shown in as a hierarchy with caller ID information selected based on one of a set of criteria in some embodiments the selection criteria may be used in conjunction with one another. For example a campaign may have multiple telephone numbers associated with it so the system may select a telephone number associated with the campaign that is also in closest proximity to a geographic location associated with the target. Thus the system may select a preferred number within a set of numbers available based on a criteria highest in the hierarchy by also applying other selection criteria. The method the system used to select specific caller ID information such as via a caller ID information hierarchy or ruleset may be personalized or customized for specific campaigns customers or products and or based on machine learning applied to previous call attempts.

In some embodiments geographic regions or locations may be defined by the system in a variety of ways. For example the system may base the geographic locations at least in part based on boundaries of cities ZIP codes ZIP 4 codes area codes county lines state lines metropolitan areas and or the like. In some embodiments the system may define all geographic areas based on the same type of boundaries or they may be based on different boundaries depending on the available data. For example in rural areas county lines or area codes may define boundaries whereas in cities or urban centers neighborhoods or zip codes may provide the boundaries of geographic areas. Depending on the embodiment the method of may include fewer or additional blocks and or the blocks may be performed in order different than as illustrated.

Beginning in block the system may identify contact and other information known about a call target. In some embodiments the system may accesses information known about the call target from a call target database. For instance a database accessed by the system may include information that targets enter into web forms associated with the call originator. In some embodiments some of the targets may have information about their geographic location already stored in the database which the caller identification management system can correlate to telephone numbers close to the call target. Call target information may be obtained from a CRM system such as those that generated the user interfaces of and which store information regarding a plurality of potential call targets.

In block the system may analyze the extracted contact information to check if contact information associated with the target includes any geographic marker s such as residence address or work address. If the information includes one or more geographic marker the system may proceed to determine a region as supported by the system that includes the identified geographic marker s . If multiple geographic markers are indicated such as multiple physical addresses other rules may be applied to determine a geographic marker for use in determine caller ID information using the process described below. For example an address that has been most recently added to the database may be used as the basis for the geographic marker.

In some embodiments if the contact information does not include a geographic marker the system may attempt to determine a location for the target. Continuing to block the system may access a third party database such as census data to attempt to identify a geographic marker for the call target. For example the system may take known information about the target and compare it to information in a third party database to determine a geographic location most likely associated with the target. For example contact information known about the call target may include a combination of name age telephone number employment or other information which may be used to query a third party database to access additional information about the target. For example name age and telephone number of a target may be used to query one or more databases such as census data to obtain information regarding the target that can be linked to a geographic marker.

In some embodiments in addition to or as an alternative to accessing a third party database the system may analyze addition information provided by the target to determine a relevant geographic location. For example an employer educational institution or other background information associated with the target is available such as may be provided by the target or obtained from another source the system may access address information of the employer school or other entity and derive a possible location or set of locations from the background information by selecting a correlated geographic location. Even if the target does not currently reside in the geographic location of a previous employer or school the target may be more likely to respond than if a random blocked or toll free number was used. In some embodiments the system may also determine a geographic marker for a target based on IP address data from the device that completed a web form that originally identified the target such as a web form that the target filled out requesting information regarding a product offered by the call originator.

In block the system may determine if a geographic marker has been identified. If a geographic marker has been identified the system may continue to select a telephone based on the geographic marker. If the system has been unable to determine geographic marker for the target based on the provided data the system may continue to block and use the target telephone number to determine a geographic region for the call target. For example the area code of the telephone number of the call target may be associated with a specific geographic region. The system may then set the call target s location as in that region for selecting an outbound telephone number for contacting the call target. In some embodiments the system may attempt to determine potential geographic markers for a target by a variety of processes and select a most likely geographic marker based on the results.

In some embodiments one or more geographic markers e.g. determined at blocks and or block may be sued to estimate demographic information regarding a call target. For example a geographic marker for a call target such as a residence ZIP code may be used to query public census data in order to return information regarding whether the address is likely associated with a commercial or a residential location. If the location is commercial the caller ID selection component may use a caller ID in that same geographic location for the outbound call while if the location is residential the caller ID selection component may attempt to select a caller ID based on other information such as the other aspects of . In other embodiments a residential location triggers use of a caller ID from the same geographic location.

In some embodiments a determination of various demographic features may be determined based on the geographic marker such as household income ethnic makeup etc. In some embodiments such demographic information may only be determined if the geographic marker is associated with a residential location. Furthermore one or more databases correlating surnames and or first names of call targets to ethnic backgrounds may be accessed potentially along with information from public census data and or other data to predict an ethnicity of the call target. Such information may then be used to select a caller ID for the call target. For example if the call target is determined to be of Chinese descent based on census demographics and or name analysis the caller ID selection component may impose a filter on caller ID numbers that are selectable for the target so that the numbers 4 and 7 are not included in the selected number as some Chinese may feel that the numbers 4 and 7 are unlucky or even associated with death and likely wouldn t answer a call from a number with many or even 1 four . However such Chinese descent call targets may be more likely to answer a call if the caller ID includes the number 3 which may be considered a lucky number. Thus a Chinese descent filter may be applied to those call targets that are likely Chinese indicating that the caller ID should not include any 4 s but should include as many 3 s as possible. Other similar cultural religious or belief based filters may be applied based on determined demographic information about the call target. For example for call target s in Kenya caller ID numbers with the last digit of 7 may be excluded from selection since that may be seen as unlucky 13 and 666 may be excluded in many countries as being unlucky number while 4 is consider unlucky in China 4 may be seen as lucky in Europe North America and Australia for example and used in caller ID numbers selected for calls to those regions as much as possible. Thus through use of a cultural number selection algorithm numbers that are selected by the caller ID selection component may be filtered and or preferences for numbers to include in selected numbers may be provided. In some embodiments numerical filters and or recommendations may be used in selection of caller ID numbers any caller ID selection method. Additionally in some embodiments such a cultural number selection algorithm may be used in determining telephone number to purchase e.g. numbers with more lucky numbers and or decommissioned e.g. numbers with more unlucky numbers by the caller ID resource manager as discussed above.

In some embodiments the system continues to block after a geographic marker has been provided to determine a particular geographic region for the target. For example if the geographic marker for a user is a street address the system may assign a neighborhood township or other regional area as the geographic region for the target. In some embodiments the geographic region may include a zip code for example the system may then access a database which maps the zip code to a geographic region used by the system. For example the database may include zip codes area codes cities counties or other geographic markers and have them mapped to geographic regions as used by the system. In some embodiments the geographic regions used by the system may be defined as specific zip codes area codes cities counties and may include a database correlating geographic markers determined for targets to the geographic regions used by the system. In some embodiments the geographic markers may be correlated to specific geographic regions by a third party system. For example a street address may be provided to a third party system to determine an appropriate zip code.

Moving on to block after the system has determined a geographic region for the target the system may access a database of available caller ID numbers to include with an outbound call each of which is correlated to one or more geographic regions. For example the database may include a set of geographic regions used by the system and associated telephone numbers currently available for use. In some embodiments a database containing available telephone numbers may be the same as a database used to determine a geographic region based on a geographic marker. In some embodiments the system may determine multiple geographic regions for the call target. For example if the contact information includes multiple geographic markers the system may assign the call target to geographic regions associated with each marker. This may happen for instance if the call target moved but keeps a cell phone number associated with a previous residence location. In such situations the system may assign a primary geographic region based on the address provided by the call target but may assign a secondary geographic location based on the target s telephone number. In some embodiments the system may use the secondary geographic region if there are no available telephone numbers associated with the primary geographic region. In some embodiments additional geographic regions may also be associated with a single call target.

Moving on to block the system may determine if the database telephone numbers available that correspond to the geographic region of the target including numbers that fit any demographic or culture filters that may have been determined for a particular call target . In some embodiments the system may not have a caller ID number available in all geographic regions or may have multiple available caller ID numbers available for one or more regions. If the system determines that there is a number available for a region corresponding to the target s geographic region the system determines a set of numbers corresponding to that region in block . The set may include all numbers available for a specific geographic region or a subset of those numbers. For example some numbers available for use by the system in the geographic region may not be available for use with the specific call target. The call target may not be associated with a campaign that exclusively uses some of the available numbers for instance.

If there is no number for the geographic region associated with the call target the system may continue to block to determine if a nearby geographic region has any available numbers. Nearby regions may be determined as those regions adjacent to the region determined for the target by a distance from the nearby regions to the target s region or by other means. In some embodiments the geographic regions may be stored with an indication of regions to include as nearby regions. If one or more nearby regions include an available telephone number the system may determine a set of available numbers for the nearby regions in the same manner as if there were available numbers in the target s geographic region in block .

Moving on to block if there is no available number for the target s region or for nearby regions the system may select another set of available numbers. In some embodiments the other set of available numbers may be selected as those available in a region determined as a secondary region for the target or numbers that do not match the determined demographic and or cultural number filters. In some embodiments the system may select a number randomly from a predefined set of numbers a set of default numbers used when local data is not available or in another manner. In some embodiments if a local number is not available for the call target s region or a nearby region the system may proceed to a next preferred caller identification type. For example the system may proceed to determine whether a company caller ID type is appropriate for the call target as outlined in .

Moving on to block in some embodiments the system may select a particular number to set as an outbound caller ID if the system identified multiple candidate numbers at block or . In some embodiments the system may keep statistics associated with available numbers which may be used to select a preferred telephone number from the set of available numbers. For example the system may attempt to use the telephone numbers available at an even level to help redistribute calls returned to the system. Furthermore a particular telephone number may receive responses at a higher or lower rate than other available numbers and may be preferred or avoided in response. For example the system may use machine learning or artificial intelligence techniques to determine which of a subset of available numbers has the best chance of resulting in a completed telephone call with the particular call target. For example in a given region one area code or prefix may be perceived to be from a better area of town and therefore receive a higher response rate than other numbers. The system may use this response rate to optimize the selection of telephone numbers.

In some embodiments the system may select a candidate number from the set of numbers based on determining that the one of the numbers meets criteria for another selection process. For example if one number in a set of candidate numbers is also associated with a campaign that is relevant to the call target that number may be selected ahead of other numbers. In some embodiments the system may select a number based on the frequency that number has been used compared to other numbers. For example selecting a number that has been used more often may provide the advantage of having more targets associated with a single number if some numbers are later released by the system. Selecting a number which has been used less frequently than other numbers may provide an advantage for routing incoming calls to that number. In some other embodiments the system may select a particular number from a set of candidate numbers randomly. After the system selects a particular telephone number to use as the caller ID for a target in block the system may set the selected telephone number as the caller ID in block .

In some embodiments the system or a call originator may contact a particular target multiple times. In some situations the target may provide more information after an initial contact but before a subsequent contact which clarifies the geographic location of the target. In some embodiments the caller identification system may update the geographic location in the target s information but may continue to use the previously determined local caller identification number for calling the target so that a consistently recognizable number is provided to the target. In some other embodiments a new local caller identification number may be determined after additional geographic information has been determined about the target. In addition in some embodiments after an initial call is made to a target the same number will be used to contact the target on any future occasions. However the system may also allow an agent or administrator to change the number that will be used to contact the target. For example after the initial contact an agent may assign a custom number to a target or may assign a personal number of the agent for use by the target.

In some embodiments caller ID information on incoming calls may be analyzed before routing the call in or creating a new lead or a call if the call and or lead are not matched with an existing. For example if an individual calls a number provided by the target management system in caller ID information from a previous call to the target the target management system and or a CRM lead management system may try to match the incoming call to an existing lead record and if no match is found create a new lead record. In some embodiments the incoming phone number used by the target is compared to caller ID numbers that have been sent out by the target management system perhaps in a predetermined time e.g. one month three months one year or at any time in order to determine if the target previously received a call using that incoming phone number or if the target misdialed another phone number and happen to use that incoming phone number. In some embodiments if the incoming phone number does not match a caller ID number that is known to have been used by the target management system or provided to one or more of several possible calling entities that receive caller ID information from the target management system a new lead record may not be created for the caller. Rather the call may be blocked the message may be provided to the caller indicating that they are calling the wrong number or some other message that is developed in view of the call being a likely erroneous call that may not be related to the caller ID number within the target management system .

Beginning in block a call originator initiates a call to a call target. For example the call may be originated in any manner as discussed above or in another manner.

Moving on to block a profile associated with the target is accessed generated and or updated with information and attributes associated with the target. The profile may be generated such that it is efficiently and accurately analyzed to provide the best predicted caller ID. For example attributes such as estimated income may be converted into binary values indicating a range of income into which an individual estimate falls. Similar segmenting of call targets into segments associated with various ranges of attribute values may be performed such as by deconstructing the profile of the call target to determine other attributes such as age address marital status education level employments etc. In some embodiments the generated profile may then be represented as an array of binary values each indicating whether the target has a specified attributes such as indications of which demographic or psychographic segments the profile is associated with. In some embodiments non binary values may be used for particular attributes. For example the targets age may be used instead of segmenting the target into an age range. In some embodiments an actual value is used instead of or in addition to segments for those attributes indicating a particular caller ID predictably as the value increases or decreases. In some embodiments the attributes of a target are deconstructed before a call originator initiates a call. However in order to use the most up to date information which may be modified over time in some embodiments the target may be deconstructed into a profile just as the call is occurring.

Moving on to block the system accesses a predictive caller ID model. For example the predictive caller ID model may be stored in a predictive caller ID model database . In some embodiments there may be more than one predictive caller ID model. For example there may be multiple models based on the vertical that is being used based on the particular call originator based on temporal restrictions or based on other attributes of the particular call. In some embodiments each of these attributes may be built directly into a single model.

Moving on to block the system analyzes a profile associated with the target to determine a caller ID type to use with the newly initiated call. For example the profile associated with the target may include one or more attributes such as name street address city state ZIP age gender credit score income household income expenses debts assets product or service of interest organizational budget spending authority level of the individual purchase decision timeframe previous purchase history electronic and telephonic interaction history associated campaigns associated products previous contact attempts or any other attribute which provides information about the lead. In some embodiments the system may also take into account one or more attributes of the call originator as well.

In some embodiments the predictive caller ID model used to analyze the caller profile may have weightings for various potential attributes of profiles. Based on the weightings of the attributes and the value for a particular profile a score may be generated for each available type of caller ID and a particular type of caller ID may be selected based on the scores. For example the system may store a specific weighting for each potential attribute associated with each type of caller ID. The system may then aggregate the value of the weightings after they are applied to each of the attributes in the target profile for each of the caller ID types. Whichever type of caller ID has the highest score is chosen by the system as the preferred caller ID for the target.

Moving on to block the system selects a caller ID for the initiated call based on the analysis of the profile. For example a specific caller ID associated with the type of caller ID returned by the profile analysis performed according to the predictive caller ID model may be selected. In some embodiments the caller ID may be selected as discussed above with reference to . In other embodiments the predictive caller ID model provides criteria for selection of a caller ID number for a particular call target that doesn t align with any one particular caller ID selection method. Thus the caller ID selected for the call target may be selected based on other criteria and or rules than those associated with the several caller ID types discussed herein.

Moving on to block the system determines if a contact attempt using the selected caller ID to the call target was successful. If the contact attempt was not successful the system may move on to block and decrement the preference weighting for the caller ID type associated with each of the attributes of the target profile in the predictive model. In some embodiments a contact attempt may be considered successful if the target answered the call stayed on the line for a particular length of time progressed to the next stage of a sales cycle converted eventually or met another criteria indicating the quality of the call. For example if the profile had an attribute of estimated income in a specific range and the contact number being a cellular number the system may decrease the weighting associated with each of those attributes for the type of caller ID used. After the model is updated the system may return to analyze the target profile again to determine a caller ID. On a second pass the caller ID type that was previously unsuccessful may not be available as a possible caller ID type. In some embodiments only the first contact attempt is analyzed for purposes of updating a predictive model. This may prevent a target that is unlikely to answer any call from adversely affecting the caller ID selection models.

On the other hand if the contact attempt was successful the system may instead move onto block and increment the preference weighting for the caller ID type associated with each of the attributes of the target profile in the predictive model. For example if the profile had an attribute of a specified region and a particular vertical the system may increase the weighting associated with each of those attributes for the type of caller ID used. If the contact was successful the system may move on to block and set the permanent caller ID for the call target to the number that was successful.

Beginning in block a call is initiated or transferred through the target management system. For example a call originator may make a call through the system to the next call target in a prioritized list. In certain situations an inbound call may be initiated through from a target through the system and may be routed to one or more call originators. In some embodiments the system may also perform the blocks in when a call is transferred from a call originator to a transfer entity.

Moving on to block the system determines a status of the call target. The status of the call target may determine the manner in which the call originator would deal with a target. For example calls for some targets may be important to answer the call immediately while others may be fine to call back at another time or not answer at all. In some embodiments the status of a call target may be one or more of 

Moving on to block in some embodiments the system selects a caller ID number associated with CNAM data corresponding to the determined status. For example each of the statuses that may be associated with a call target may be associated with one or more telephone numbers in a caller ID database. The specific caller IDs associated with a status may have CNAM data including alphanumeric information associated with the status. The CNAM data may be the same as the specified status for instance. In some embodiments the system may have one or more numbers which represent combinations of statuses. For example one number may be associated with a target that has a status of call back and hot target. The CNAM data associated with the number may have an indication of both in the textual information such as hot call back. In some embodiments CNAM data may be customized to show specific agent such as a call originator that is transferring a call. Thus the transfer entity may immediately know from whom a call is being transferred and may initiate the conversation appropriately. Similarly CNAM data can be set to indicate a department e.g. cold calls or dispute resolution center so that the transfer entity has more information on the nature of the transferred call. In some embodiments the amount of textual information that may be included in CNAM data may be limited to a specified number of characters such as 15 characters.

Moving on to block the target management system initiates a call with the call originator or transfer entity in the cases of a transfer from an original call originator with the selected caller ID number. The call originator then will receive a call with that number and the associated telephone or computer systems can request CNAM data from a CNAM database or lookup service. The returned CNAM data will indicate the status of the call target.

As an example of the processes depicted in a scheduled dial may be initiated by the target management system at a time specified by the call originator to a specified target. The system then determines that the status of the call target is a scheduled dial. In certain situations the call target may also be associated with another status but the system may determine a particular status for the call as a scheduled dial. The system may then select a caller ID number from the caller ID database that is associated with the status of scheduled dial. When the call is initiated the system may first initiate the call to the call originator using a number associated with scheduled dial. At that point the originator s telephone system may issue a request to a CNAM database for the CNAM data associated with the selected caller ID number. The CNAM database can then return the CNAM data associated with the caller ID number to provide information to the call originator. For example the call originator s telephone may display text indicating that the call is a scheduled dial based on looking up the telephone number e.g. the CNAM data may be Scheduled Dial . As discussed above the system may then after the originator answers and the call proceeds to a stage where transfer to a transfer entity is appropriate proceed to initiate a second leg of the call by transferring the call to a transfer entity with updated caller ID information such as updated CNAM data to indicate a current status of the call target and or sales process for example.

The system communicates with target sources to identify targets for initiating phone calls. In some embodiments the target sources may include a target database which includes data entered or discovered about various targets for example the target database described in reference to above. In some embodiments the target sources may include one or more third party referral sources web forms providing information regarding target information received from call targets or other sources. In some embodiments the target data received from target sources may be used to populate a target database as described in reference to . The target management platform may also communicate with various physical data stores such as supplemental databases which may include additional information about call targets telephone numbers geographic data or other information useful to the target management system .

In some embodiments one or more of the databases may be implemented using a relational database such as Sybase Oracle CodeBase and Microsoft SQL Server as well as other types of databases such as for example a flat file database an entity relationship database and object oriented database a distributed file system and or a record based database. The call originator may request a call to be initiated by the target management system . Based on receiving the request to initiate a call the system may identify a telephone number to use for setting caller ID information and may initiate a call through telephony network .

The computing system includes the target management system that in one embodiment is stored in the mass storage device as executable software codes that are executed by the CPU . The target management system may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables. In the embodiment shown in the computing system is configured to execute the target management system in order to for example initiate contact with call targets as requested by call originators with caller ID information set to telephone numbers selected to optimize the response of the call targets . The target management system may also provide one or more of the features discussed above including identifying a next target to call analyzing a target identifying geographic regions for a target initiating calls setting caller ID information and or modifying telephone calls. In some embodiments the computing system illustrated in may include fewer or additional components. For example the computing system may include a separate caller ID management component or may not include multimedia devices . In some embodiments the computing system may include one or more call originator systems as well as target management system which may themselves include any combination of the components illustrated in platform . In some embodiments the computing system may be part of call originator systems .

The telephony systems may be a public switched telephone network which connects the call target to the call originator . The call originator may comprise computer systems configured to enable the call originator to request calls to be initiated by the target management system . In some embodiments the call originator system may comprise a session initiation protocol terminal configured to handle calls initiated by the target management system . In some embodiments the call originator system directs calls over a network such as the internet through a voice over IP connection. In some embodiments the call originator places communicates with the call target through the telephony network using the same interface that requests calls to be initiated by the target management system . In some embodiments the call originator may also communicate with the telephony network through a primary rate interface system.

In some embodiments the target management system may initiate a telephone call to a call target by invoking a call from an external telephone system of the call originator such as a voice over IP VOIP cell phone or landline. For example call information may be transferred to the external telephone e.g. a VOIP phone from the target management system or the communication interface which then initiates the call to the call target using the call information e.g. including a call originator number included in the received call information . Thus in one embodiment the target management system can output information that controls functionality of an external telephone device.

In some embodiments the call originator may have various external telephone systems which may be set to ring based on the location of the call originator at the time a call is initiated. In some embodiments multiple or all telephone systems associated with the call originator may be contacted simultaneously as the system initiates a telephone call. In some embodiments the target management platform is operated on the call originator systems and the call originators connection to the telephony network may initiate calls to the call target .

The computing system may include one or more computing devices for example a personal computer that is IBM Macintosh or Linux Unix compatible or a server or workstation. In one embodiment the computing system comprises a server for example. In one embodiment the exemplary computing system includes one or more CPU which may each include a conventional or proprietary microprocessor. The computing system further includes one or more memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information one or more read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and one or more mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette solid state drive or optical media storage device. Typically the modules and or components of the computing system are connected to the computer using a standard based bus system. In different embodiments the standard based bus system could be implemented in Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Microchannel Small Computer System Interface SCSI Industrial Standard Architecture ISA and Extended ISA EISA architectures for example. In addition the functionality provided for in the components and modules of computing system may be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules.

The computing system is generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows 8 Windows 10 Windows Server Unix Linux SunOS Solaris iOS Blackberry OS Android or other compatible operating systems. In Macintosh systems the operating system may be any available operating system such as MAC OS X. In other embodiments the computing system may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things. To implement the computing system and or one or more of its components various software including Perl Syncsort DMExpress MySQL InfoBright Veritca DB2 Connect Connect Direct MapR M5 Hadoop and or Tableau can be utilized.

The exemplary computing system may include one or more commonly available I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard mouse touchpad and printer. In one embodiment the I O devices and interfaces include one or more display devices such as a monitor that allows the visual presentation of data to a user. More particularly a display device provides for the presentation of GUIs application software data and multimedia presentations for example. The computing system may also include one or more multimedia devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example. In some embodiments I O interfaces and devices may be included on call originator systems.

In the embodiment of the I O devices and interfaces provide a communication interface to various external devices. In the embodiment of the computing system is electronically coupled to a network which comprises one or more of a LAN WAN and or the Internet for example via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link . The network communicates with various computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired or wireless communication links.

In general the word module also referred to herein as a component as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C and or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software modules configured for execution on computing devices may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive or any other tangible medium. Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory device of the executing computing device such as the computing system for execution by the computing device. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

It is also recognized that the term remote may include data objects devices components and or modules not stored locally that is not accessible via the local bus. Thus remote data may include data on a device which is physically stored in the same room and connected to the user s device via a network. In other situations a remote device may also be located in a separate geographic area such as for example in a different location country and so forth.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computer systems or computer processors comprising computer hardware. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical disc and or the like. The systems and modules may also be transmitted as generated data signals for example as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms for example as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as for example volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and sub combinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

All of the methods and processes described above may be embodied in and partially or fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers. For example the methods described herein may be performed by the target management system and or any other suitable computing device. The methods may be executed on the computing devices in response to execution of software instructions or other executable code read from a tangible computer readable medium. A tangible computer readable medium is a data storage device that can store data that is readable by a computer system. Examples of computer readable mediums include read only memory random access memory other volatile or non volatile memory devices CD ROMs magnetic tape flash drives and optical data storage devices.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. The foregoing description details certain embodiments. It will be appreciated however that no matter how detailed the foregoing appears in text the systems and methods can be practiced in many ways. As is also stated above it should be noted that the use of particular terminology when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being re defined herein to be restricted to including any specific characteristics of the features or aspects of the systems and methods with which that terminology is associated.

The various embodiments discussed above refer to initiating calls at the direction of a call originator such as a sales agent. In some embodiments the target management system may be configured to initiate calls automatically on behalf of a company or may be configured to make automated telephone calls. For example the system may select caller ID information for placing calls to call targets with automated or computerized communications.

