---

title: Location-based VoIP functions in a wireless network
abstract: A wireless network can include one or more nodes distributed throughout a physical environment. The locations of client devices within the wireless network can be determined based on observing measurements of wireless signals exchanged between the nodes and the client devices. In some example embodiments, the capability of determining location information of client devices more accurately can be utilized for enhancing Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) functions. In an example embodiment, a phone call can be intelligently routed to where the user is located within the wireless network. In another example embodiment, more accurate location information can be provided to emergency response personnel in the event of an emergency. In another example embodiment, the volume of a VoIP-enabled client device can be adjusted depending on the proximity of other users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642167&OS=09642167&RS=09642167
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09642167
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151217
---
The subject matter of this disclosure relates in general to the field of computer networks and more specifically to providing location based functions for client devices in a wireless network.

A wireless network may include a gateway that can connect to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet wireless access points APs that may communicate with the gateway and provide network connectivity for client devices and the client devices such as a server desktop computer or workstation laptop tablet desk phone smartphone wearable device or other device capable of electronically transmitting and receiving audio video and or other data over a distance. An advantage of a wireless network may be convenience. The wireless network can be implemented with little to no physical infrastructure such as extensive and complex cabling racking high density cooling etc. Once a connection to the WAN is established the APs may be capable of providing network access to the client devices within a geographic area that may be limited only by the distribution of the APs.

Another advantage of a wireless network may be the capability to approximate a physical location of a client device such as by using received signal strength measurements as a proxy for distance to one or more APs whose locations are known. For example the location of the client device can be determined from a strength time of flight time difference of arrival or angle of arrival of signals received at APs using techniques such as lateration angulation pattern matching or fingerprinting among others.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of example embodiments and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject matter of this disclosure can be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a more thorough understanding of the subject matter of this disclosure. However it will be clear and apparent that the subject matter of this disclosure is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject matter of this disclosure.

A network controller located remotely from a wireless network of an enterprise network can be used to manage the wireless network. The wireless network can include one or more nodes such as wireless access points and or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacons distributed throughout a physical environment. The network controller can be configured to determine the physical locations of each client device such as a server desktop computer laptop tablet desk phone smartphone wearable device or other electronic device within the wireless network. For example the network controller can cause the nodes of the wireless network and a client device to exchange wireless signals to capture measurements relating to a time of arrival time difference of arrival and or a received signal strength. The network controller can apply techniques such as lateration angulation pattern matching fingerprinting and or other methods for determining location to the captured measurements to determine the positions of the client devices in the wireless network.

In some example embodiments the network controller can function as a location engine to enhance existing features or add new features for Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP functionality implemented in the enterprise network. In an example embodiment the enterprise network can receive a phone call intended for a phone number or network address e.g. uniform resource identifier URI IP address MAC address etc. associated with a first VoIP enabled client device. The enterprise network can intelligently route the phone call based on the location of a user associated with the first VoIP enabled client device. For example if the user is proximate to the first VoIP enabled client device the phone call can be routed to that device. On the other hand if the user is not proximate to the first VoIP enabled client device the enterprise network can determine a second VoIP enabled client device most proximate to the user and forward the phone call to the second device. In this manner features such as call forwarding call pick up follow me and the like can be improved based on location information of a user or a client device associated with the user.

In another example embodiment the enterprise network can receive via enterprise infrastructure an emergency phone call from a VoIP enabled client device associated with a user. The enterprise network can determine the location of the user making the emergency phone call and provide the location information to emergency phone call dispatchers and emergency response personnel for handling the emergency. In another example embodiment the enterprise network can determine whether there are other users within the vicinity of the user. If the user is proximate to other users a volume of a VoIP enabled client device associated with the user can be muted or lowered so as not to disturb those other users when a phone call public address message intercom message or other audible communication is sent to VoIP enabled client device. Other functions and advantages are described and suggested below in accordance with the various example embodiments.

A computer network is a geographically distributed collection of nodes interconnected by communication links and segments for transporting data between endpoints such as personal computers and workstations. Many types of networks are available with the types ranging from local area networks LANs and WANs to overlay networks and software defined networks SDNs .

LANs typically connect nodes over dedicated private communications links located in the same general physical location such as a building or campus. WANs on the other hand typically connect geographically dispersed nodes over long distance communications links such as common carrier telephone lines optical lightpaths synchronous optical networks SONET or synchronous digital hierarchy SDH links. LANs and WANs can include layer 2 L2 and or layer 3 L3 networks and devices.

The Internet is an example of a WAN that connects disparate networks throughout the world providing global communication between nodes on various networks. The nodes typically communicate over the network by exchanging discrete frames or packets of data according to predefined protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . In this context a protocol can refer to a set of rules defining how the nodes interact with each other. Computer networks may be further interconnected by an intermediate network node such as a router to extend the effective size of each network.

Overlay networks generally allow virtual networks to be created and layered over a physical network infrastructure. Overlay network protocols such as virtual extensible LAN VXLAN network virtualization using generic routing encapsulation NVGRE network virtualization Overlays NVO3 and stateless transport tunneling STT provide a traffic encapsulation scheme which allows network traffic to be carried across L2 and L3 networks over a logical tunnel. Such logical tunnels can be originated and terminated through virtual tunnel end points VTEPs .

Overlay networks can also include virtual segments such as VXLAN segments in a VXLAN overlay network which can include virtual L2 and or L3 overlay networks over which virtual machines VMs communicate. The virtual segments can be identified through a virtual network identifier VNI such as a VXLAN network identifier which can specifically identify an associated virtual segment or domain.

Network virtualization allows hardware and software resources to be combined in a virtual network. For example network virtualization can allow multiple numbers of VMs to be attached to the physical network via respective virtual LANs VLANs . The VMs can be grouped according to their respective VLAN and can communicate with other VMs as well as other devices on the internal or external network.

Cloud computing can also be provided in a network to provide computing services using shared resources. Cloud computing can generally include Internet based computing in which computing resources are dynamically provisioned and allocated to client or user computers or other devices on demand from a collection of resources available via the network or the cloud. Cloud computing resources can include any type of infrastructure resource such as a computing storage and or networking instance. For example infrastructure resources may include network devices firewalls deep packet inspectors traffic monitors load balancers etc. compute processing devices servers CPUs GPUs random access memory caches etc. and storage devices e.g. network attached storages storage area network devices hard disk drives solid state devices etc. . Cloud computing resources can also include a combination of infrastructure resources to provide users higher level services or applications such as a database service software development platform content delivery network CDN enterprise email system collaboration tool e.g. WebEx from Cisco Inc. of San Jose Calif. customer relationship management CRM software network management system e.g. Meraki platform from Cisco etc.

The network environment can include a network management cloud a private cloud a WAN interconnecting the network management cloud the private cloud and third party clouds and the third party clouds for providing various third party content and services such as email media content e.g. video music gaming etc. online banking social networking etc. The network management cloud can host a network management system for administering a wireless LAN WLAN in the private cloud . The cloud hosted network management system may be configured to manage the configuration and operation of various devices in a LAN such as the WLAN and or across geographically distributed portions of a VLAN.

A secure connection can be established between the network management cloud and the private cloud via a management cloud gateway in the management cloud and a private cloud gateway in the private cloud. In addition to establishing the secure connection the management cloud gateway and the private cloud gateway can also provide network services such as routing firewalling VPN load balancing WAN acceleration content filtering etc. In an example embodiment the management cloud gateway and or the private cloud gateway can be implemented using Meraki MX Family security appliances.

The secure connection can be used by devices of the network management system and the WLAN to exchange management data e.g. configuration statistical or monitoring data . The secure connection can be implemented in various ways such as utilizing VPN or L2 tunneling protocols. In an example embodiment an open VPN e.g. OpenVPN overlay or an IP Security IPSec VPN based L3 network extension can be used to provide the secure connection . In another example embodiment a secure transport layer i.e. L4 tunnel can be used as the secure connection between the management cloud gateway and the private cloud gateway such as by utilizing Transport Layer Security TLS Datagram TLS DTLS Secure Socket Layer SSL etc. across the WAN .

The secure connection may utilize portions of the WAN . For example packets that are transmitted via the secure connection can be marked and or contain header fields that enable the prioritization of the secure tunnel packets on at least some portions of the WAN . In some example embodiments the prioritization of the secure tunnel packets can include the use of private dedicated routing paths between the network management system and the WLAN to reduce latency and or improve reliability.

The cloud hosted network management system can include a management database and network management server . The network management server can manage cloud operations client communications service provisioning network configuration and monitoring etc. The management database may store configuration information statistics monitoring information and other management data relating to the WLAN . In an example embodiment the cloud hosted network management system can be implemented using the Meraki platform.

The private cloud may include a private cloud gateway and the WLAN which can comprise access switch APs and client devices such as a desk phone desktop computer smartphone and laptop collectively client devices . As discussed the client devices can also include servers tablets wearable devices or other devices capable of electronically transmitting and receiving audio video and or other data over a distance. Each of the client devices can include one or more processors one or more types of memory a display and or other user interface components such as a keyboard touch screen display mouse track pad digital camera and or any number of peripheral devices or components to add functionality for the client device. The client devices can also be capable of protocol processing modulation demodulation data buffering power control routing switching clock recovery amplification decoding and or error control.

The access switch can function as a LAN interface between the private cloud gateway and the APs . In an example embodiment the access switch can be implemented as a physical device or physical devices separate from the private cloud gateway such as one or more Meraki MS family switches for the access switch and a Meraki MX Family security appliance for the private cloud gateway . In another example embodiment the access switch may be integrated with the private cloud gateway and the integrated device can be implemented using a Meraki MX Family security appliance.

The APs can provide network access to the client devices in the WLAN . The APs can be configured to communicate and operate in accordance with configuration instructions software and or firmware updates and rules provided by the network management system . The network management system and or the APs may also be capable of estimating a physical location of each client device . In an example embodiment a serving AP connected to a client device for providing network connectivity to the client device can send a measurement request action frame to the client device which may cause the client device to transmit a broadcast probe request frame. The broadcast probe request frame can be received by any AP within range of the client device including the serving AP. Each AP that receives the broadcast probe request frame may respond by sending a probe response frame to the client device . These probe response frames may be in accordance with the IEEE 802.11 standard and can include signal strength information representing the strength that each AP measured for the broadcast probe request frame that it received from the client device . The client device may then bundle all of the probe response frames together into a measurement report action frame that can be sent to one or more of the APs or the network management system . Upon receiving the measurement report action frame one or more of the APs or the network management system can evaluate the probe response frames and determine the location of the client device based on information contained in each of the probe response frames representing the signal strength between the client device and each of the APs. Alternatively one or more of the APs can forward the signal strength information to another computing device or system such as another one or more of the APs and or the network management system . In an example embodiment the APs can be implemented using Meraki MR Family APs. In other example embodiments other wireless technologies can be used such as Bluetooth ZigBee Wireless Universal Serial Bus USB or ultra wide band UWB or other radio frequency RF infrared IR ultrasonic or other wireless technology.

A secure connection can be established between the management network gateway and the private network gateway through the WAN to enable the network controller and the client device to exchange management traffic. That is the management data may flow between the management network and the private network over the secure connection . User data however does not flow through the management network and can instead flow to its destination in the private network or across the WAN to third party networks such as third party clouds of .

The network controller remotely hosted in the management network can serve as a network management system for managing and controlling elements of the management network and the private network including the private network gateway and or client device . For example the network controller can manage various cloud services such as provisioning cloud resources in the management network configuring and updating the cloud resources monitoring the cloud resources implementing high availability and failover for the cloud resources enforcing security and compliance for the cloud resources etc. The network controller can also send network data to and receive the network data from the client device to facilitate configuration of the client device monitor the private network and status information of elements of the private network such as the secure connection the private network gateway access switches e.g. access switch of APs e.g. APs of etc. and administer the private network and the elements of the private network.

The network controller can include several components or modules such as a management layer communication interface dashboard data network component and location determination component . These modules may be implemented as hardware and or software components. Although illustrates an example configuration of the various components of the network controller those of skill in the art will understand that the components of network controller or any device described herein can be configured in a number of different ways and can include any other type and number of components. For example the management layer and the network component can belong to one software module or multiple separate modules. Other modules can also be combined into fewer components and or further divided into more components.

The management layer can include logic to perform management operations. For example the management layer can include logic to allow the various components of the network controller to interface and work together. The management layer can also include logic functions software and procedures to allow the network controller to perform monitoring management control and administration of other devices the client device applications in the private network services provided to the client device or any other component or procedure. The management layer can include logic to operate the network controller and perform particular services configured on the network controller . The management layer may also initiate enable or launch other instances in the network controller . In an example embodiment the management layer can also provide authentication and security services for the management network network controller private network client device and or any other device or component. Further the management layer can manage nodes resources VMs settings policies protocols communications etc.

The communication interface may allow the network controller to communicate with the client device as well as any other device or network. The communication interface can be a network interface card NIC and can include wired and or wireless capabilities. The communication interface may allow the network controller to send and receive data from other devices and networks. The network controller can include multiple communications interfaces for redundancy or failover. For example the network controller can include dual NICs for connection redundancy.

The dashboard can provide a frontend that clients can utilize to access or consume cloud services. For instance the dashboard can provide a web based frontend where clients can configure client devices or private networks that are cloud managed provide user preferences specify policies enter data upload statistics configure interactions or operations etc. The dashboard may also provide visibility information such as views of the private network or the client device . For example the dashboard can provide a view of the status or conditions of the private network the operations taking place services performance a topology or layout specific network devices protocols implemented running processes errors notifications alerts network structure ongoing communications data analysis etc.

In an example embodiment the dashboard can provide a graphical user interface GUI for a user to monitor the private network devices statistics errors notifications etc. and make modifications or setting changes through the GUI. The GUI can depict charts lists tables maps topologies symbols structures or any graphical object or element. In addition the GUI can use color font shapes or any other characteristics to depict scores alerts or conditions. In an example embodiment the dashboard can also handle user or client requests. For instance a user or the client device can enter a service request through the dashboard .

The data can include any data or information such as management data statistics settings preferences profile data logs notifications attributes configuration parameters client information network information etc. For example the network controller can collect network statistics from the client device and store the statistics as part of the data . The data may also include performance and or configuration information and the network controller can use the data to perform management or service operations for the client device . The data may be stored on a storage or memory device on the network controller a separate storage device connected to the network controller or a remote storage device in communication with the network controller .

The network component can perform networking calculations such as network addressing or networking service or operations such as auto VPN configuration or traffic routing. The network component may also perform filtering functions switching functions failover functions high availability functions network or device deployment functions resource allocation functions messaging functions traffic analysis functions port configuration functions mapping functions packet manipulation functions path calculation functions loop detection cost calculation error detection or otherwise manipulate data or network devices. In an example embodiment the network component can handle networking requests from other networks or devices and establish links between devices. In another example embodiment the network component can perform queueing messaging or protocol operations.

The location determination component can be used to determine a location of each client device in the private network . Various approaches can be utilized to determine the location of the client device including a cell based lateration based angulation base pattern matching based or fingerprinting based techniques. A cell based technique can include the cell of origin approach wherein the client device can be tracked based on the cell or receiving device e.g. AP of to which the client device associates. Another cell based technique to estimate the location of the client device can include a nearest cell approach. In the nearest cell technique the client device may obtain received signal strength indications RSSIs from each cell within its vicinity and the client device can be determined to be located within the cell having the highest RSSI. An advantage of cell based approaches can be ease of implementation and fast performance. However cell based approaches may only be capable of providing location at a very coarse granularity. Further client devices may not necessarily be associated to cells that are in closest physical proximity to the devices such as when the client devices are located in a multi story structure where there may be considerable floor to floor cell overlap.

Lateration based or distance based approaches for determining the location of the client device can include techniques that utilize time of arrival ToA time difference of arrival TDoa or received signal strength RSS . A ToA system can be based on the measurement of the arrival time of a signal transmitted from a client device to each receiving device e.g. AP . As signals can travel with a known velocity e.g. approximately the speed of light or 300 meters per microsecond the distance between the client device and each receiving device can be determined from the elapsed propagation time of the signal traveling between them. From knowledge of both propagation speed and measured time it may be possible to calculate the distance between the client device and the receiving device. With the distance used as a radius a circular representation of the area around the receiving device can be constructed for which the location of the client device is highly probable. ToA information from two receiving devices can resolve a client device location to two equally probable points. ToA tri lateration can make use of three receiving devices and multi lateration can make use of four or more receiving devices to allow the client device location to be resolved with improved accuracy. ToA techniques may be capable of resolving location in two dimensional as well as three dimensional planes. For instance three dimensional resolution can be performed by constructing spherical models instead of circular models. A drawback of the ToA approach may be the requirement for precise time synchronization of all of the devices especially the client device. Given the high propagation speeds very small discrepancies in time synchronization can result in very large errors in location accuracy.

TDoA techniques can use relative time measurements at each receiving device in place of absolute time measurements. Thus TDoA may not require the use of a synchronized time source at the point of transmission i.e. the client device in order to resolve timestamps and determine location. With TDoA a transmission with an unknown starting time can be received at various receiving devices with only the receivers requiring time synchronization. TDoA implementations can be rooted upon a mathematical concept known as hyperbolic lateration. In this approach at least three time synchronized receiving devices may be required. For example the client devices can transmit a message to receiving devices A and B e.g. AP A and AP B this message can arrive at receiver A with time Tand at receiver B with time T. The TDoA for this message can be calculated between the locations of receivers A and B as the positive constant k 

The value of TDoAcan be used to construct a hyperbola with foci at the locations of receivers A and B. This hyperbola may represent the locus of all the points in the x y plane the difference of whose distances from the two foci is equal to k c meters. Mathematically this represents all possible locations of the client device such that 

The probable location of the client device can then be represented by a point along this hyperbola. To further resolve the location of the client device a third receiving device C can be used to calculate the message time difference of arrival between the receivers C and A or 

Knowledge of the constant kcan allow for the construction of a second hyperbola representing the locus of all the points in the x y plane the difference of whose distances from the two foci i.e. the receivers A and C can be equal to k c meters. Mathematically this can be seen as representing all possible locations of the client device such that 1 

A fourth receiving device and third hyperbola may be added as an enhancement to perform TDoA hyperbolic multi lateration. This may be required to solve for cases where there may be more than one solution when using TDoA hyperbolic tri lateration.

Lateration can also be performed by using RSS in place of time. With this approach RSS can be measured by either the client device or the receiving device. Knowledge of the transmitter output power cable losses and antenna gains as well as the appropriate path loss model may allow for resolution of the distance between the two devices.

where PL can represent the total path loss experienced between the receiver and the client device in dB PLcan represent the reference path loss in dB for the desired frequency when the receiver to transmitter distance is 1 meter d can represent the distance between the client device and receiver in meters n can represent the path loss exponent for the environment and s can represent the standard deviation associated with the degree of shadow fading present in the environment in dB.

In an example embodiment given known quantities for transmit power path loss antenna gain and cable losses receiver signal strength can be calculated as Loss Gain Gain Loss

Replacing the path loss equation above and solving for d yields 10 Loss Gain Gain Loss 10 where Rxcan represent the detected receive signal strength in dB Txcan represent the transmitter output power in dB Losscan represent the sum of all transmit side cable and connector losses in dB Gaincan represent the transmit side antenna gain in dBi Losscan represent the sum of all receive side cable and connector losses in dB and Gaincan represent the receive side antenna gain in dBi.

Solving for the distance between the receiver and client device can allow a circular area to be plotted around the location of the receiver using the distance d as the radius. The location of the client device can be estimated to be somewhere on this circular plot. As in other techniques input from other receivers can be used to perform RSS tri lateration or RSS multi lateration to further refine location accuracy.

Angulation based or angle based techniques for determining a client device location can utilize the angle of incidence at which signals arrive at receiving devices e.g. APs . Geometric relationships can then be used to estimate location from the intersection of two lines of bearing LoBs formed by a radial line to each receiving device. In a two dimensional plane at least two receiving devices may be required for location estimation with improved accuracy coming from at least three or more receiving devices triangulation or multi angulation . In an example embodiment multiple element antenna arrays can be used to sample the receiving signal. Electronic switching can be performed between arrays or portions of each array and mathematical computations handled by a background computing system can be used to extract the angles of incidence. This technique may involve calculating TDoA between elements of the array by measuring the difference in received phase at each element. In a properly constructed array there may be a small but discernible per element arrival time and a difference in phase. Sometimes referred to as reverse beam forming this technique can involve measuring the arrival time of the signal at each element computing the TDoA between array elements and converting this information to an angle of arrival AoA measurement. This may be possible because the signal from each element is time delayed phase shifted to steer the gain of the antenna array in beam forming. A drawback of an AoA approach may be its susceptibility to multipath interference. Although AoA techniques may work well in sites with a direct line of sight such approaches can suffer from decreased accuracy and precision in sites with signal reflections from surrounding objects.

Location patterning can be based on the sampling and recording of signal behavior patterns in specific environments. Location patterning techniques assume that each potential device location possesses a distinctly unique signal signature and that each floor or subsection of a site possesses unique signal propagation characteristics. In some example embodiments location patterning can be based on RSSI signatures. In other example embodiments pattern recognition can be extended to include ToA AoA and or TDoA based signatures. Deployment of patterning based positioning systems can typically be divided into two phases calibration and operation.

During the calibration phase data can be accumulated by performing a walk around of the site with the client device and allowing multiple receiving devices e.g. APs to sample the signal strength of the client device. A graphical representation of the area to be calibrated can be overlaid with a set of grid points or notations to guide the operator in determining precisely where sample data should be acquired. At each sample location the array or location vector of RSS values associated with the calibration device can be recorded into a database known as a radio map or training set. The size of the vector for this sample can be determined by the number of the receiving devices that can detect the client device .

Due to fading and other phenomena the observed signal strength of the client device at a particular location may vary over time. As a result calibration phase approaches may record many samples of signal strength for the client device during the sampling process. Depending on technique the actual vector array element recorded may account for this variation using one or more approaches. In an example embodiment the array element associated with any specific receiver can be represented as the mean signal strength of all measurements of the client device made by that receiver for the reported sample coordinates. The location vector can therefore represent a vector array of mean signal strength elements.

In the operational phase a group of receiving devices can provide signal strength measurements pertaining to the client device and forward that information to a location tracking server. The location server can use a complex positioning algorithm and the radio map database to estimate the location of the client device . The server may then report the location estimate to the location client application requesting the positioning information. The location patterning positioning algorithms can be classified into three groups deterministic probabilistic or other algorithms.

Deterministic algorithms attempt to find the minimum statistical signal distance between a detected RSSI location vector and the location vectors of the various calibration sample points. Distance measurements can be based on the computation of Euclidean Manhattan or Mahalanobis distances. Probabilistic algorithms can use probability inferences to determine the likelihood of a particular location given that a particular location vector array has already been detected. The calibration database may be considered as an a priori conditional probability distribution by the algorithm to determine the likelihood of a particular location occurrence. Probabilistic algorithms can be based on Bayesian probability inferences. Other techniques can include decision trees ensembles e.g. bagging boosting random forest nearest neighbor linear regression neural networks support vector machines SVM and other classification techniques.

Fingerprinting based approaches for determining client device location combine the simplicity of a lateration based approach with the customized calibration capabilities and indoor performance previously available only in location patterning solutions. For example fingerprinting can involve lateration calculations using signal propagation models developed from propagation data gathered directly from the target environment or similar environments. In addition fingerprinting can generate a model of a particular environment in a fashion similar to but that may be more expeditious than location patterning.

In addition to the use of prepackaged propagation models fingerprinting can be used to develop customized models that are based on on site data collection. This process may allow for the overall attenuation characteristics of the actual environment to be taken into consideration during the derivation of both 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz path loss models. For each calibration grid location the physical location coordinates of the client device can be recorded along with the RSS s from three or more receiving devices.

The data accumulated during the calibration phase can be statistically processed and groomed then used to build a propagation model for predicting the client device s RSSI around each receiving device where the path loss exponent shadow fading standard deviation and PLvalues can be calculated from the sample calibration data in order to reflect specific propagation anomalies present in the environment. This process can include several computational cycles where the parameters for lateration can be calculated for each band. The minimum mean square error MMSE estimation technique can be used to obtain the initial values for the parameters.

To locate the client device during the operational phase of fingerprinting RSS multi lateration can be performed using either a pre packaged model or a customized model created during the calibration phase. This process can yield the coordinates of the data point with the highest potential of correctly representing the client device s current location. Additional information gleaned from statistical analysis of the distribution of calibration data can be used to further improve location accuracy and precision.

In the example embodiment of the client device is a smartphone but it will be appreciated that the client device can be any other device capable of electronically transmitting and receiving audio video and or other data over a distance such as a server desktop computer laptop tablet desk phone or wearable device. The client device can include a carrier band telephony app for making phone calls through a network of a cellular carrier. The client device can also include a Wi Fi telephony app to enable the client device to make phone calls through infrastructure of the private network . For example the Wi Fi telephony app may include a VoIP component that can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software to provide Internet based telephony for the client device .

One or more of the APs may have a wired connection to a LAN interface not shown for access to an external network and access by a network controller such as the network controller of . In an example embodiment one or more of the APs may be connected to an access switch e.g. access switch of which may be connected to a gateway e.g. private cloud gateway of for access to the external network such as an ISP or the Internet. In another example embodiment one or more of the APs may be directly connected to a gateway which can provide the APs with access to the external network. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art various other network configurations can be deployed to provide the APs with access to the external network.

In an example embodiment can represent one of the interfaces of a dashboard such as the dashboard of . As an example the dashboard can include a graphical user interface that displays a floor plan in which the WLAN is located and the interface can include graphical elements corresponding to where elements of the WLAN are located in the floor plan. These graphical elements can correspond to locations of access switches e.g. access switch of the APs the client devices and other elements of the WLAN. In an example embodiment a user s client device last detected to move in the WLAN can be a proxy for the location of the user.

The dashboard can also include a heat map indicating the wireless strength signals of the nodes of the WLAN of environment . In an example embodiment the heat map can be utilized for determining the placement of new APs or other nodes. For instance the dashboard can display a graphical element indicating an optimal placement for a new AP or other node to maximize the wireless signal strength of the WLAN cumulatively or minimize the cold zones . The graphical element can be a geolocation e.g. longitude latitude or other coordinates of a point or a geographical region e.g. a circular geographical region with a geolocation or other coordinates of a point as an origin and a specified radius or a convex or concave polygon defined by multiple geolocations or other coordinates of multiple points .

In some example embodiments full coverage i.e. the entirety of an environment being within the wireless ranges of three or more APs or other devices for facilitating location determination can be obtained in an environment by distributing beacons in zones such as illustrated in . Beacons are typically small inexpensive low power electronic devices that can broadcast small amounts of data wirelessly over a distance. However any electronic device that can broadcast wireless data over a distance may also act as beacons including a server desktop computer laptop tablet desk phone smartphone wearable device etc.

In some example embodiments the beacons can implement the Bluetooth Low Energy BLE protocol. BLE beacons can operate in various modes depending on configuration such as broadcast mode scan mode controller mode or peripheral mode. In the broadcast mode the BLE beacon can periodically transmit broadcast data and may respond with more information upon request from another device. In the scan mode the BLE beacon can listen for broadcast data transmitted by other devices and may request additional information if operating in active scan mode. In controller mode the BLE beacon can scan for broadcast data and send a connection request upon receiving broadcast data from a BLE enabled device. In the peripheral mode the BLE beacon can broadcast data and allow a connection upon receiving a connection request. In the peripheral mode the BLE beacon may only have connection at a time while a BLE in the controller mode may have multiple connections with BLE beacons in the peripheral mode.

BLE beacons may consume less power particularly compared to other Bluetooth standards by residing in sleep mode a majority of the time and waking briefly to broadcast or scan for data. illustrates an example packet that a beacon such as one of the beacon of can broadcast and or scan in accordance with an example embodiment. Generally the BLE packet can include a 1 byte preamble a 4 byte access address a 2 byte packet header a packet payload of various sizes up to 37 bytes and a 3 byte cyclic redundancy check CRC . The preamble can be used for synchronization and timing estimation at a receiving device such as one of the client devices of . The access address can correlate with an RF channel number used by the BLE beacon. The packet header can be used to describe the packet type. The CRC can be an error detecting code that may be used to validate data integrity for the packet .

Different packet types can be sent depending on if the packet is transmitted over a broadcast channel or a data channel. A packet can be sent over the broadcast channel for carrying the BLE beacon s discovery and connection establishment information. For example the broadcast channel packet can comprise a broadcast channel payload that may include payloads of various sizes such as a scanner request response or a connection initiation payload . Further an active scanner may request up to 31 additional bytes from the broadcasting beacon if the broadcast mode on the beacon allows such an operation. Thus a sizable portion of data can be received from the broadcasting beacon even without establishing a connection.

When a connection is established a packet can be transmitted over the data channel for carrying link control data and payloads for higher lever protocols. For instance a data channel packet can comprise a data channel payload and optional message integrity check MIC data if a link layer connection is encrypted. The data channel payload can comprise a link layer control LLC that can include an LLC opcode and LLC data a low energy LLC and Adaptation LE L2CAP signaling channel a Security Manager protocol payload or an attribute protocol .

A BLE beacon operating in controller mode can provide channel and timing of a data exchange between the BLE beacon operating in the controller mode and a BLE beacon operating in the peripheral mode. The channel and timing information can include a connection interval and latency. The connection interval can specify a time between the start of the data packet exchange sequence or connection events. Latency on the other hand can be a number of communication intervals that the BLE beacon operating in the peripheral mode may ignore without losing the connection. Latency can give the BLE beacon operating in the peripheral mode an opportunity to optimize and preserve power consumption.

The BLE beacon operating in the controller mode can also initiate each communication event to serve as an anchor point to calculate the time for the next event. During a communication event the BLE beacon operating in the controller mode and the BLE beacon operating in the peripheral mode can alternate sending and receiving packets until either side stops sending packets at which point the current event may be considered closed and the data exchange can be suspended until the next communication event.

In the BLE protocol broadcast intervals can be set in a range of 20 ms to 10 s. The broadcast interval can specify an amount of time between consecutive broadcast packets. Broadcasting can be performed sequentially on all the enabled channels. In the scan mode the BLE beacon may specify a scan window which can determine the duration of the scan as well as the scan interval.

A BLE beacon can use a DC power supply batteries solar power kinetics harvesting etc. The maximum output specified by the BLE protocol is 10 decibel milliwatt dBm which can enable the BLE beacons to have wireless ranges for up to several hundred meters. The BLE beacons may operate in the 2.4 GHz frequency band and can use channels in that band to avoid collision with commonly used Wi Fi channels.

Returning to the BLE beacons can be seen dispersed proximate to zones to enable each client device located in a zone to be within the wireless ranges of three or more APs or beacons in order to determine the location of the client device positioned in the zone more accurately. A network controller one or more of the APs one or more of the client devices and or another device in the environment can manage the APs and the beacons for determining the location of each client device within the environment . In one example embodiment the locations of the beacons may be known. For example the networker controller or other device for facilitating determination of a location i.e. location determination system can generate a heat map based on the wireless signal strength of APs such as shown in . A network administrator can utilize the heat map to place the beacons in cold zones and record the placements of the beacons. The known locations of the APs and beacons may be treated as anchor nodes and the location of the client device can be treated as a non anchor node in determining the position of the client device. Thus the networker controller or other location determination system may be capable of calculating the position of the client device in one of the zones more accurately than one of the cold zones shown in .

In another example embodiment only the locations of APs may be known. The location of the client device can be estimated jointly with the locations of the beacons . For instance the locations of the APs can be treated as anchor nodes and the locations of the beacons and the client device can be treated as non anchor nodes in determining the location of the client device. The network controller or other location determination system can obtain RSSIs or other measurement data based on wireless transmissions between the client device and one of the APs the beacons and the client device and the beacons and APs . Based on the obtained measurement data the network controller or other location determination system can calculate the position of each beacon . Once all of the beacons have been located the network controller or other location determination system can calculate the position of each client device .

In an example embodiment the network controller or other location determination system may first calculate the position of the client devices and subsequently compute the positions of the beacons . In another example embodiment the network controller or other location determination system can alternate between initially resolving the positions of the client devices and beacons . In yet another example embodiment once the positions of the beacons have been calculated the network controller or other location determination system may save the positions of the beacons as known positions and only update the positions of the client devices .

In this manner the network controller or other location determination system can use additional information to locate the beacons to enhance the accuracy of the determined positions of the client device . By using measurement information obtained from the transmissions between the APs and the beacons the client device and the AP and the beacons and the client device the network controller or other location determination system can provide location based functions to the client device based on a more accurate position of the client device.

In some example embodiments accurate location information can be coupled with a client device s Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP capabilities to provide new features or improve existing features of VoIP enabled client devices. illustrates an example network environment for providing location based functions for VoIP enabled client devices in accordance with an example embodiment. The network environment can include a management network a branch office network a WAN e.g. the Internet and a campus network . The campus network and the branch office network can form an enterprise network. The management network can represent a simplified configuration of the network management cloud of or the management network of . A secure connection can be established between the management network and the branch office network through the WAN via a management network gateway not shown in the management network and a branch office network gateway in the branch office network . A user may access the management network through an interface not shown of the management network such as a web based GUI client application GUI command line interface application programming interface API etc. to control and monitor various components of the management network and the branch office network including the secure connection the branch office network gateway one or more access switches one or more APs and one or more VoIP enabled client devices . In an example embodiment the interface can be implemented using the Meraki platform.

In the branch office network the VoIP enabled client devices can have wireless connections to the AP or wired connections to the access switch which in turn can connect to the branch office network gateway for providing the VoIP enabled client devices connectivity to the WAN . In an example embodiment the branch office network gateway can be implemented using a Meraki MX Family security appliance the access switch can be implemented using a Meraki MS family switch and the AP can be implemented using a Meraki MR Family AP. In some example embodiments the branch office network can also include beacons such as the BLE beacons of dispersed throughout the branch office to enable the location of the user to be more accurately detected.

The campus network can include a campus network gateway to provide connectivity of various elements of the campus network to the WAN . The campus network gateway can also be used to establish a secure connection with the branch office network gateway to interconnect the campus network and the branch office network . In an example embodiment the campus network gateway can be implemented using the Cisco Aggregation Services Router ASR edge router.

The campus network can also include a firewall between the campus network gateway and a network fabric for providing the client devices connectivity to the WAN . In the example of the network fabric has a hierarchical or multi tiered architecture including one or more core switches in a core layer one or more distribution switches in a distribution layer and one or more access switches in a distribution layer. In an example embodiment the switches of the network fabric can be implemented using Catalyst series switches from Cisco .

In another example embodiment the network fabric can be designed using a two tier Clos architecture. That is the network fabric can be configured as a two tier spine leaf bipartite graph in which each leaf switch connects to each spine switch though a full mesh is not required in some example embodiments and there are no direct connections between leaf switches nor between spine switches. In this example embodiment the switches of the network fabric can be implemented using Cisco Nexus series switches. In other example embodiments various other network configurations can be utilized as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The campus network can also include a security policy management platform that automates and enforces security access to resources of the campus network and the branch network . In an example embodiment the security policy management platform can be implemented as a virtual machine VM or VM cluster operating the Cisco Identity Services Engine ISE . The campus network can also include a call control and routing platform that can provide services such as bandwidth management dial plans directory and identity management services etc. Bandwidth management can provide mechanisms for ensuring voice and video quality and for preventing oversubscription of network bandwidth by limiting the number of calls that are allowed on the network at a given time. Dial plans can provide numbering for VoIP enabled client devices and collectively VoIP enabled client devices dialed digits analysis and classes of restriction to limit types of calls that a user can make. Directory and identity management services can provide applications with a standard method for accessing and potentially modifying the information stored in a directory. Identity management and single sign on can ensure that user access and identification is secure. These capabilities can enable companies to centralize user information in a single repository available to several applications which can provide better access to the information and reduce maintenance costs. In an example embodiment the call control and routing platform can be implemented as a VM or VM cluster operating the Cisco Unified Communications Manager UCM . Although the example of embodiment of illustrates the security policy management platform and the call control and routing platform as located in the campus network it will be appreciated that these systems and other components of the campus network e.g. firewall can reside in the management network or the branch network in other example embodiments.

In an example embodiment more precise location information can be used to improve call forwarding call pick up or follow me features of the VoIP enabled client devices . Conventional approaches for call forwarding call pick up and follow me also sometimes referred to as find me may not take a physical location of a user into account and can require extensive manual configuration. In conventional call forwarding the user must manually set a phone number or network address e.g. uniform resource identifier URI IP address or MAC address to forward calls to the new number or address and manually disable call forwarding to stop operation of this feature. Similarly conventional call pick up requires the user to manually activate the conventional VoIP device to receive a second user s phone calls and manually deactivate this feature to stop receiving the second user s calls. Manually setting and resetting call forwarding and or call pick up can be onerous for the user and oftentimes the user may forget to disable these features such that critical phone calls can be missed.

In conventional follow me or find me the user can manually designate multiple phone numbers or network addresses for receiving a call and each of those devices will simultaneously ring vibrate or otherwise alert the user of an incoming call. This behavior can be jarring for some users as it may be preferable to have a single device receive a call. Thus another conventional approach of implementing follow me or find me is to assign an order and duration for one device to receive the call at a time. For instance a first conventional VoIP enabled client device can be configured to receive an incoming call for 15 seconds then the call may be forwarded to a second conventional VoIP enabled client device for 30 seconds and finally the call may be forwarded to a voice mail application. However callers may hang up before the second conventional VoIP enabled client device or the voice mail application receive the call. VoIP call forwarding or follow me can be improved by relying on location information. For example instead of blindly forwarding to a designated device or multiple devices a phone call can be intelligently forwarded to a single VoIP enabled client device based on the proximity of the user to the device.

Certain conventional systems provide mobility features that enable a user to originate calls from personal VoIP enabled client devices as if the calls were made through the enterprise. This feature can enable centralized billing and call detail records and provide cost savings by ensuring that calls get billed to the enterprise rather than the user s mobile or cellular carrier plan. This mobility feature may also mask the phone number of the user s personal VoIP enabled client device from persons receiving calls. One potential wrinkle with this feature in conventional systems is the situation in which an emergency call is made using a personal VoIP enabled client device through the enterprise infrastructure. Some conventional systems attempt to overcome this problem by requiring the user to confirm or update the user s location but this is an incomplete solution because the user may not be diligent about providing the user s actual physical location. This can create a potential disaster for the user and or emergency response personnel in the event the user makes an emergency call and the user s location is unknown or mapped to the wrong location.

In an example embodiment the call control and routing platform can receive an emergency call originating from the enterprise made from the user s personal VoIP enabled client device . The call control and routing platform may request the position of the user s personal VoIP enabled client device from a network controller or other location determination system of the enterprise network i.e. the campus network and the branch network and map the position to an Emergency Location Identification Number ELIN . An ELIN can be a Direct Inward Dial DID number that a Public Safety Answering Point PSAP operator can dial to reconnect to the user if the emergency call is cut off or if the PSAP operator needs to talk to the user again. The ELIN can map to an emergency response location ERL corresponding to the user s location determined by the network controller or other location determination system. A PSAP operator may be responsible for answering the emergency call and arranging the appropriate emergency response such as sending police fire or ambulance teams. The call control and routing platform can route the call to the PSAP associated with the user s location. In an example embodiment the PSAP operator can search an Automatic Location Identifier ALI database to retrieve the user s location based on the ELIN and send the location information for the user s personal VoIP enabled client device to an emergency operator terminal. In some embodiments additional information can also be sent via a private switch ALI PS ALI . The PS ALI is an enhancement to 911 emergency response systems that enables a telephony system to provide more specific address and location information for each client device. The service may allow a customer generated address table to be loaded into the ALI database so that each client device of the telephony system can be uniquely identified if a call is placed to 911. In an example embodiment the ELIN can be passed directly to the E911 system to pinpoint the precise location of the user. The PSAP operator can then direct emergency response personnel to the correct address building floor room or even cubicle thereby streamlining operations and increasing accuracy.

Certain conventional VoIP enabled client devices provide a do not disturb feature that turns off the volume of a ringer when the user does not want to be disturbed by incoming calls. Some conventional VoIP enable client devices can also work in conjunction with one another to operate as a public address PA or intercom system. A user must manually activate these features on the conventional VoIP enable devices but the user may forget to deactivate these features and miss important calls PA messages intercom messages etc. In an example embodiment location information can be used to avoid some of the problems of the conventional VoIP enabled client devices. For instance a network controller or other location determination system can maintain historical position data associated with a VoIP enabled client device such as a number and identity of users proximate to the VoIP enabled client device. If the network controller or other location determination system detects that there are more than the typical number of users proximate to the VoIP enabled client device or a user not normally associated with or proximate to the VoIP enabled client device it may be assumed that the user s are interacting with the unassociated user and the volume of the VoIP enabled client device can be turned down or muted so as not to disturb interaction between and among the users.

The process can be initiated at step by receiving a voice communication e.g. a phone call videoconferencing request PA message intercom message voicemail message or other communication capable of being received by a VoIP enabled client device e.g. email Short Message Service SMS text message instant messaging IM message etc. intended for a phone number or network address e.g. URI IP address MAC address etc. associated with a user s first VoIP enabled client device. For example a call control and routing platform e.g. call control and routing platform of a network management system e.g. network management system of a network controller e.g. network controller of or similar system can receive a phone call intended for the user s first VoIP enabled client device which can include a desktop computer laptop or tablet incorporating VoIP software an IP desk phone a smartphone or a wearable device capable of performing Wi Fi calling or other client device having a microphone or other input component e.g. keyboard a speaker or other output component e.g. display screen network connectivity and VoIP client software.

In some example embodiments the various location based VoIP functions discussed above with respect to can be activated based on the user being located on premises or located within a wireless range of a WLAN of an enterprise network. Thus the process can continue at step by determining whether the user is physically located somewhere on enterprise grounds. For example the call control and routing platform network management system network controller or similar system can request for the user s location from a network controller e.g. network controller of an AP e.g. AP of a client device e.g. client device of or other location determination system of the enterprise network.

If the user is not on premises the process can proceed to step at which the call control and routing platform network management system network controller or similar system can invoke a default call routing rule to send the call to the user s first VoIP enabled client device and the process may conclude. In some example embodiments the user can be on premises if the user or an associated VoIP enabled client device is located in any WLAN of the enterprise network. For instance the user can be detected as being on premises even if the user typically works out of a main campus of an enterprise but on a particular day visits a remote branch office of the enterprise or vice versa. As another example the user can be on premises even if the user is located in a first WLAN and the first VoIP enabled client device is located in a second WLAN remote to the first WLAN e.g. in a different building or different floors of the same building or a second WLAN local to the first WLAN e.g. on the same floor .

If the user is determined to be on premises the process can proceed to step in which it can be determined whether the user is proximate to the first VoIP enabled client device or within a proximal threshold of the first VoIP enabled client device. In an example embodiment the proximal threshold can be specified by the user. In another example embodiment the proximal threshold can be a value or function applicable to every user such as within a 5 foot 10 foot 15 foot radius or other range relative to the first VoIP enabled client device. It should also be appreciated that the proximal threshold may not be static but can be dynamically based on whether the user is moving toward the first VoIP enabled client device or moving away from the device. The proximal threshold can also be dynamically determined based on factors such as the types or characteristics of the APs e.g. AP of beacons e.g. beacons of and or other devices making up the WLAN in which the user is located a confidence level associated with the determined location of the user environmental factors such as physical obstacles or interference from other electronic devices in the area or other suitable factor known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

If the user is determined to be within the proximal threshold of the first VoIP enabled client device the process can continue to step upon which the call control and routing platform network management system network controller or similar system can invoke the default call routing rule sending the call to the user s first VoIP enabled client device and the process can conclude. On the other hand if the user is determined not to be proximate to the first VoIP enabled client device the process can continue to step at which it is determined whether a second is proximate to the user or a proximity of the second user relative to the user is within a second proximal threshold. If another person is proximate to the user or within the second proximal threshold the process can continue to step at which point a volume of a second VoIP enabled device associated with the user can be adjusted. The process can proceed to step thereafter in which the call can be routed to the second VoIP enabled client device and conclude. It will be appreciated that the second proximal threshold can be configurable and or statically or dynamically defined based on the proximal threshold factors discussed with respect to step . If no other user is determined to be within the second proximal threshold of the user the process can proceed directly to step in which the call may be routed to the second VoIP enabled client device and conclude. In some example embodiments the second VoIP enabled client device can be determined based on the device being most proximate to the user relative to other VoIP enabled devices associated with the user.

In some example embodiments the user can make outbound calls originating from the enterprise network from any VoIP enabled client device. In an example embodiment the user can also make emergency phone calls that originate from the enterprise network from any of the user s VoIP enabled client devices including mobile devices such as laptops tablets smartphones wearable devices etc. For instance one or more portions of a WLAN can each be associated with an emergency location identification number ELIN . Each ELIN and its corresponding location information can be translated for entry into an Automatic Location Identifier ALI database utilized by a public safety answering point PSAP local to the WLAN. After this preliminary configuration the call and routing platform network management system network controller or similar system can receive an emergency call originating from enterprise infrastructure from one of the user s mobile VoIP enabled client devices. The enterprise network can obtain the location of the user s mobile VoIP enabled client device such as by making a request to a network controller e.g. network controller of or other location determination system. The determined location can be mapped to the corresponding ELIN and PSAP. The emergency call can be routed to the corresponding PSAP with the ELIN being used as the Automatic Identification Number AIN . The PSAP can search the ALI database to obtain the location information corresponding to the ELIN and direct emergency response personnel to the correct address building floor room cubicle etc. for responding to the emergency call.

The interfaces can be provided as interface cards sometimes referred to as line cards . The interfaces can control the sending and receiving of data packets over the network and sometimes support other peripherals used with the network device . Among the interfaces that may be provided are Ethernet interfaces frame relay interfaces cable interfaces DSL interfaces token ring interfaces and the like. In addition various very high speed interfaces may be provided such as fast token ring interfaces wireless interfaces Ethernet interfaces Gigabit Ethernet interfaces ATM interfaces HSSI interfaces POS interfaces FDDI interfaces and the like. The interfaces may include ports appropriate for communication with the appropriate media. In some cases the interfaces may also include an independent processor and in some instances volatile RAM. The independent processors may control such communications intensive tasks as packet switching media control and management. By providing separate processors for the communications intensive tasks the interfaces may allow the CPU to efficiently perform routing computations network diagnostics security functions etc.

Although the system shown in is one specific network device of an example embodiment it is by no means the only network device architecture on which the subject technology can be implemented. For example an architecture having a single processor that can handle communications as well as routing computations etc. can also be used. Further other types of interfaces and media could also be used with the network device .

Regardless of the network device s configuration it may employ one or more memories or memory modules including memory configured to store program instructions for the general purpose network operations and mechanisms for roaming route optimization and routing functions described herein. The program instructions may control the operation of an operating system and or one or more applications for example. The memory or memories may also be configured to store tables such as mobility binding registration and association tables etc.

To enable user interaction with the computing system an input device can represent any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems can enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing system . The communications interface can govern and manage the user input and system output. There may be no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

Storage device can be a non volatile memory and can be a hard disk or other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards solid state memory devices digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM and hybrids thereof.

The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device can be connected to the system bus . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function can include the software component stored in a computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus output device and so forth to carry out the function.

The chipset can also interface with one or more communication interfaces that can have different physical interfaces. The communication interfaces can include interfaces for wired and wireless LANs for broadband wireless networks as well as personal area networks. Some applications of the methods for generating displaying and using the GUI disclosed herein can include receiving ordered datasets over the physical interface or be generated by the machine itself by processor analyzing data stored in the storage device or the RAM . Further the computing system can receive inputs from a user via the user interface components and execute appropriate functions such as browsing functions by interpreting these inputs using the processor .

It can be appreciated that computing systems and can have more than one processor and respectively or be part of a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability.

For clarity of explanation in some instances the present technology may be presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks comprising devices device components steps or routines in a method embodied in software or combinations of hardware and software.

In some embodiments the computer readable storage devices mediums and memories can include a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like. However when mentioned non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

Methods according to the above described examples can be implemented using computer executable instructions that are stored or otherwise available from computer readable media. Such instructions can comprise for example instructions and data which cause or otherwise configure a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Portions of computer resources used can be accessible over a network. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language firmware or source code. Examples of computer readable media that may be used to store instructions information used and or information created during methods according to described examples include magnetic or optical disks flash memory USB devices provided with non volatile memory networked storage devices and so on.

Devices implementing methods according to these disclosures can comprise hardware firmware and or software and can take any of a variety of form factors. Typical examples of such form factors include laptops smart phones small form factor personal computers personal digital assistants rackmount devices standalone devices and so on. Functionality described herein also can be embodied in peripherals or add in cards. Such functionality can also be implemented on a circuit board among different chips or different processes executing in a single device by way of further example.

The instructions media for conveying such instructions computing resources for executing them and other structures for supporting such computing resources are means for providing the functions described in these disclosures.

Although a variety of examples and other information was used to explain aspects within the scope of the appended claims no limitation of the claims should be implied based on particular features or arrangements in such examples as one of ordinary skill would be able to use these examples to derive a wide variety of implementations. Further and although some subject matter may have been described in language specific to examples of structural features and or method steps it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to these described features or acts. For example such functionality can be distributed differently or performed in components other than those identified herein. Rather the described features and steps are disclosed as examples of components of systems and methods within the scope of the appended claims.

