---

title: Graphene nanoribbons and carbon nanotubes fabricated from SiC fins or nanowire templates
abstract: Semiconductor structures including parallel graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes oriented along crystallographic directions are provided from a template of silicon carbide (SiC) fins or nanowires. The SiC fins or nanowires are first provided and then graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes are formed on the exposed surfaces of the fin or the nanowires by annealing. In embodiments in which closed carbon nanotubes are formed, the nanowires are suspended prior to annealing. The location, orientation and chirality of the graphene nanoribbons and the carbon nanotubes that are provided are determined by the corresponding silicon carbide fins and nanowires from which they are formed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09431520&OS=09431520&RS=09431520
owner: GLOBALFOUNDRIES INC.
number: 09431520
owner_city: Grand Cayman
owner_country: KY
publication_date: 20150727
---
The present disclosure was made with Government support under Contract No. FA8650 08 C 7838 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government thus has certain rights to this disclosure.

The present disclosure relates to semiconductor structures and methods of fabricating the same. More particularly the present disclosure relates to semiconductor structures including parallel graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes which can be used as device channels oriented along crystallographic directions. The present disclosure also relates to methods of making such semiconductor structures in which the graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes are fabricated from a template of silicon carbide SiC fins or nanowires.

In the semiconductor industry there is a continuing trend toward fabricating integrated circuits ICs with higher densities. To achieve higher densities there has been and continues to be efforts toward down scaling the dimensions of the devices on semiconductor wafers generally produced from bulk silicon or silicon on insulator SOI . These trends are pushing the current technology to its limits.

Very Large Scale Integrated VLSI circuits are typically realized with Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors MOSFETs . As the length of the MOSFET gate is reduced there is a need to thin the SOI body channel so the device maintains good short channel characteristics. Adding a second gate opposite the first gate so the channel is controlled from both opposite faces of the SOI body allows additional scaling of the gate length. The best short channel control is achieved when a gate all around the channel is used.

In view of the above the semiconductor industry is pursuing graphene to achieve some of the aforementioned goals. Graphene which is essentially a flat sheet of carbon atoms is a promising material for radio frequency RF transistors and other electronic transistors. Typical RF transistors are made from silicon or more expensive semiconductors such as for example indium phosphide InP . The measured mobility of electrons in graphene was found to be much higher than for InP or for silicon.

With all its excellent electronic properties graphene is missing a bandgap making it unsuitable for fabrication of digital devices. Transistors fabricated using graphene in the channel would have I Iratios of the order of 10 or less with many more orders of magnitude I Iof approximately 10 still required for proper function of such devices. It has been shown that bandgaps can be created in graphene if fabricated in the form of nanoribbons or a closed carbon nanotube CNT . The size of the bandgap increases with decreasing width of the nanoribbon and for potential practical application the width of the graphene nanoribbons GNR has to be less than 10 nm preferably less than 5 nm.

Fabrication of GNR has been demonstrated before on exfoliated graphene nanoflakes. The prior art for fabrication of GNR is based on patterning and etching usually by RIE of the graphene layer. Such techniques form nanoribbons with non uniform and potentially damaged edges forming line edge roughness LER which deteriorates the electrical quality of the GNR.

CNT field effect transistors are known to have excellent characteristics however accurate placement of the CNTs required for making a very large integrated circuit is very challenging. While some progress has been made by oriented growth of CNTs the achievable CNT to CNT pitch is of the order of a micron. As a benchmark present day devices are made with a pitch of 50 nm 0.05 microns .

The present disclosure addresses the FET scaling requirements by using graphene as the channel material. The use of a graphene sheet allows to fabricate a channel that is thinner than can be made today with SOI. Additionally the devices disclosed in the present disclosure have a double gate to further push scaling. Use of CNT channels which can be thought as rolled up graphene allows the fabrication of gate all around devices.

The present disclosure describes the fabrication of semiconductor structures including parallel graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes oriented along crystallographic directions. The achievable integration density is equivalent to that obtained in state of the art silicon technology since the graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes are fabricated from a template of silicon carbide SiC fins or nanowires.

In the present disclosure SiC fins or nanowires are first provided and then graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes are formed on exposed surfaces of the fins or the nanowires by annealing. In embodiments in which closed carbon nanotubes are formed the nanowires are suspended prior to annealing. The location orientation and chirality of the graphene nanoribbons and the carbon nanotubes that are provided in the present disclosure are determined by the corresponding silicon carbide fins and nanowires from which they are formed.

In one embodiment of the present application a semiconductor structure i.e. dual channel finFET is provided that includes at least one silicon carbide fin located on a surface of a substrate. The disclosed structure also includes a graphene nanoribbon located on each bare sidewall of the at least one silicon carbide fin. The disclosed structure further includes a gate structure oriented perpendicular to the at least one silicon carbide fin. The gate structure also overlaps a portion of each graphene nanoribbon and is located atop a portion of the at least one silicon carbide fin. In the disclosed structure the portion of the each graphene nanoribbon overlapped by the gate structure defines a channel region of the semiconductor structure.

In another embodiment of the present application a semiconductor structure is provided that includes at least one silicon fin located on a surface of a substrate. The disclosed structure also includes a silicon carbide fin located on each bare sidewall of the at least one silicon fin and a graphene nanoribbon located on a sidewall of each silicon carbide fin. The disclosed structure further includes a gate structure oriented perpendicular to each silicon carbide fin and the at least one silicon fin. The gate structure also overlaps a portion of each graphene nanoribbon and is located atop a portion of each of the silicon carbide fins and the at least one silicon fin. The portion of the each graphene nanoribbon overlapped by the gate structure defines a channel region of the semiconductor structure.

In a further embodiment of the present application a semiconductor structure is provided that includes at least one pair of spaced apart graphene nanoribbons located on a surface of a substrate. This structure also includes a first gate structure located on one sidewall of each spaced apart graphene nanoribbon wherein the sidewalls of each graphene nanoribbon containing the first gate structure are not facing each other. The structure further includes a planarizing dielectric material located adjacent the first gate structure and at least a gate conductor of a second gate structure located between the at least one pair of spaced apart graphene nanoribbons. In some embodiments an upper portion of the gate conductor of the second gate structure can contact an upper surface of the first gate structure.

In an even further embodiment of the present application a semiconductor structure is provided that includes at least one suspended carbon nanotube located atop a surface of a substrate and a gate structure oriented perpendicular to the at least one suspended carbon nanotube. The gate structure surrounds a portion of the at least one suspended carbon nanotube and portions of the at least one carbon nanotube surrounded by the gate structure define a channel region of the semiconductor structure.

The present disclosure also provides a method of forming a semiconductor structure. The method includes providing at least one silicon carbide fin having at least bare sidewalls on a surface of a substrate. A graphene nanoribbon is formed on each bare sidewall of the silicon carbide fin by annealing at a temperature from 1200 C. up to but not beyond the melting point of the substrate in an ambient such as but not limited to diluted silane. At least a gate structure is formed adjacent the graphene nanoribbon.

The present disclosure which provides semiconductor structures including parallel graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes which can be used as device channels oriented along crystallographic directions and methods of fabricating such structures will now be described in greater detail by referring to the following discussion and drawings that accompany the present application. It is noted that the drawings of the present application are provided for illustrative purposes only and as such the drawings are not drawn to scale. It is also noted that in the drawings like and corresponding elements are referred to using like reference numerals.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as particular structures components materials dimensions processing steps and techniques in order to provide an understanding of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. However it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures or processing steps have not been described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

It will be understood that when an element as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or over another element it can be directly on the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly over another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

As mentioned above the present disclosure provides semiconductor structures including parallel graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes which can be used as device channels oriented along crystallographic directions as well as methods of fabricating such semiconductors structures. The methods of the present disclosure which will be described in further detail herein below form the graphene nanoribbons or carbon nanotubes from a template of silicon carbide fins or nanowires. The location orientation and chirality of the graphene nanoribbons and the carbon nanotubes that are provided in the present disclosure are determined by the corresponding silicon carbide fins and nanowires from which they are formed. As such the methods of the present disclosure can be used in existing semiconductor processing flows and provide a technology in which a dense population of graphene nanoribbons and carbon nanotubes can be selectively placed on a substrate.

Reference is first made to which illustrate one embodiment of the present disclosure in which a dual channel finFET including graphene nanoribbons is provided.

Referring first to there is illustrated a silicon carbide on insulator substrate that can be employed in one embodiment of the present disclosure. The silicon carbide on insulator substrate shown in includes from bottom to top a handle substrate a buried insulating layer and a silicon carbide layer .

The handle substrate of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate may include any semiconducting material or insulating material such as for example Si SiC GaN AlN AlO SiNor other like compound semiconductors or metal oxides. The materials used for handle substrate typically have a melting point higher than 1200 C. Multilayers of these semiconductor materials can also be used as the semiconductor material of the handle substrate . In one embodiment the handle substrate is comprised of silicon. In another embodiment the handle substrate is comprised of silicon carbide.

The handle substrate and the silicon carbide layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate may have the same or different crystal orientation. For example the surface crystal orientation of the handle substrate and the silicon carbide layer may be 100 110 or 111. Other crystallographic orientations besides those specifically mentioned can also be used in the present disclosure. The handle substrate of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate may be a single crystalline semiconductor material a polycrystalline material or an amorphous material. Typically the silicon carbide layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate is a single crystalline semiconductor material.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the handle substrate and or the silicon carbide layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate may be undoped. In another embodiment of the present disclosure the handle substrate and or the silicon carbide layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate are doped. When the handle substrate and or the silicon carbide layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate are doped the dopant may be a p type or an n type dopant.

The buried insulating layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate may be an oxide nitride oxynitride or any multilayered combination thereof. In one embodiment the buried insulating layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate is an oxide such as for example silicon oxide aluminum oxide and silicon nitride. The buried insulating layer may be continuous or it may be discontinuous. When a discontinuous buried insulating layer is present the buried insulating layer exists as an isolated island that is surrounded by semiconductor material.

The thickness of the silicon carbide layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate is typically from 0.5 nm to 10 nm with a thickness from 1 nm to 5 nm being more typical. If the thickness of the silicon carbide layer exceeds the above mentioned ranges a thinning step such as for example oxidation followed by an oxide stripping planarization or etching can be used to reduce the thickness of the silicon carbide layer to a value within one of the ranges mentioned above.

The buried insulating layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate typically has a thickness from 1 nm to 200 nm with a thickness from 100 nm to 150 nm being more typical. In embodiments in which the handle substrate is an insulator such as AlO there is no need for insulating layer . In this case the substrate may comprise just the silicon carbide layer over the handle substrate . However in some cases layer is used even when the handle substrate is an insulator. For example when substrate is fabricated by bonding it is sometimes hard to bond silicon carbide directly to substrate and an intermediate insulating layer can be used as the glue between the silicon carbide and the handle substrate. The thickness of the handle substrate of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate is inconsequential to the present disclosure.

In one embodiment the silicon carbide on insulator substrate may be formed utilizing a process in which carbon ions are implanted into a SIMOX Separation by IMplanted OXygen wafer. In another embodiment of the present disclosure the silicon carbide on insulator substrate is formed by first providing a handle substrate . Next the buried insulating layer is formed on the handle substrate and thereafter the silicon carbide layer is formed on the buried insulating layer . To obtain a single crystal SiC layer formation of layers and can be done by epitaxy. In yet a further embodiment of the present disclosure the silicon carbide on insulator substrate is formed by layer transfer. When a layer transfer process is employed an optional thinning step may follow the bonding of a wafer including a handle substrate to a wafer including a silicon carbide substrate. The optional thinning step reduces the thickness of the silicon carbide substrate to a layer having a thickness that is more desirable and within the ranges provided above.

Reference is now made to which illustrate the basic processing steps of a layer transfer process that that can be used in one embodiment of the present disclosure in forming the silicon carbide on insulator substrate shown in . Referring first to there is illustrated an initial structure that can be used in forming the silicon carbide on insulator substrate shown in . The initial structure includes a silicon carbide substrate having a first insulating layer located on an upper surface thereof. The first insulating layer includes one of the insulating materials mentioned above for buried insulating layer . In one embodiment the first insulating layer can be formed by a thermal technique including oxidation and or nitridation. Alternatively the first insulating layer can be formed on an upper surface of the silicon carbide substrate by a deposition process including for chemical vapor deposition plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition atomic layer deposition and chemical solution deposition.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure of after forming a hydrogen implant region within the silicon carbide substrate . The hydrogen implant region is formed utilizing any conventional hydrogen ion implantation process. The hydrogen implant region includes a sufficient concentration of hydrogen ions that upon subjecting the same to a subsequent annealing blistering occurs within the implant region which removes a portion of the silicon carbide substrate from the structure.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure of after providing a handle substrate having a second insulating layer located on an upper surface thereof flipping the structure shown in and bonding the two wafers together by bringing the same in intimate contact with each other in the embodiment illustrated the first and second insulator layers are brought into intimate contact with each other. Bonding is typically initiated by van der Waals forces between the two flat surfaces and . Applying pressure on the two wafers can also be used to initiate bonding. Annealing is used to strengthen the bond between the two wafers. After annealing the bond between the two surfaces is a covalent bond. Typical annealing temperatures are from 300 C. to 1200 C. while the annealing duration is from 0.5 hours to 24 hours. As mentioned above annealing also leads to separation of a part of the silicon carbide substrate due to hydrogen blistering that occurs in the hydrogen implant region . The remaining silicon carbide which is not removed from the original silicon carbide substrate is then polished to obtain a silicon carbide layer whose surface has root mean square RMS roughness from 0.1 nm to 0.3 nm. The resultant structure after polishing is shown for example in . During bonding the first and second insulating layers can merge and form the buried insulating layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate .

Notwithstanding which process is employed in forming the silicon carbide on insulator substrate shown in a hard mask is formed on an upper surface of the silicon carbide layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate providing the structure such as shown for example in . The hard mask employed in the present disclosure includes an oxide nitride oxynitride or any multilayered combination thereof. In one embodiment the hard mask is a semiconductor oxide such as for example silicon oxide. In another embodiment the hard mask is a semiconductor nitride such as for example silicon nitride. In yet a further embodiment of the present disclosure the hard mask includes a multilayered stack of a semiconductor oxide and a semiconductor nitride i.e. a silicon oxide silicon nitride multilayered stack.

In one embodiment a thermal technique such as for example oxidation and or nitridation can be used in forming the hard mask on the upper surface of the silicon carbide layer . In another embodiment a deposition process such as for example chemical vapor deposition plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition atomic layer deposition and chemical solution deposition can be used in forming the hard mask .

The thickness of the hard mask may vary depending on the type of hard mask material employed and the technique used in forming the same. Typically the hard mask has a thickness from 5 nm to 50 nm with a thickness from 10 nm to 20 nm being more typical.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure shown in after forming a plurality of silicon carbide fins on the surface of the buried insulating layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate . As shown each silicon carbide fin includes a patterned hard mask thereon. The term fin is used throughout the present disclosure to denote a portion of either silicon carbide or silicon that was etched out of a silicon carbide layer or a silicon layer. The fin has a rectangular cross section with the fin height being defined by the thickness of silicon carbide layer and the fin width being defined by the width of the patterned hard mask .

It is noted that although the drawings and following description refer to a plurality of silicon carbide fins the present application also can be employed when a single silicon carbide fin is formed. It is also noted that in the top down views the silicon carbide fins are located beneath the patterned hard mask .

The plurality i.e. array of silicon carbide fins is located in at least one region of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate . Each silicon carbide fin has a bottom surface that is direct contact with an upper surface of the buried insulating layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate a top surface in direct contact with a bottom surface of the patterned hard mask and bare sidewalls. As is illustrated each silicon carbide fin has a first end portion E that is in contact with a first unpatterned portion of the silicon carbide layer and a second end portion E that is in contact with a second unpatterned portion of the silicon carbide layer . As also illustrated the plurality of silicon carbide fins are arranged parallel to each other and a uniform space is present between each neighboring silicon carbide fin . The array of silicon carbide fins can thus be considered as a ladder arrangement in which each silicon carbide fin represents a rung of the ladder.

The structure shown in can be formed by lithography and etching. Specifically the structure shown in can be formed by first applying a photoresist material not shown to the upper surface of the hard mask . The photoresist material which can be a positive tone material a negative tone material or a combination of both positive tone and negative tone materials can be formed utilizing any conventional deposition process including for example spin on coating. Following the application of the photoresist material the photoresist material is subjected to a desired pattern of radiation for example optical illumination through a mask or electron beam lithography and thereafter the resist material is developed utilizing any conventional resist developer.

With the patterned resist on the surface of the hard mask the unprotected portions of the hard mask and underlying portions of the silicon carbide layer not covered by the patterned resist are removed utilizing one or more etching processes. The one or more etching processes that can be used in removing the unprotected portions of the hard mask and underlying portions of the silicon carbide layer not covered by the patterned resist include dry etching wet etching or any combination thereof. When dry etching is employed one of reactive ion etching RIE ion beam etching and plasma etching can be used. When wet etching is employed a chemical etchant that is selective in remove unprotected portions of at least the hard mask can be used. In one embodiment of the present application RIE can be used to remove the unprotected portions of the hard mask and the underlying portions of the silicon carbide layer .

In some embodiments the patterned resist remains atop the structure during the entire patterning process. In other embodiments of the present disclosure the patterned resist is removed from the structure after the pattern has been transferred into the hard mask . Notwithstanding when the patterned resist is removed the patterned resist is removed utilizing a conventional resist removal processing such as ashing.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure of after forming graphene nanoribbons on the bare sidewalls of each of the silicon carbide fins . The term nanoribbon is used throughout the present application to denote a rectangular graphene sheet with one dimension being a few nanometers wide. It is noted that in the top down view the nanoribbons are located on the sidewalls of the fins and are thus not visible.

Although not illustrated in the drawings the present application includes an embodiment in which at least each patterned hard mask is removed from atop the silicon carbide fins prior to forming the graphene nanoribbons. When the patterned hard masks are removed a graphene nanoribbon can be formed on the bare sidewalls as well as the now bare upper surface of each silicon carbide fin. It is noted that in this case and for some applications one may want to choose the fin orientation such that the exposed SiC fin sidewalls and the exposed top surface have the same crystal orientation for example all having a 100 surface .

The term graphene as used throughout the present application denotes a one atom thick planar sheet of sp bonded carbon atoms that are densely packed in a honeycomb crystal lattice. The graphene employed as graphene nanoribbons has a two dimensional 2D hexagonal crystallographic bonding structure. The graphene that can be employed as graphene nanoribbon can be comprised of single layer graphene nominally 0.34 nm thick few layer graphene 2 10 graphene layers multi layer graphene 10 graphene layers a mixture of single layer few layer and multi layer graphene or any combination of graphene layers mixed with amorphous and or disordered carbon phases. The graphene employed as graphene nanoribbons can also include if desired substitutional interstitial and or intercalated dopant species as well.

Each graphene nanoribbon that is formed on the bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin can be formed by first cleaning the bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin by performing a first anneal in a dilute silane containing ambient. The first anneal that can be used to clean the bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin is typically performed at a temperature from 800 C. to 900 C. with a first anneal temperature from 810 C. to 825 C. being more typical.

As mentioned above the first anneal is performed in a dilute silane containing ambient. By silane containing ambient it is meant any atmosphere that includes at least one compound of hydrogen and silicon that has the general formula SiHwherein n is any integer particularly n is from 1 to 4. Examples of silanes that can be employed within the silane containing ambient include but are not limited to silane and disilane.

The silane containing ambient is typically diluted with an inert gas including for example at least one of He Ne Ar Kr and Xe. In one embodiment the content of silane within the dilute silane containing ambient is typically from 1 to 100 based on the total amount of the dilute silane containing ambient. In another embodiment the content of silane within the dilute silane containing ambient is typically from 15 to 25 based on the total amount of the dilute silane containing ambient.

After performing the first anneal a second anneal is performed that grows graphene nanoribbons on the bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin . For each silicon carbide fin two graphene nanoribbons are formed on opposing sidewall surfaces of the fin. Portions of each graphene nanoribbon will serve as the channel for the device. The second anneal is typically performed at a temperature from about 1200 C. up to but not exceeding the melting temperature of the handle wafer with a second anneal temperature from 1300 C. to 2000 C. being more typical. During the second anneal silicon is release from the bare sidewalls of the silicon carbide fins forming graphene nanoribbons thereon. The width of each graphene nanoribbon that is formed is defined by the height of each silicon carbide fin . Typically the width of each graphene nanoribbon is within a range from 0.5 nm to 10 nm.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure of after forming a gate structure including a gate dielectric not shown and a gate conductor on a portion of each silicon carbide fin which includes graphene nanoribbons on the sidewalls thereof. The gate dielectric which is not shown is located beneath the gate conductor and atop the buried insulating layer . Further the gate dielectric completely surrounds each silicon carbide fin that includes a graphene nanoribbon on its sidewalls.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the gate dielectric that can be used in this embodiment can include a metal oxide or a semiconductor oxide. Exemplary gate dielectrics that may be use include but are not limited to HfO ZrO LaO AlO TiO SrTiO LaAlO YO HfON ZrON LaON AlON TiON SrTiON LaAlON YON SiON SiN a silicate thereof and an alloy thereof. Multilayered stacks of these dielectric materials can also be employed as the gate dielectric layer. Each value of x is independently from 0.5 to 3 and each value of y is independently from 0 to 2.

The thickness of the gate dielectric that can be employed may vary depending on the technique used to form the same. Typically the gate dielectric that can be employed has a thickness from 1 nm to 20 nm with a thickness from 2 nm to 10 nm being more typical.

The gate dielectric can be formed by methods well known in the art. In one embodiment the gate dielectric can be formed by a deposition process such as for example chemical vapor deposition CVD plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD physical vapor deposition PVD molecular beam deposition MBD pulsed laser deposition PLD liquid source misted chemical deposition LSMCD and atomic layer deposition ALD . If the gate dielectric is a stack of several layers some of the layers can be deposited by chemical deposition or a spin on technique.

After forming the gate dielectric the gate conductor i.e. gate line can be formed. The gate conductor includes any conductive material including but not limited to polycrystalline silicon polycrystalline silicon germanium an elemental metal e.g. tungsten titanium tantalum aluminum nickel ruthenium palladium and platinum an alloy of at least two metals a metal nitride e.g. tungsten nitride aluminum nitride and titanium nitride a metal silicide e.g. tungsten silicide nickel silicide and titanium silicide and multilayered combinations thereof. In one embodiment the conductive material that can be employed as the gate conductor can be comprised of an nFET metal gate. In another embodiment the conductive material that can be employed as gate conductor can be comprised of a pFET metal gate. The nFET and pFET gate conductors are chosen based on the desired FET threshold voltage Vt . In a further embodiment the conductive material that can be employed as gate conductor can be comprised of polycrystalline silicon. The polysilicon conductive material can be used alone or in conjunction with another conductive material such as for example a metal conductive material and or a metal silicide material.

The conductive material that is employed as the gate conductor can be formed utilizing a conventional deposition process including for example chemical vapor deposition CVD plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD physical vapor deposition PVD sputtering atomic layer deposition ALD and other like deposition processes. When Si containing materials are used as the conductive material the Si containing materials can be doped within an appropriate impurity by utilizing either an in situ doping deposition process or by utilizing deposition followed by a step such as ion implantation or gas phase doping in which the appropriate impurity is introduced into the Si containing material. When a metal silicide is formed a conventional silicidation process is employed. The as deposited conductive material typically has a thickness from 1 nm to 100 nm with a thickness from 3 nm to 30 nm being even more typical. Following deposition of the conductive material the conductive material is patterned by lithography and etching into gate conductor i.e. gate line . During the patterning of the conductive material the gate dielectric may also be patterned as well.

Specifically illustrate a dual channel finFET that includes at least one silicon carbide fin located on a surface of a substrate i.e. the buried insulating layer of the initial silicon carbide on insulator substrate . The disclosed structure also includes a graphene nanoribbon located on each bare sidewall of the at least one silicon carbide fin . The disclosed structure further includes a gate structure oriented perpendicular to the at least one silicon carbide fin . The gate structure also overlaps a portion of each graphene nanoribbon and is located atop a portion of the at least one silicon carbide fin . In the disclosed structure the portion of the each graphene nanoribbon overlapped by the gate structure defines a channel region of the semiconductor structure.

The structure shown in also includes a source region A and a drain region B. The source region A is located at one portion of each graphene nanoribbon which is not overlapped by the gate structure while the drain region B is located at another portion of each graphene nanoribbon which is not overlapped by the gate structure . The source region A and drain region B are connected by the channel region.

In one embodiment the source region A and the drain region B can be formed by chemical doping n type or p type of portions of the graphene nanoribbon that are not overlapped by the gate structure . For example graphene can be doped to be p type by exposure to nitric acid. In another embodiment the source region A and the drain region B are composed of a metal carbide which is formed by first forming a metal layer such as Ti W Ni Ta Co or alloys thereof on a portion of each graphene nanoribbon in which the source drain regions A B are to be formed. The metal layer and the graphene nanoribbon are then reacted by annealing. For example to form tungsten carbide WC at a temperature of about 900 C. or greater is needed. Following the anneal any unreacted metal layer can be removed utilizing a selective etching process. Chemical vapor deposition with a metal precursor can also be applied to form carbides.

It should be noted that the type of graphene that can be formed on the sidewalls of the silicon carbide fins in the present disclosure is dependent on the surface orientation of the silicon carbide fin. This is shown in . Specifically is a drawing which shows some of the possible crystal planes of a silicon carbide on insulator substrate with a notch in the 101 direction. As shown in by choice of the wafer surface orientation and the layout of the fin with respect to the notch it is possible to obtain a fin with all surface being or a fin with sidewalls being 110 .

Referring now to there is illustrated another embodiment of the present disclosure in which graphene nanoribbons are formed on sidewalls of a silicon fin. Specifically provide a method of fabricating dual channel finFETs which can be optionally double gated.

Referring first to there is illustrated a silicon on insulator substrate that can be employed in this embodiment of the present disclosure. The silicon on insulator substrate includes from bottom to top a handle substrate a buried insulating layer and a silicon layer . It is observed that the silicon on insulator substrate shown in is similar to the silicon carbide on insulator substrate shown in except that a silicon layer is used in place of the silicon carbide layer . As such the materials and thicknesses for the handle substrate and the buried insulating layer used in this embodiment of the present disclosure are the same as those mentioned above for handle substrate and buried insulating layer of the silicon carbide on insulator substrate . It is also noted that the general description of doping crystal orientation and thickness given above for the silicon carbide layer are applicable here for the silicon layer .

Also the silicon on insulator SOI substrate can be made using one of the techniques mentioned above in forming the silicon carbide on insulator substrate with the except that silicon is used in place of silicon carbide. Furthermore the making of SOI wafers is a mature technology and SOI wafers are available commercially.

Referring now to there is depicted the silicon on insulator substrate of after forming a hard mask on an upper surface of the silicon layer . The hard mask that is employed in this embodiment of the present disclosure can include one of the hard mask materials mentioned above for hard mask . Also hard mask that employed in this embodiment of the present disclosure may be made using one of the techniques mentioned above for forming hard mask and the thickness of hard mask may fall within the range provided above for hard mask .

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure shown in after forming at least one silicon fin on an upper surface of the buried insulator layer . Although a single silicon fin is illustrated in a plurality of silicon fins can be formed on the surface of the buried insulating layer similar to the plurality of silicon carbide fins formed in the previous embodiment of the present disclosure. As is shown each silicon fin includes a patterned hard mask located on an upper surface of the silicon fin . Also each silicon fin has bare sidewalls.

The silicon fin can be formed by lithography and etching. Specifically the structure shown in can be formed by first applying a photoresist material not shown to the upper surface of hard mask . The photoresist material which can be a positive tone material a negative tone material or a combination of both positive tone and negative tone materials can be formed utilizing any conventional deposition including for example spin on coating. Following the application of the photoresist material the photoresist material is subjected to a desired pattern of radiation and thereafter the resist material is developed utilizing any conventional resist developer. With the patterned resist on the surface of the hard mask the unprotected portions of the hard mask and the underlying portions of the silicon layer are then removed utilizing one or more etching process. The one or more etching processes can include dry etching wet etching or any combination thereof. When dry etching is employed one of reactive ion etching ion beam etching and plasma etching can be used. When wet etching is employed a chemical etchant that is selective in remove unprotected portions of at least the hard mask can be used. In one embodiment RIE can be used to remove the unprotected portions of the hard mask and the underlying portions of the silicon layer .

In some embodiments the patterned resist remains atop the structure during the entire patterning process. In other embodiments of the present disclosure the patterned resist is removed from the structure after the pattern has been transferred into the hard mask . Notwithstanding when the patterned resist is removed the patterned resist is removed utilizing a conventional resist removal processing such as ashing.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure shown in after forming silicon carbide fins on the bare sidewalls of each silicon fin . Although not shown the patterned mask can be removed from atop each silicon fin prior to forming the silicon carbide fin. In such an instant a silicon carbide fin can be formed atop the silicon fin .

The silicon fin and hard mask may be removed selectively with respect to the silicon carbide fins . The removal of the silicon fin produces a structure which is similar to the structure shown in where the SiC fins are formed by patterning a SiC on insulator layer. There are some differences between the two structures The first difference is that the number of SiC fins is double that of since each silicon fin yields two SiC fins . The second difference is that the SiC fins do not have a hardmask cap. One advantage of the method for producing the SiC fins is that the fin thickness is defined by epitaxy as will be explained below. Epitaxy typically allows more uniform control overt the fin thickness than achieved with lithography and patterning of a SiC layer. The rest of the steps discussed in reference to can be applied to the structure to complete the device fabrication. The remaining of the discussion related to will be with respect to the embodiment where the silicon fin and hard mask are kept although they are eventually removed to form a double gate structure .

The silicon carbide fins that are formed on the bare sidewalls of each silicon fin can be formed utilizing a selective epitaxial growth process. Since a selective epitaxial growth process is employed the silicon carbide fins have the same crystal orientation as that of the sidewall of the silicon fin from which they are grown. The selective epitaxial growth process is typically performed at a temperature from 1200 C. to 1400 C. with a growth temperature from 1325 C. to 1375 C. being more typical. In one embodiment the selective epitaxial growth process used in forming the silicon carbide fins on the sidewalls of the silicon fin includes at least one precursor that includes both silicon and carbon. In another embodiment the selective epitaxial growth process used in forming the silicon carbide fins on the sidewalls of the silicon fin includes a first precursor that includes silicon and a second precursor that includes carbon. In any of the aforementioned embodiments the precursor s can be used alone or admixed with an inert gas.

The silicon carbide fins that are formed on the bare sidewalls of the silicon fin have a thickness extending laterally outward from the sidewall of the silicon fin from 1 nm to 10 nm with a thickness from 1 nm to 5 nm being more typical. The height of the silicon carbide fins is dependent on the height of the silicon fin that was previously formed.

Reference is now made to which illustrates the structure of after forming a layer of graphene on bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin . The layer of graphene can be referred to herein as graphene nanoribbon .

The graphene nanoribbons of this embodiment of the present disclosure are formed utilizing the same technique that was employed in forming the graphene nanoribbons in the previous embodiment of the present disclosure. That is the graphene nanoribbons of this embodiment of the present application can be formed on the bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin by first cleaning the bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin by performing a first anneal in a dilute silane containing ambient. The first anneal temperature and silane containing ambient used in forming graphene nanoribbons can be used here for forming graphene nanoribbons .

After performing the first anneal a second anneal is performed that grows graphene nanoribbons on the bare sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin . The second anneal temperature is within the range mentioned above for forming graphene nanoribbons but is kept lower than 1414 C. which is the melting temperature for silicon. During the second anneal silicon is release from the bare sidewalls of the silicon carbide fins forming graphene nanoribbons thereon. Each graphene nanoribbon that is formed has a thickness extending laterally outward from the surface of silicon carbide fin from one monolayer to six monolayers with one or two monolayers being more typical. The height of each graphene nanoribbon is determined by the height of both the silicon carbide fins .

Referring to there are illustrated the structure shown in after forming a first gate structure including a first gate dielectric and a first gate conductor thereon. The first gate dielectric and the first conductor shown in include materials and thicknesses mentioned above for forming the gate dielectric and the gate conductor in the previous embodiment mentioned above. Also the first gate dielectric and the first gate conductor shown in are formed utilizing one of the processes mentioned above in forming the gate dielectric and the gate conductor in the previous embodiment of the present disclosure.

The structure illustrated in includes at least one silicon fin located on a surface of a substrate i.e. the buried insulating layer of the initial silicon on insulator substrate . The disclosed structure also includes a silicon carbide fin located on each bare sidewall of the at least one silicon fin and a graphene nanoribbon located on a sidewall of each silicon carbide fin . The disclosed structure further includes a gate structure oriented perpendicular to each silicon carbide fin and the at least one silicon fin . The gate structure also overlaps a portion of each graphene nanoribbon and is located atop a portion of each of the silicon carbide fins and the at least one silicon fin . The portion of the each graphene nanoribbon overlapped by the gate structure defines a channel region of the semiconductor structure.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure shown in after forming a planarizing dielectric layer and planarizing the structure stopping on an upper surface of the patterned hard mask . The planarizing dielectric layer employed in this embodiment of the present disclosure may include a photoresist material SiO a doped silicate glass a silsesquioxane a C doped oxide i.e. organosilicates that include atoms of Si C O and H SiCOH or porous pSiCOH SiN SiC H SiCN H thermosetting polyarylene ethers or multilayers thereof. The term polyarylene is used in this application to denote aryl moieties or inertly substituted aryl moieties which are linked together by bonds fused rings or inert linking groups such as for example oxygen sulfur sulfone sulfoxide carbonyl and the like.

The planarizing dielectric layer can be formed utilizing any conventional deposition process including for example spin on coating chemical vapor deposition chemical enhanced vapor deposition and chemical solution deposition. The thickness of the planarizing dielectric layer that is formed prior to planarization varies so long as the upper surface of gate structure that is located above the patterned hard mask is covered with the planarizing dielectric material .

After forming the planarizing dielectric layer the planarizing dielectric layer is planarized stopping atop an upper surface of the patterned hard mask . The planarizing step used in forming the structure shown in can include chemical mechanical planarization and or grinding. The planarization process provides a structure such as shown in in which the upper surfaces of the planarizing dielectric layer the first gate conductor the hard mask and the first gate dielectric are each coplanar with each other.

Referring now to there is shown the structure of after selectively removing the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin from the structure and formation of a second gate conductor the second gate conductor represents a second gate line of the structure in at least the area previously occupied by the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin .

The patterned hard mask and the silicon fin can be removed utilizing one or more selective etching processes. That is the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin can be selectively removed utilizing a single etching step or multiple etching steps can be used to selectively remove first the patterned hard mask and then the silicon fin . In one embodiment of the present disclosure a wet etch can be used to selectively remove the patterned hard mask from the structure stopping atop the silicon fin and thereafter RIE can be used to selectively remove the silicon fin from the structure. More specifically an HBr based chemistry can be used to etch the silicon fin selectively with respect to the planarizing dielectric material and the first gate dielectric .

After selectively removing the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin from the structure the second gate conductor is formed in at least the area previously occupied by the patterned mask and the silicon fin the second gate conductor can also extend onto an upper surface of the first gate conductor and an upper surface of the planarizing dielectric layer .

The second gate conductor may comprise the same or different conductive material as the first gate conductor . Also the gate conductor can be formed utilizing one of the deposition processes mentioned above for the first gate conductor and after deposition the deposited conductive material can be patterned by lithography and etching forming the second gate conductor such as shown in . The structure shown in is a double gate FET with graphene channels.

Reference is now made to which represents another possible structure that can be formed utilizing the basic processing steps of this embodiment. Specifically the structure shown in is first formed and then the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin are selectively removed from the structure utilizing one or more etching process as described above in regard to the structure shown in . After selectively removing the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin from the structure a second gate structure including a second gate dielectric and second gate conductor is formed in at least the area previously occupied by the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin a portion of second gate conductor can extend onto an upper surface of the planarizing dielectric layer and an upper surface of first gate conductor . The second gate dielectric abuts sidewalls of each silicon carbide fin and sidewalls of the first gate dielectric . Also in this structure a lower portion of the second gate conductor abuts an upper surface of the buried insulating layer .

The second gate dielectric can include one of the dielectric materials mentioned above for the first gate dielectric . In one embodiment the second gate dielectric is a different gate dielectric material than the first gate dielectric . In yet another embodiment the second gate dielectric and the first gate dielectric are composed of the same dielectric material. The second gate dielectric can be formed utilizing one of the process mentioned above that is used in forming the first gate dielectric .

The second gate conductor can include one of the conductive materials mentioned above for the first gate conductor . In one embodiment the second gate conductor is a different conductive material than the first gate conductor . In yet another embodiment the second gate conductor and the first gate conductor are composed of the same conductive material. The second gate conductor can be formed utilizing the process mentioned above for forming the first gate conductor .

Reference is now made to which represent other possible structures that can be formed utilizing the basic processing steps of this embodiment. The structures shown in are double gate FETs with graphene channels. In the embodiment depicted in the first and second gate conductors are electrically connected. In the embodiment depicted in the first and second gate conductors are not electrically connected. Both structure A and B can be formed by first providing the structure shown in . Next the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin are selectively removed from the structure utilizing one or more etching processes as described above in regard to the structure shown in .

After selectively removing the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin from the structure the silicon carbide fins are selective removed from the structure utilizing an isotropic etching process such as for example hot phosphoric HPOat 180 C or plasma etch with SF.

After selectively removing the silicon carbide fins from the structure a second gate structure including a second gate dielectric and a second gate conductor is formed in at least the area previously occupied by the silicon carbide fins the patterned hard mask and the silicon fin . In one embodiment and as shown in a portion of second gate conductor can extend onto an upper surface of the planarizing dielectric layer and an upper surface of first gate conductor . In the embodiment shown in the two gates are electrically connected. In another embodiment and as shown in the second gate conductor does not extend onto the upper surface of at least the first gate conductor . In the embodiment shown in the two gates are electrically separated. In either structure the second gate dielectric abuts sidewalls of the graphene nanoribbons and sidewalls of the first gate dielectric . Also in these structures the second gate dielectric lies beneath the second gate conductor . As such a lower portion of the second gate conductor is separated from buried insulating layer by a portion of the second gate dielectric .

The second gate dielectric can include one of the dielectric materials mentioned above for the first gate dielectric . In one embodiment the second gate dielectric is a different gate dielectric material than the first gate dielectric . In yet another embodiment the second gate dielectric and the first gate dielectric are composed of the same dielectric material. The second gate dielectric can be formed utilizing one of the process mentioned above that is used in forming the first gate dielectric .

The second gate conductor can include one of the conductive materials mentioned above for the first gate conductor . In one embodiment the second gate conductor is a different conductive material than the first gate conductor . In yet another embodiment the second gate conductor and the first gate conductor are composed of the same conductive material. The second gate conductor can be formed utilizing the process mentioned above for forming the first gate conductor .

The structures shown in include at least one pair of spaced apart graphene nanoribbons located on a surface of a substrate i.e. the buried insulating layer of the original silicon on insulator substrate. This structure also includes a first gate structure located on one sidewall of each spaced apart graphene nanoribbon wherein the sidewalls of each graphene nanoribbon containing the first gate structure are not facing each other. The structure further includes a planarizing dielectric material located adjacent the first gate structure and at least a gate conductor of a second gate structure located between the at least one pair of spaced apart graphene nanoribbons. In some embodiments an upper portion of the second gate conductor of the second gate structure can contact an upper surface of the first gate structure while in others the second gate conductor does not contact an upper surface of the first structure .

Referring now to there is illustrated another embodiment of the present disclosure in which carbon nanotubes are formed from silicon carbide nanowires. Specifically this embodiment of the present disclosures provides a method of forming a gate all round carbon nanotube FET.

This embodiment begins by first providing the silicon carbide on insulator substrate shown in . Next a plurality of suspended silicon carbide nanowires is formed in at least one region of the structure providing a structure such as shown for example in . Although a plurality of suspended silicon carbide nanowires oriented in a ladder type array arrangement is described and illustrated the present application also contemplates an embodiment when a single suspended carbon nanowire is formed.

The suspended silicon carbide nanowires are formed by lithography etching and recessing portions of the buried insulating layer from beneath each silicon carbide nanowire that is formed. Each suspended silicon carbide nanowire has upper lower and sidewalls surfaces that are bare. As is illustrated the plurality of suspended silicon carbide nanowire have a first end portion E that is in contact with a first unpatterned portion of the silicon carbide layer and a second end portion E that is in contact with a second unpatterned portion of the silicon carbide layer . As also illustrated the plurality of suspended silicon carbide nanowires are arranged parallel to each other and a uniform space is present between each neighboring silicon carbide nanowire .

As mentioned above the structure shown in can be formed by lithography and etching a plurality of unsuspended silicon carbide nanowires and thereafter removing portions of the buried insulating layer from beneath each unsuspended nanowire. Specifically the structure shown in is formed by first applying a photoresist material not shown to the upper surface of silicon carbide layer . The photoresist material which can be a positive tone material a negative tone material or a combination of both positive tone and negative tone materials can be formed utilizing any conventional deposition including for example spin on coating. Following the application of the photoresist material the photoresist material is subjected to a desired pattern of radiation and thereafter the resist material is developed utilizing any conventional resist developer. With the patterned resist on the surface of the silicon carbide layer the unprotected portions of silicon carbide layer are then removed utilizing an etching process. The etching process can include dry etching or wet etching. When dry etching is employed one of reactive ion etching ion beam etching and plasma etching can be used. When wet etching is employed a chemical etchant that is selective in remove unprotected portions of the silicon carbide layer can be used. In one embodiment SFbased chemistry can be used to etch unprotected portions of the silicon carbide layer not covered with the patterned resist. After patterning the silicon carbide layer the patterned resist is removed utilizing a conventional resist removal processing such as ashing.

After forming the array of unsuspended silicon carbide nanowires the buried insulating layer beneath each carbon nanowire is removed utilizing an isotropic etching process such as for example a wet etch. More specifically if the buried insulating layer is SiO then diluted HF DHF can be used to selectively undercut and suspend the nanowires.

Each suspended silicon carbide nanowire that is formed has a length from 5 nm to 200 nm with a length from 20 nm to 100 nm being more typical. The height of each suspended silicon carbide nanowire is depended on the thickness of the original silicon carbide layer . The term nanowire as used throughout this application denotes a rectangular bar with a width and height dimensions that are several times smaller than the length dimension. Since the wire dimensions are typically in the nanometer scale it is referred to as a nanowire.

Referring now to there is shown the structure of after forming a graphene coating on all exposed surfaces of the plurality of suspended silicon carbide nanowires the nanowires coated with graphene may be referred to herein as carbon nanotubes . It is also observed that a graphene coating forms on the upper surface of the silicon carbide layer which was previously not patterned into suspended silicon carbide nanowires . The areas including the silicon carbide layer that is coated with graphene coating can be processed into the source and drain regions of the structure. The area in which the source and drain regions are subsequently formed are labeled as element in the subsequent drawings.

The graphene coating is formed utilizing the same technique mentioned above for forming graphene nanoribbon . That is the exposed silicon carbide nanowire surfaces are first cleaned by annealing in a dilute silane ambient. After cleaning the exposed surfaces of the silicon carbide nanowires a second anneal is used to form a graphene coating on all exposed silicon carbide surfaces.

Referring now to there is illustrated the structure shown in after forming a gate structure including a gate dielectric not shown and a gate conductor over a portion of each carbon nanotube . The gate dielectric employed in this embodiment can include one of the gate dielectric materials mentioned above in the regard to . Also gate conductor can include one of the conductive material mentioned above for gate conductor . The gate dielectric and the gate conductor of this embodiment can be formed utilizing one of the processes mentioned above for forming the gate dielectric and gate conductor in . The gate dielectric and the gate conductor are surrounding the suspended carbon nanotube and form a gate all around structure.

The structure shown in include at least one suspended carbon nanotube located atop a surface of a substrate i.e. the buried insulator layer of the initial silicon carbide on insulator substrate . The structure further includes a gate structure oriented perpendicular to the at least one suspended carbon nanotube . The gate structure also surrounds a portion of the at least one suspended carbon nanotube and portions of the at least one carbon nanotube surrounded by the gate structure define a channel region of the semiconductor structure.

Source and drain regions can be formed in the graphene regions over the non patterned portions of the silicon carbide layer and the portion of the carbon nanotube that extends outside the gate region. The carbon nanotube outside the gate region and the graphene over the unpatterned SiC can be doped by chemical doping and can be reacted to form a metal carbide such as WC.

While the present disclosure has been particularly shown and described with respect to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in forms and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the present disclosure not be limited to the exact forms and details described and illustrated but fall within the scope of the appended claims.

