---

title: System and method for automatic data security, back-up and control for mobile devices
abstract: Systems and methods for providing security, monitoring, and control of mobile communications device activity including at least one mobile communication device with software operable thereon for receiving rules provided by an authorized user of the device(s) and in accordance with those rules administering actions to provide for controlling, monitoring, and security data stored or generated on the device(s), including logging data and activities related to the mobile communications device, blocking and filtering calls, messages, websites, emails, and combinations thereof, via wireless communication with a remote server computer having a corresponding software module operable thereon for managing and implementing the rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450918&OS=09450918&RS=09450918
owner: 
number: 09450918
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150831
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 322 997 filed Jul. 3 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 287 523 filed Nov. 2 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 287 868 filed on Oct. 14 2008 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to data security back up logging monitoring and control for mobile communication devices. Further the present invention relates to mobile communication devices and remote access and automatic control for data security back up and logging based on rules defined for a device or user of the device by an authorized user and the systems and methods relating thereto.

Generally it is known in the relevant art to provide systems and methods for communication record logging mobile web log related to device activity and data back up. Also generally it is known in the relevant art to provide for security related to mobile devices including portable computers and mobile communication devices and personal digital assistant PDA devices. By way of example the following U.S. Patents and Publications are provided 

U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 003 for Method and apparatus for automatically updating a mobile web log blog to reflect mobile terminal activity filed Oct. 6 2003 by Lehikoinen et al. describes a mobile terminal including a memory storing application software and data that is descriptive of the use of the mobile terminal a display and controller that is responsive to the application software and to at least a sub set of the stored data for visualizing on the display in graphical form the use of the mobile station over time.

U.S. Publication 2007 0111704 for System and method for communication record logging filed Oct. 16 2006 by Linkert et al. discloses a method for maintaining a log of communications initiated or received at a portable electronic device including short message service SMS messages personal identification number PIN messages and cellular telephone calls wherein the method includes receiving a data record from each of the communications extracting information from the data record and storing information in a log file.

U.S. Publication 2007 0281664 for Portable wireless terminal and its security system filed May 16 2007 by Kaneko et al. teaches a portable wireless terminal like a cellular phone and its security system for preventing by remote control improper use of the portable wireless terminal by a third party when it is lost or stolen including data back up to a remote center by remote control from the center via a wireless network and including encryption public private key and data fragmentation.

U.S. Publication 2007 0299631 for Logging user actions within activity context filed Jun. 27 2006 by Macbeth et al. includes maintaining a log of user keystrokes files accessed files opened files created websites visited communication events for example phone calls instant messaging communications etc.

U.S. Publication 2008 0233919 for System and method for limiting mobile device functionality filed Feb. 9 2005 by Kenney discloses mechanisms for selectively disabling mobile device functionality to prevent unauthorized access to personal data stored on the mobile device like bank account numbers social security numbers and credit card numbers. Thus there remains a need for systems and methods that provide for automatically controlling data security back up logging access and for providing remote access to the data back up and mobile communication device operation based upon user defined rules for such automation rather than merely providing security for the incidence of lost or stolen mobile communication devices.

A first aspect of the present invention includes methods for automatically providing control and security for mobile communication devices and data created received and or stored thereon including steps of logging data and activities related to the mobile communications device blocking and filtering calls voicemail SMS messages MMS messages photos videos Instant Messages websites emails applications social media geographic location and combinations thereof via wireless communication with a remote server computer having a corresponding software module operable thereon for managing and implementing rules that are initially selected or generated by authorized user s of the device s . Different levels of access and rules authority are preferably provided for different users such as a first user being a system administrator or parent having one level and a device user or child having a second lower grade level that is subjected to limitations based on the first user all for the same device.

A second aspect of the present invention is to provide a system having at least one mobile communication device with software operable thereon for receiving rules provided by an authorized user of the device s and in accordance with those rules administering actions to provide for controlling and securing data stored received or generated on the device s including logging data and activities related to the mobile communications device blocking and filtering calls voicemail SMS messages MMS messages photos videos Instant Messages websites emails geographic location applications social media applications such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like and combinations thereof via wireless communication with a remote server computer having a corresponding software module operable thereon for managing and implementing the rules. The remote server computer will have a web based software module that will be used to access the logs records for device activities including applications and enable disable device locking options.

None of the prior art references provide for authorized user based rules selection modification and remote management and implementation for mobile communications devices to include rules governing all aspects of data security and device security such as data back up device operation and access to predetermined numbers contacts and or websites or addresses device receipt of calls messages SMS messages MMS messages photos Instant Messages social media applications such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like and websites from predetermined or all numbers contacts and or websites or addresses for predetermined duration or dates times in addition to device locking and application control and management.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art after a reading of the following description of the preferred embodiment when considered with the drawings as they support the claimed invention.

Referring now to the drawings in general the illustrations are for the purpose of describing a preferred embodiment of the invention and are not intended to limit the invention thereto.

The present invention provides for a system having at least one mobile communication device with software operable thereon for receiving rules provided by an authorized user of the device s and in accordance with those rules administering actions to provide for controlling and security data stored received or generated on the device s including logging data and activities related to the mobile communications device blocking and filtering calls voicemail messages SMS messages MMS messages photos videos Instant Messages applications social media applications such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like websites emails and combinations thereof via wireless communication with a remote server computer having a corresponding software module operable thereon for managing and implementing the rules. Accordingly illustrates a schematic diagram illustrating one embodiment of the system according to the present invention including a remote server computer RSC wireless network communication signals an interface protocol to connect mobile device to RSC such as REST based web service and at least one mobile device in communication with the RSC data stored in memory on the device s and having back up and user specific configuration data stored in memory at the RSC. One of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate that other computer components including processors input output devices and displays with graphical user interface operability are included in the system for providing user inputs and for reviewing status indication of the rules and status of implementation on device s via remote access or direct access to the server through a network via the target device or other non target devices not governed by the rules.

Additionally the present invention provides methods for providing automatic control and security for mobile communication devices and data created received and or stored thereon based upon rules selected by an authorized user of the device including steps of providing software operable on the device for logging data and activities related to the mobile communications device blocking and filtering communication including data and voice conversations in real time and voicemail left on the carrier network calls messages SMS messages MMS messages photos videos Instant Messages social media applications such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like websites emails and combinations thereof via wireless communication with a remote server computer and system as set forth hereinabove. shows a flow diagram illustrating steps involved with methods of the present invention providing the software program module operable on the mobile communication device and steps associated with associating an authorized user s with the device as set forth hereinbelow the software program module operating with the following steps being activated upon installation or download and operating substantially continuously for polling and or communication with a remote server computer downloading rules from the server including initial rules and rules updates as available administering the rules for controlling the device operation uploading data to the server wherein the data includes activity log activity data duration frequency content etc. storing select data on the device storing select data only when the device is offline and combinations thereof. The present invention further provides for forwarding the data in a customizable format making it readable and searchable to a third party vendor or to a customer s server on premises. Thus the device software and the RSC provides for all SMS messages Instant Messages chat MMS messages photo applications geographic locations social media applications such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like voice conversations and voicemail to be captured logged archived and made searchable by the customer via the graphical user interface or sent to a third party provider or to customers premise.

Preferably the steps include an authorized user associated with at least one mobile communication device or an administrator establishing rules governing the operation of the functions of the system for providing data and device security and remote access to same by the authorized user. The rules may be selected from predetermined options or generated uniquely by the user and input to the system by the authorized user following an authentication and or authorization step. The device operable software functions to provide the steps according to those rules including but not limited to logging and storing data input and or generated on the mobile communication device blocking and or filtering phone calls messages and or websites archiving data and tagging it for retrieval and optional searchability auditing and reporting and locking the device from predetermined selected or all activity for a duration or programmed date s and corresponding time s .

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the rules for all functionality of the software and corresponding device security and data security and all associated activities are defined by the authorized user s of the device or the device owner or administrator. In the case of corporate or business mobile communications the device authorized user may have a first predetermined level of rules options for selection and implementation and a system administrator or supervisor may have a second predetermined level of rules options that provide for overriding and or limiting selections of the actual device user. Similarly in the case of minor children a child device authorized user may have a first predetermined level of rules options and the parent s may have a second predetermined level of rules options that provide for administrative authorization and access to the data back up as well as blocking and filtering and device locking functions. For example the second predetermined level of rules may include remote wipe erase of the device remote lock of the device clearing and resetting the password preventing certain applications from being installed and or deleted and locking use of camera and the like.

Other examples include the device software and RSC providing mobile applications to be installed uninstalled and managed remotely over the network directly to the mobile device. The system and device tracks and controls approved and unapproved applications being installed on the device and ensures users install approved applications. Also the system and device manage lock and permit users to access specific web based applications mobile applications and SaaS services and internet sites. The device software and RSC further provides for remote control of which devices are permitted or prohibited to connect to an internal network.

The device software and the RSC according to the present invention also provide for a push notification prompting the device to check in for tasks policies and queries.

A complete inventory management of the devices which have the device software installed and are connected to the RSC is provided for including user authentication certificate enrollment and device configuration.

In any case the rules can be selected generated and input to the system through a web based user interface accessible by any web enabled device including but not limited to the target mobile communication device s to which those rules would apply. Additionally rules may be updated modified reviewed and eliminated by authorized users through the same type of user interface via the web regardless of device access. As will be understood and appreciated user authentication and authorization may be provided in a number of ways including by way of example and not limitation a user identification userID and corresponding password passcode or personal identification number PIN . Additional authorized users can be added or removed through this system only if an authorized user accesses the system securely with the userID and corresponding passcode. Biometric authentication and other forms of user identification and authentication may be provided in substitute or supplement as appropriate. Preferably the rules are administered via software operable from the RSC side thereby providing a smaller software footprint operable on the device i.e. providing a client side application as a small utility installed or downloaded on the mobile communication device upon registration with the system in this manner the application can always be operable or on to manage implementation of the rules on the device s without interfering with regular operation or draining power or memory in a significant manner. The client side application is operable to poll the RSC on regular and predetermined intervals for checking for new rules data uploading logs from the device to the RSC and functioning to conform to any other rules associated directly with that device. A single authorized user can add multiple devices in the system and thus control more than one device from within the same interface. This way in corporate environments a single administrator can control all devices of the organization and similarly the parents can control devices for all children. Unlike prior art logging functions for remote communication devices the present invention logging extends beyond SMS messaging MMS messaging IM messaging social media applications such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like call activity logging i.e. identifying what calls and SMS messages originate on the device or that were received or calls missed to that device. The present invention provides for logging of SMS messages MMS messages and telephone calls and recordings left on the carrier network including inbound or outgoing and preferably includes additional data associated therewith the call timers name data from contacts and so on including rules implementation such as call time limitation to predetermined numbers or recipients. Also logging includes information relating to browsing history including website information and URL duration and frequency of website visit downloading history and other similar activities. Also text messaging email messaging MMS messaging photos videos and 3party application data and social media applications such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like are included in the logging functions of the present invention. Importantly with the automated rules implementation including back up of data and logging information the present invention provides for the elimination of stored data on the mobile communications device since the device can actively connect with the RSC for uploading data rather than storing data on the device directly. The data is stored on device on temporary basis if the wireless connection is not available and is uploaded to RSC when connection is restored. When uploading the system maintains a parity check for upload activity and unless the data is uploaded successfully the transactions are not considered as complete. Rules governing data retained on the device in the case of limited wireless connectivity but need for access to certain predetermined information are preferably provided.

Additionally the RSC controls device security by providing for blocking and filtering of calls SMS messages MMS messages Instant Messages Social Media messages 3party applications banking transactions and URLs based upon the rules. Either predetermined or all numbers or initiators can be blocked from sending communication data messages or calls to the device s . Also keywords key phrases and number sequences can be used as the basis for blocking and or filtering as well. Selective or all URL blocking or filtering of websites based upon URL owner content etc. is also provided based upon the rules.

In preferred embodiments the RSC and software associated with the server side module of the present invention provide for scalability without limitation to number of devices and geographic locations networks etc. Initial embodiments provide for device software supporting Windows Mobile Google Android Symbian RIM Blackberry and Apple iOS devices that are commercially available globally however platforms devices and operating systems of mobile communications devices can be addressed through software modifications for compatibility and improvements as well as new devices. The RSC software is designed in consideration to add more platforms and no changes are required on server side software when adding new mobile platforms.

The present invention also further provides for mobile communication device having automated security and control of device functionality including a mobile device with a software program module operable thereon wherein the module administers rules that govern device functionality including filtering and blocking communication to and or from the device logging device activity storing data associated with device activity including activity frequency duration and content and combinations thereof as well as other functionality set forth hereinabove relating to those aspects of the system applicable at the device level.

Additionally the system can filter and block such information as passwords or identification numbers such as social security numbers from leaving the device and alert the administrator to these. The system may also similarly filter block and alert for PING probes. A policy of flagging words phrases or number sequences can be used to enhance the security of the device.

Certain modifications and improvements will occur to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the foregoing description. By way of example the blocking and filtering steps may extend beyond phone calls SMS messages IM messages MMS messages Social Media messages emails and websites to further include blocks and filtering of advertising location information transactions including commercial transactions money transactions and solicitations of any form to the mobile communication device based upon the rules selected and or predetermined by the authorized user of the device. Similar options for backup and restore of contacts calendar and other vital data are also available. The above mentioned examples are provided to serve the purpose of clarifying the aspects of the invention and it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that they do not serve to limit the scope of the invention. All modifications and improvements have been deleted herein for the sake of conciseness and readability but are properly within the scope of the present invention.

