---

title: Detection of scrambling code confusion
abstract: Detection of a confusion caused by scrambling code reuse is provided herein. Timing measurements, as observed by a mobile device, and an identification of primary scrambling codes associated with the timing measurements are captured. The timing measurements are identified by the primary scrambling codes for the particular radio measured. The mobile device also reports its location information. Radios for which timing measurements have been received are paired. Based on the paired radios and a history of observed time difference reference values for radio pairs, comparisons are made between paired radios having at least one common radio. Radios, exhibiting a set of values that is near an expected range, are removed from the analysis. Radios, exhibiting two sets of values that are distinct, are isolated in order to identify the radio that is causing the scrambling code confusion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473202&OS=09473202&RS=09473202
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09473202
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151029
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 627 031 filed on Feb. 20 2015 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 204 324 entitled DETECTION OF SCRAMBLING CODE CONFUSION which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 537 697 filed on Jun. 29 2012 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 995 986 entitled DETECTION OF SCRAMBLING CODE CONFUSION. The entireties of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to detection of scrambling code confusion in a wireless communications environment.

Wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world. On the user side dropped calls have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side instances of dropped calls can occur due to scrambling code confusion or scrambling code conflict which occurs when a mobile device encounters two sectors that utilize the same scrambling code and the network cannot identify on which sector the mobile device is reporting.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

It is noted that although various aspects and embodiments are discussed herein with respect to Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS the subject disclosure is not limited to a UMTS implementation. For example aspects or features of the disclosed embodiments can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. Such wireless communication technologies can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies.

The embodiments contained herein are not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this detailed description is to present some concepts related to some example non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

In an example embodiment an aspect relates to a system that can include at least one memory and at least one processor. The memory can store computer executable instructions and the at least one processor can be communicatively coupled to the at least one memory. The processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to at least construct a history of a plurality of observed time difference reference values for a plurality of radio pairs based on timing measurements and location information reported by a plurality of mobile devices. Based on a comparison of the plurality of observed time difference reference values for sets of the plurality of radio pairs that share a common radio the processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to identify a radio for the sets of the plurality of radio pairs as a cause of a scrambling code conflict resulting from a mobile device of the plurality of mobile devices detecting two radios having the same scrambling code.

Another example embodiment relates to a method that can include receiving by a system comprising a processor timing measurements and location information from a plurality of mobile devices. The timing measurements can comprise identification information associated with respective radios. The method can also include establishing by the system a set of reference values for radio pairs from the timing measurements and evaluating by the system a first subset of the set of reference values. The first subset of reference values comprise timing measurements for a first radio of the radio pairs. The method can also include determining by the system as a result of the evaluating that the first radio contributes to at least a set of the plurality of mobile device receiving communication from two radios that use a same scrambling code resulting in a scrambling code conflict.

A further example embodiment relates to a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include storing a plurality of observed time difference reference values for a plurality of radio pairs based on timing measurements and location information reported by a plurality of mobile devices. The operations can also include comparing the plurality of observed time difference reference values for sets of radio pairs of the plurality of radio pairs. The sets of radio pairs share a common radio. The operations further include identifying the common radio as a cause of scrambling code confusion resulting from two radios using a same scrambling code.

Referring initially to illustrated is an example non limiting wireless communications environment in which the disclosed aspects can be utilized according to an embodiment. A wireless communications environment can comprise any number of sectors e.g. sites cells and so forth . The illustrated wireless communications environment can include a first sector a second sector a third sector and a fourth sector although more or fewer than four sectors can be utilized in a wireless communications environment. Each sector has a respective geographic area or coverage area. For example first sector has a first coverage area second sector has a second coverage area third sector has a third coverage area and fourth sector has a fourth coverage area .

Also illustrated are two mobile devices labeled as a first mobile device and a second mobile device although more than two mobile devices can be operated within the wireless communications environment . As utilized herein a mobile device can include a UMTS based electronic device such as but not limited to a cell phone a PDA personal digital assistant a media player a digital camera a media recorder a laptop a personal computer a printer a scanner a tablet a GPS global positioning system module a gaming module and so forth. Further the device can also include UMTS based appliances that can be employed for example in a home office building retail store restaurant hotel factory warehouse and so on. As previously noted although the various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the aspects are not limited to an UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of simplicity.

Each sector can be assigned a different scrambling code which is a code utilized to distinguish each sector s transmissions from transmissions from other sectors. For example scrambling codes can differentiate WCDMA Wideband CDMA radios from one another as detected by mobile devices e.g. user equipment . Radio Access Network RAN planners have about 512 e.g. numbered 0 through 511 possible scrambling codes to assign to the radios e.g. sectors . Although each cell should be assigned a unique scrambling code since there are a finite number of scrambling codes and there can be thousands of cells some reuse of each scrambling code might be necessary in a wireless communications environment. To facilitate the scrambling code reuse the RAN planners consider the radios that are located in proximity to each other and attempt to distribute the scrambling codes so that two or more sectors having the same scrambling code are not able to be detected by a mobile device at the same time. If the mobile device could encounter and measure timing parameters of both the sectors e.g. a first sector and a second sector with the same scrambling code at the same time confusion can result because the mobile device might intend to communicate with a first sector but is in fact communicating with the second sector. Therefore the network cannot identify on which cell the mobile device is reporting. Another problem that can occur is interference among cells sharing the same scrambling code. Poor scrambling code reuse planning can also result in dropped calls.

It should be noted that although generally 512 scrambling codes are available e.g. numbered 0 to 511 some scrambling codes might be reserved and not available for assignment to cells. For example the available scrambling codes can be 0 through 503 510 and 511 where scrambling codes 504 through 509 can be reserved .

For example in dense urban settings user locations e.g. mobile device locations can vary by various geographic coordinates including latitude longitude and altitude e.g. three dimensions . In many cities e.g. Manhattan Los Angeles San Francisco Chicago and so forth numerous small footprint sites exist to cover smaller areas. Users through their respective mobile devices might be more prone to see many sites both near and far away due to tall buildings hilltops and so forth. With the higher penetration of sites in smaller geographic areas scrambling code reuse can become difficult resulting in a scrambling code conflict which can be hard to detect as problematic.

The various aspects disclosed herein can provide a direct means to determine when scrambling code conflict is occurring by using timing measurements to differentiate between two source sites. Timing measurements can be translated to distance with a greater degree of accuracy as compared to RSCP Received Signal Code Power . For example detection of conflicting mobile device to site distance can be an indication of scrambling code confusion.

As the first mobile device and the second mobile device are moved within the wireless communications environment and or are moved into or out of the coverage area s of the wireless communications environment the device might be able to measure timing for multiple sites. For example first sector and first mobile device are located at a high altitude e.g. at the top of large building and third sector is within sight of the first mobile device . However the distance between first sector and third sector is far enough that when scrambling code assignment with reuse was established both the first sector and third sector were assigned the same scrambling code since it was not foreseeable that a conflict would occur between these sites. However in use the mobile device is able to detect communications from both sectors which utilize the same scrambling code and confusion can occur because the device is not aware that it is in communication with two different sectors that use the same scrambling code. Such scrambling code conflicts and the resulting scrambling code confusion can cause numerous issues for the mobile device during operation. These issues can include dropped calls poor communication quality and failed handovers.

System can be implemented in a network e.g. base station access point sector NodeB site and so forth . As previously noted although the various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the disclosed aspects are not limited to an UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of simplicity while explaining the various aspects.

System can include at least one memory that can store computer executable components and computer executable instructions. System can also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications.

The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable components and instructions stored in the memory . It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from memory e.g. operatively connected to memory in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System can also include a generate component that can be configured to construct a history of observed time difference reference values for radio pairs based on reports transmitted by a multitude of mobile devices e.g. first mobile device second mobile device and so forth . For example each mobile device can measure multiple radios during defined events related to soft handover or at various other times. These measurements can be reported by the mobile device to the network e.g. to system . In an implementation the measurements can be reported by the mobile device in a Radio Resource Control RRC Measurement Report. In another implementation the measurements can be received as reference signal time difference RSTD measurements.

The measurements can comprise for each radio e.g. radio for each sector a primary scrambling code and a timing measurement Tm value. The primary scrambling code can be utilized to distinguish each sector s transmissions from transmissions from other sectors or cells . The Tm value is a timing measurement representing the difference between the SFN System Frame Number and the CFN Connection Frame Number as received at the mobile device for each radio. An observed time difference OTD calculation is a timing difference between radios where OTD Tm Tm where Tmj is a timing measurement of radio j and Tmi is a timing measurement of radio i as measured by the mobile device.

Another report conveyed by the mobile devices and received at the system can be a location report that identifies the geographic coordinates or location e.g. latitude longitude altitude of the mobile device at the time the report is generated by the mobile device. In an implementation the location report can be a RANAP Radio Access Network Application Protocol Location Report that can be conveyed to the network e.g. to a reception component when requested by an external service through the control plane or at a different time.

The one or more reports received from the mobile devices e.g. a mobile device can convey more than one report and or multiple mobile devices can transmit one or more reports can be retained in a database as illustrated or in another computer readable storage medium. It is noted that a database e.g. database can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile memory and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can operate as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data stores databases and so on of the various disclosed aspects is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In an aspect database is included as a component within the disclosed system s . However according to other aspects the database can be located remote from the system s but can be accessed by the system s such as over an air interface.

Also included in system is an analysis component that can be configured to compare the observed time difference reference values for sets of radio pairs that share a common radio. For example a first mobile device reports timing measurements for Sector A Sector B and Sector D and the following radio pairs are created where 1 represents the first mobile device AB AD BA BD DA DB. A second mobile device reports timing measurements for Sector B Sector C and Sector D and the following radio pairs are created where 2 represents the second mobile device BC BD CB CD DB and DC. Further a third mobile device reports timing measurements for Sector B Sector E and Sector F and the following radio pairs are created where 3 represented the third mobile device BE BF EB EF FB and FE. In this example radio pairs AB BA DB BC BD CB DB BE BF EB and FBshare a common radio e.g. Sector B . In an implementation the radio pairs and associated values can be retained in a database which can be database or a different database.

System can also include an assessment component that can be configured to identify at least one radio from the set of radio pairs where the at least one radio is a cause of a scrambling code conflict. The scrambling code conflict or confusion can result from a mobile device detecting two radios with a same scrambling code. According to an implementation through a process of elimination assessment component can remove from the evaluation radios that have been determined not to be the cause of scrambling code confusion. In an example assessment component can evaluate the pairings associated with the various sectors or radios and in each case e.g. for each pairing there might be a common link of scrambling code confusion however between other pairs there might not be scrambling code confusion.

In an implementation layer three messages can be collected by network IuB probes or by vendor provided tracing applications. The disclosed aspects can collect RANAP Location Reports and RRC Measurement Reports for all WCDMA devices active in the network. As RANAP Location reports are received RRC Measurement Reports for the same mobile device can be collected and analyzed. The RANAP Location Report can provide a fixed location for the mobile device which can be an AGPS Assisted Global Positioning System mobile device. The RANAP Location Reports can be matched with RRC Measurement Reports such as through interpolation or extrapolation. The result of the matching can be a temporary link between the RRC Measurement Report with the RANAP Location Report which can be linked with minimal if any error.

Further to this implementation from the RRC Measurement Report a list of observed timing difference values Ovalues can be constructed where Ois equal to the timing measurement of site j as measured by the mobile device minus the timing measurement of site i as measured by the mobile device TM TM

The Ocan be translated to an OR Reference value that removes the known propagation delay known from the actual mobile device location. Thus the reference value OR is equal to the observed time difference O minus the propagation delay DR . where DR represents the propagation delay difference for the known mobile device location and the known radio locations e.g. Site i and Site j . A history of OR values can be built for each Radio Pair ij. Detection of a scrambling code conflict issue occurs when two distinct cluster of samples within the buffer exist. The specific case can be reported to allow radio planners to rectify the conflict. In some implementations the detection of the scrambling code conflict can result in automated reassignment of scrambling codes.

An association component can be configured to identify pairs of radios from the radios identified in the set of timing measurements. For example pairs of radios can be identified based on timing measurements from each mobile device. Thus if a first mobile device reports timing measurements for three radios association component can identify pairs of radios from the three radios. Further if a second mobile device reports timing measurements for four radios association component can identify pairs of radios from the four radios. The identification of the radio pairs from the timing measurements reported by the first mobile device is independent of the creation of the radio pairs from the timing measurements reported by the second mobile device and subsequent mobile devices .

Also included in system is a computation component that can be configured to calculate an observed time difference value for each pair of radios. In an implementation the pair of radios comprises a first radio and a second radio. Further to this implementation computation component subtracts a first timing measurement of a first radio from a second timing measurement of a second radio as measured by the mobile device to calculate the observed time difference value. For example the first radio is Radio I and the second radio is Radio J. The observed time difference of these radios O is the timing measurement of Radio I subtracted from the timing measurement of Radio J O TM TM For example each Tm value when compared with all other radio Tm values yields an observed time difference OTD where OTD Tm Tm where j and i represent Radio j and Radio i respectively. The location report or current location provides a fixed reference location for each Tm value. In the case of a UMTS network which might not be GPS synchronized the fixed reference location can be established based on the location report when the location report is received at about the same time the Tm values are received. Once the fixed reference location is obtained the OTD measures can be recorded e.g. retained in database . Overtime as many measurements are obtained a single radio issue can be detected as compared with all other radios for which information has been received.

A reference value component can be configured to remove a propagation delay difference DR from the observed time difference value O to derive an observed time difference reference value OR OR O DR . In an example the propagation delay can be calculated for each pair of radios based in part on the location information reported by each mobile device.

Also included in system can be an update component that can be configured to populate a data store e.g. database or another database with the observed time difference reference value for each pair of radios. The database that comprises the observed time difference reference values can be saved as historical data and utilized for later detection of scrambling code conflicts according to the disclosed aspects.

Each mobile device included in the set of mobile devices can be identified based on its international mobile subscriber identity IMSI which is a unique identification associated with each mobile device. The IMSI can be a number having 15 digits or any other number of digits. The IMSI can be included in one or more reports transmitted by each mobile device.

Each mobile device can also report timing measurements values Tm values which are the timing measurements as measured by each mobile device. In an implementation the Tm values can be reported in an RRC measurement report or a different type or name of report. Each Tm value can be associated with a primary scrambling code PSC which differentiates radios e.g. WCDMA radios from one another as detected by the mobile device. The PSC can be transmitted in the RRC measurement report according to an implementation.

Each mobile device can also report its current location e.g. position information which can include various geographic coordinates including latitude longitude and or altitude. In an implementation the current location of the mobile device can be received in a RANAP location report or a different type or name of report.

As stated above the various information from each mobile device e.g. IMSI Tm PSC current location can be received by reception component . For example the reception component can receive the timing measurements in radio resource measurement reports transmitted by respective mobile devices. Further to this example the reception component can receive the location information in radio access network application protocol location reports transmitted by the respective mobile devices. In another example the reception component can be configured to receive the timing measurements as reference signal time difference values reported by respective mobile devices.

Further the various information can be retained in database . The various information and or reports can be retained in the database or other storage medium in any type of format e.g. table list and so forth that allows the information to be accessed as needed.

Also included in system can be an output component that can be configured to output a report that identifies at least one radio as the cause of the scrambling code conflict. In an example the report can be utilized by network planners to redistribute scrambling codes among the sites in order to mitigate scrambling code confusion.

For example output component can be configured to convey information to a network operator or another user and or entity e.g. the Internet another system a computer machinery and so forth hereinafter referred to as users and or entity depending on the context. At substantially the same time as the analysis is completed by system or sometime thereafter output component can convey the information to a user and or entity. In an implementation the analysis information can be transmitted in an exception report that includes the identified sector and or can include analysis and information related to the other sectors e.g. sector identification timing measurements reported by the mobile devices an identification of the type of each mobile device and so forth . Based on the analysis received from output component the scrambling code of the identified site can be changed to a different scrambling code or another action can be performed as deemed appropriate based on various considerations including standard operating procedures related to the network.

In a UMTS network for example grid frames can be of arbitrary size and or number. However for simplicity a bin grid frame size can be considered to be 100 meters by 100 meters for the purposes of discussion herein as this closely matches current UMTS chip size e.g. UMTS chip rate is 3.84 MBit sec therefore one chip is roughly 260.42 nsec and 78 meters . Additionally a bin grid can comprise other bin grids or portions thereof. Moreover bin grids may overlap wholly or partially and at any orientation. It is further noted that a bin grid can be physically two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D wherein a 2D grid can for example include x y coordinates e.g. latitude longitude and a 3D grid can add for example a z dimension e.g. height .

In another implementation evaluation component can be configured to determine a single radio is associated with two sets of observed time difference reference values. For example a first set can be in the range of 15000 to 15004 for example and a second set can be within the range of 26000 to 26004 for example. This indicates that the timing measurements are associated with two or more different grid bins. In the example there are two distinct sets of values that represent two different scrambling codes which indicates a potential for scrambling code confusion. Thus evaluation component can be configured to isolate at least one radio as a cause of scrambling code confusion.

In an implementation some networks can be self configuring networks wherein new base stations that are added to a network can be automatically configured and integrated into the network. The disclosed aspects can be utilized in the self configuration networks to enable dynamic identification and configuration of scrambling codes to mitigate scrambling code confusion. In another implementation some networks can be self organizing networks wherein scrambling codes can be dynamically established and or modified through use of the various aspects disclosed herein.

Also included in system can be an allocate component that can be configured to assign the different primary scrambling code to at least one radio to remove the detected scrambling code conflict. In an implementation the allocate component can assign or reconfigure scrambling codes to other sites. For example the distribution component in order to mitigate the scrambling code conflict detected by one or more mobile devices might determine that if one scrambling code is changed such change will cause a different scrambling code conflict. Therefore more than one scrambling code might need to be reassigned. Allocate component can be configured to automatically reassign or change the scrambling codes for various sites as determined by the distribution component or other system components.

In an implementation outlier component can review the timing measurements received from each device and can cause other system components to ignore faulty measurements. For example outlier component can utilize outlier detection which can include identifying timing measurements that are distinct from a set of other substantially the same timing measurements e.g. timing measurements from the same sector timing measurements at the same or similar location and so forth . If one or more distinct timing measurements are discovered outlier component can remove e.g. delete the distinct timing measurement from the database .

In another implementation outlier component can be configured to flag the one or more timing measurements wherein the flag instructs the other system components to ignore the flagged timing measurement. In some implementations outlier component can delete or flag all measurements and associated sector pairs from the mobile device that exhibits the potentially erroneous measurement reports.

Additionally or alternatively system can include an identifier component that can be configured to separate the reports based on mobile type. For example system can be utilized to distinguish between mobile types in order to determine whether the measurements indicate scrambling code confusion or instead whether the measurements indicate that a particular mobile type is reporting widely different measurements than those measurements being reported by other mobile types.

Information related to the type of mobile device that is reporting the various information e.g. timing measurements position information and so forth can be derived by identifier component based on the IMSI conveyed by the mobile device. For example identifier component can access a database or other storage media that cross references the IMSI to a mobile type. Identifier component can separate the various reported information by mobile type. Over time the reported information can be reviewed to determine whether a particular mobile type is providing incorrect measurements.

If it is determined that a particular mobile type is reporting incorrect information outlier component can remove the measurements and other reported information reported by mobile devices of the identified type. In another implementation outlier component can flag the information which can be ignored by other system components when attempting to detect the presence of a site that is contributing to scrambling code confusion.

Additionally or alternatively identifier component can be configured to ascertain the type of mobile device providing the reports e.g. timing information primary scrambling code and so forth . If the reports are received from a single mobile device type the reports might not be considered. However if the reports are received from two or more mobile devices of different types the reports might be deemed acceptable to be analyzed for the presence of confusion caused by two sites being detected that share a common scrambling code as discussed herein.

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that should be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be information stored in database and the classes can be categories or areas of interest e.g. timing measurements related to sector pairs .

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily noted the disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. through observing timing measurements and other received data receiving extrinsic information and so on . For example SVMs can be configured through a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria whether a pair of sites that utilize a same scrambling code has been detected whether a type of mobile device is providing incorrect information and so on. The criteria can include but is not limited to historical timing measurements mobile device type problems associated with soft handover within a wireless communications network location of the mobile device operating procedures associated with the network and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by a system comprising at least one processor.

At a listing of reference values for radio pairs is determined The listing of reference values can be construed from the timing measurements. For example the reference values can be created by matching a location of the mobile device e.g. from the received location information . Each timing measurement in the set of timing measurements can be associated with a radio identified by a primary scrambling code. The radio pairs can be created from the radios identified in the set of timing measurements. An observed time difference can be calculated for each pair of radios and a propagation delay can be removed from the observed time difference value to derive the reference value. In an implementation the reference value can be retained in a database with other reference values.

A first subset of the set of reference values are evaluated at . The first subset of the set of reference values can comprise a first radio. Based on the comparison at it is determined that the first radio contributes to at least a set of the plurality of mobile devices receiving communication from two radios that use a same scrambling code resulting in scrambling code confusion.

The reference values of the first set of radio pairs is compared against a first set of other radio pairs at . The first set of radio pairs and the first set of other radio pairs comprise a similar radio. At a determination is made that the first radio is a contributing factor in the radio scrambling code confusion.

In an implementation the determination at includes determining that the compared reference values form at least two sets of reference values at . Based on the two sets of reference values at the first radio is identified as a cause of the scrambling code conflict.

According to another implementation the determination at includes evaluating the reference values of a second set of the radio pairs against a second set of other radio pairs at . The second set of the radio pairs and the second set of other radio pairs each comprise a second radio. At the second radio is eliminated as the cause of the scrambling code confusion. For example the second radio might have a single set of reference values that are within a certain tolerance range.

A determination is made at that the first radio contributes to a scrambling code conflict. In an implementation method can include generating at a report that identifies the first radio as causing the scrambling code confusion. The report can be output at to another device which can be a device of a network planner. Upon receipt of the report the network planner can update the scrambling reuse plan in an attempt to mitigate scrambling code conflicts.

In another implementation at an alternative scrambling code can automatically be identified for the first radio. At the alternative scrambling code can be allocated to the first radio. For example the radio might be included in a self configuring network wherein when new base stations are added and or confusion is identified the network dynamically changes one or more parameters in order to configure the network for better performance.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to detect scrambling code conflicts is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while example wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM and so on. through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a PDA phone watch and so forth microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation the non transitory computer readable storage medium can store computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include storing a plurality of observed time difference reference values for a plurality of radio pairs based on timing measurements and location information reported by a plurality of mobile devices. The operations can also include comparing the plurality of observed time difference reference values for sets of radio pairs of the plurality of radio pairs. The sets of radio pairs share a common radio. The operations can also include identifying the common radio as a cause of scrambling code confusion resulting from two radios using a same scrambling code.

In an implementation the operations can also include associating a location of a mobile device of the plurality of mobile devices to a set of timing measurements reported by the mobile device. The set of timing measurements are associated with a group of radios identified by a set of primary scrambling codes. Further to this implementation the operations can include creating a first set of radio pairs from the group of radios associated with the set of timing measurements and determining a first set of observed time difference values for the first set of radio pairs. The operations can also include removing propagation delays from the first set of observed time difference values to determine a first set of observed time difference reference values and populating a data store with the first set of observed time difference reference values for the first set of radio pairs.

According to another implementation a pair of radios comprises a first radio and a second radio and wherein the operations further comprise subtracting a first timing measurement of the first radio from a second timing measurement of the second radio to calculate the observed time difference value between the first radio and the second radio. In a further implementation the operations can include establishing a different primary scrambling code for the common radio and assigning the different primary scrambling code to the common radio to mitigate the scrambling code confusion.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. through access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

