---

title: Method and apparatus for verifying the authenticity of mobile device information
abstract: Methods and apparatus for verifying authenticity of device information of an end-user device are provided herein. In some embodiments, a method for verifying authenticity of device information of an end-user device may include sending a request to verify device information of an end-user device receiving, responsive to the request, verification information regarding the device information sent, and performing a verification analysis on the verification information received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210574&OS=09210574&RS=09210574
owner: Vonage Network LLC
number: 09210574
owner_city: Holmdel
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150213
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 962 020 filed Aug. 8 2013 which is incorporated hereby reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to telecommunication systems and more particularly to a method and apparatus for verifying the authenticity of device information of a telephony device.

Telephony service providers and or mobile app developers may wish to provide telephony services to an end user through an app. For example telephony service providers may provide mobile apps that users can install on their smartphone or other type of mobile devices that allow users to make Voice over IP VoIP calls from their mobile phone.

Calls from a VoIP caller typically display the caller ID CID information of the caller to the called party. Upon installation registration of the mobile VoIP app the mobile VoIP app may prompt users to enter the phone number of the device before using the app. However the user may potentially enter any phone number to be used as the CID since there is no inherent verification that the number provided is actually associated with the device or even belongs to the user . That is the inventor has observed that it is very easy for a VoIP caller to spoof his her CID to appear as someone they are not. CID information is often centrally maintained on a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN in a Caller Name CNAM database. Generally service providers access the CNAM database to retrieve caller ID data. However the CNAM request for information is based on the calling number that is provided by the caller and in the case of a VoIP call that number is freely editable by the caller without any verification. This prevents called parties from screening calls from unknown or undesirable callers such as telemarketers .

Mobile apps may attempt to verify and update the correct device phone number through an automatic API call to the device s operating system. However this method is similarly deficient as the device user could simply replace the device phone number with any number of her choosing for example by modifying the information in the phone s settings.

Other methods to prevent undesired spoofing may include independent verification that the claimed telephone number provided by the user is in fact associated with the user s device. This is typically done through an out of band channel that maps to that phone number such as a phone call or SMS to that phone number. However this approach may be inconvenient and more costly as it requires additional steps time and resources to perform the authentication. Moreover such out of band means may be unreliable such as when the user is roaming . In addition this method could potentially be abused by requesting out of band verifications to numbers owned by persons who have no desire to use the app.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art for a convenient way to authenticate the association between a telephone number and a given device without resorting to out of band authentication steps.

Methods and apparatus for verifying authenticity of device information of an end user device are provided herein. In some embodiments a method for verifying authenticity of device information of an end user device may include sending a request to verify device information of an end user device receiving responsive to the request verification information regarding the device information sent and performing a verification analysis on the verification information received.

In some embodiments a method for verifying authenticity of device information of an end user device may include receiving device information from an end user device performing a database lookup operation using at least a portion of the device information received to obtain verification information for verifying authenticity of the device information and sending at least one of a portion of the verification information obtained or an indication that at least a portion of the device information has either been verified or not verified.

In some embodiments a system for verifying authenticity of device information of an end user device may include a device information module to obtain device information stored on the end user device a transmission module to send requests for verification information and to receive requested verification information wherein the request includes at least a portion of the device information obtained and a verification module to verify authenticity of the device information obtained used the verification information received.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. The figures are not drawn to scale and may be simplified for clarity. It is contemplated that elements and features of one embodiment may be beneficially incorporated in other embodiments without further recitation.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate methods and apparatus for verifying the authenticity of device information of a telephony device. Embodiments of the present invention advantageously improve upon the CID feature particularly with respect to Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service providers and mobile apps used in providing VoIP telephony service. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the present invention can also be used with non VoIP telephony mobile apps that may also need to verify the authenticity of identification information of a mobile device.

Some portions of the detailed description which follow are presented in terms of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

In the following description the terms VoIP system VoIP telephony system Internet protocol IP system and IP telephony system are all intended to refer to a system that connects callers and that delivers data text and video communications using IP data communications. After a user subscribes to a VoIP service the user can make receive phone calls to from other VoIP subscribers or to public switched telephone network PSTN customers and access a number of features associated with the VoIP service such as call waiting three way calling call forwarding voicemail service and the like.

As illustrated in a communications environment is provided to facilitate IP enhanced communications. An IP telephony system enables connection of telephone calls between its own customers and other parties via data communications that pass over a data network . The data network is commonly the Internet although the IP telephony system may also make use of private data networks. The IP telephony system is connected to the Internet . In addition the IP telephony system is connected to a PSTN via a gateway . The PSTN may also be directly coupled to the Internet through one of its own internal gateways not shown . Thus communications may pass back and forth between the IP telephony system and the PSTN through the Internet via a gateway maintained within the PSTN .

The gateway allows users and devices that are connected to the PSTN to connect with users and devices that are reachable through the IP telephony system and vice versa. In some instances the gateway would be a part of the IP telephony system . In other instances the gateway could be maintained by a third party.

Customers of the IP telephony system can place and receive telephone calls using an IP telephone that is connected to the Internet . Such an IP telephone could be connected to an Internet service provider via a wired connection or via a wireless router. In some instances the IP telephone could utilize the data channel of a cellular telephone system to access the Internet .

Alternatively a customer could utilize an analog telephone which is connected to the Internet via a telephone adapter . The telephone adapter converts analog signals from the telephone into data signals that pass over the Internet and vice versa. Analog telephone devices include but are not limited to standard telephones and document imaging devices such as facsimile machines. A configuration using a telephone adapter is common where the analog telephone is located in a residence or business. Other configurations are also possible where multiple analog telephones share access through the same IP adaptor. In those situations all analog telephones could share the same telephone number or multiple communication lines e.g. additional telephone numbers may provisioned by the IP telephony system .

In addition a customer could utilize a soft phone client running on a computer to place and receive IP based telephone calls and to access other IP telephony systems not shown . In some instances the soft phone client could be assigned its own telephone number. In other instances the soft phone client could be associated with a telephone number that is also assigned to an IP telephone or to a telephone adaptor that is connected one or more analog telephones .

Users of the IP telephony system are able to access the service from virtually any location where they can connect to the Internet . Thus a customer could register with an IP telephony system provider in the U.S. and that customer could then use an IP telephone located in a country outside the U.S. to access the services. Likewise the customer could also utilize a computer outside the U.S. that is running a soft phone client to access the IP telephony system .

A third party using an analog telephone which is connected to the PSTN may call a customer of the IP telephony system . In this instance the call is initially connected from the analog telephone to the PSTN and then from the PSTN through the gateway to the IP telephony system . The IP telephony system then routes the call to the customer s IP telephony device. A third party using a cellular telephone could also place a call to an IP telephony system customer and the connection would be established in a similar manner although the first link would involve communications between the cellular telephone and a cellular telephone network. For purposes of this explanation the cellular telephone network is considered part of the PSTN .

In the following description references will be made to an IP telephony device. This term is used to refer to any type of device which is capable of interacting with an IP telephony system to complete an audio or video telephone call or to send and receive text messages and other forms of communications. An IP telephony device could be an IP telephone a computer running IP telephony software a telephone adapter which is itself connected to a normal analog telephone or some other type of device capable of communicating via data packets. An IP telephony device could also be a cellular telephone or a portable computing device that runs a software application that enables the device to act as an IP telephone. Thus a single device might be capable of operating as both a cellular telephone that can facilitate calls over voice channels and an IP telephone that can facilitate calls over data channels.

The following description will also refer to a mobile telephony device. The term mobile telephony device is intended to encompass multiple different types of devices. In some instances a mobile telephony device could be a cellular telephone. In other instances a mobile telephony device may be a mobile computing device such as the APPLE IPHONE that includes both cellular telephone capabilities and a wireless data transceiver that can establish a wireless data connection to a data network. Such a mobile computing device could run appropriate mobile apps to conduct VoIP telephone calls via a wireless data connection. Thus a mobile computing device such as an APPLE IPHONE a RIM BLACKBERRY or a comparable device running GOOGLE ANDROID operating system could be a mobile telephony device.

In still other instances a mobile telephony device may be a device that is not traditionally used as a telephony device but which includes a wireless data transceiver that can establish a wireless data connection to a data network. Examples of such devices include the APPLE IPOD TOUCH and the IPAD. Such a device may act as a mobile telephony device once it is configured with appropriate application software.

Although not illustrated in the mobile computing device may be capable of establishing a wireless data connection to a data network such as the Internet via alternate means. For example the mobile computing device might link to some other type of wireless interface using an alternate communication protocol such as the WiMax standard.

The end user device comprises a Central Processing Unit CPU support circuits memory and the display device . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The various support circuits facilitate the operation of the CPU and include one or more clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and the like. The memory comprises at least one of Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and or the like. In some embodiments the memory comprises an operating system network ID device ID s and a mobile app .

The operating system OS generally manages various computer resources e.g. network resources file processors and or the like . The operating system is configured to execute operations on one or more hardware and or software modules such as Network Interface Cards NICs hard disks virtualization layers firewalls and or the like. Examples of the operating system may include but are not limited to various versions of LINUX MAC OSX BSD UNIX MICROSOFT WINDOWS IOS ANDROID and the like. In some embodiments operating system may include an application programming interface API which can be used to access and user device information and features such as for example by mobile app .

The network ID is associated with the location of the device. It can be a phone number or IP address for example. The network ID may be entered by the user or directly obtained from the operating system e.g. through API calls . The network ID is typically used as the caller ID information or used as a lookup key to obtain caller ID information from a CNAM system.

The device ID is an identifier associated with the device. It can be accessed directly from the operating system e.g. through API calls . Some non limiting examples of device identifiers that may be used in embodiments consistent with the present invention include an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI an International Mobile Station Equipment Identity IMEI a push notification token a Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity TMSI and the like.

An IMSI may be used to identify the user of a cellular network and is a unique identification associated with all cellular networks. It is stored as a 64 bit field and is sent by the phone to the network. It is generally a 15 digit number. The first 3 digits are the mobile country code MCC which designates the country of the mobile network operator. The second 2 or 3 digits are the mobile network code MNC which designates the particular mobile network operator in the country. The remaining digits are the mobile subscription identification number MSIN which identify a particular subscriber within the service provider s customer base. In some embodiments the IMSI may be accessible for example through API calls made to the operating system . In some embodiments a third party authentication entity e.g. such as device information authentication entity would need to verify the IMSI with the end user s service provider.

An IMEI is a number that uniquely identifies a given phone. Unlike the IMSI the IMEI is not related to the subscriber but to the device itself. The IMEI is typically only used for identifying the device and has no permanent or semi permanent relation to the subscriber. An IMEI may be accessible for example through API calls made to the operating system .

A push notification token identifies an instance of a mobile app on a specific device. Other mobile apps on the same device will have a different ID. The same instance of a mobile app on a different device will also have a different ID. Push notification tokens are used some mobile operating systems such as APPLE IOS. In some embodiments the push notification token is generated as a result of a request from the mobile app the first time it is launched. For example a request from a mobile app installed on an IPHONE may be sent to APPLE which generates the token sends it back to the IPHONE where it is picked up e.g. via an OS API or a automatic notification and processed by the mobile app. From there the mobile app can send the token to its servers. In some embodiments a third party authentication entity e.g. such as device information authentication entity would need to verify the push notification token with the operator of the push notification service e.g. APPLE PUSH NOTIFICATION SERVICE.

TMSI is an alternative to IMSI. In some embodiments the TMSI changes every time the device switches location and thus may be considered to be even more secure than an IMSI or MEI . TMSI is randomly assigned to every mobile in a specific area the moment it is switched on. The TMSI number assigned is local to a location area and so it has to be updated each time the mobile device moves to a new geographical area. The TMSI device information may be collected via API calls to the operating system .

In some embodiments the mobile app is a VoIP app that provides over the top OTT VoIP telephony services to an end user. In some embodiments OTT content describes broadband delivery of media data services without a traditional cellular service provider e.g. PSTN provider being involved in the control or distribution of the content itself. The provider may be aware of the contents of the IP packets but is not responsible for nor able to control the viewing abilities copyrights and or other redistribution of the content. In some embodiments an end user may download the mobile app from service provider system or from an app distribution system associated with the service provider system and install the mobile app on their device. Although the mobile app is described herein as a separate stand alone application in some embodiments the mobile app may be integrated into OS and may use existing API calls provided by the OS to access or control various features of the end user device .

In some embodiments mobile app may include a device information module transmission module a verification module and verified caller ID information CID . In some embodiments the device information module may be used to obtain device information stored on the end user device . The device information obtained includes network ID device IDs . The device information module may use API calls to operating system to obtain the device information. Transmission module may be used to send and receive information that will be used by verification module to verify the device information and in particular the network ID of end user device that may have been set by an end user associated with the end user device . In some embodiments the transmission module may encrypt information that will be used by verification module to verify the device information or otherwise transmit the information in a secure format. In some embodiments the verified CID may be stored in a secure format e.g. encrypted or the like and assessable only by mobile app i.e. may not be accessed or modified by an end user .

The networks comprise one or more communication systems that connect computers by wire cable fiber optic and or wireless link facilitated by various types of well known network elements such as hubs switches routers and the like. The networks may include an Internet Protocol IP network such as internet of a public switched telephone network PSTN such as the PSTN network of PSTN provider of or other mobile communication networks and may employ various well known protocols to communicate information amongst the network resources.

In some embodiments service provider system may be a VoIP service provider or a mobile app developer. Service provider system may include an authentication system that may be used to verify the authenticity of the device information provided by end user device . The authentication system comprises a Central Processing Unit CPU support circuits memory and an optional the display device . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The various support circuits facilitate the operation of the CPU and include one or more clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and the like. The memory comprises at least one of Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and or the like. In some embodiments the memory comprises an operating system transmission module and verification module . The operating system OS generally manages various computer resources e.g. network resources file processors and or the like . The operating system is configured to execute operations on one or more hardware and or software modules such as Network Interface Cards NICs hard disks virtualization layers firewalls and or the like. Examples of the operating system may include but are not limited to various versions of LINUX MAC OSX BSD UNIX MICROSOFT WINDOWS IOS ANDROID and the like.

In some embodiments device information authentication entity may be a entity that provides authentication verification information to service provider system by agreement. In some embodiments authentication entity may be or maintain a database that associates network IDs and device IDs of end users. Database may be any data structure or data source that maintains an association of network IDs and device IDs . The service provider system may have direct or indirect access to database . For example database may exist on the service provider system direct access or be accessible through a third party network indirect access . For example the service provider system may be a VoIP service provider or a mobile app developer that provides OTT telephony services and may have agreements with trusted third party providers to allow access to IMSI phone number association databases. It is also possible to have similar arrangements with other entities such as corporate enterprise services administrators for IMEI phone number association databases.

For example in at least one embodiment where device information authentication entity may be a third party entity end user device may be an IPHONE and device information authentication entity may be a device OS manufacturer e.g. APPLE . APPLE may maintain a database of information associated with end user device such as network IDs and device IDs e.g. an association of telephone numbers and IMEIs . Service provider system may have an agreement with APPLE provide device information verification information when requested.

Exemplary methods that may be performed by one or more elements of system for verifying authenticity of device information of an end user device are described below with respect to . depicts a flow diagram of a method verifying authenticity of device information of an end user device. The method starts at and proceeds to . At device information from an end user device is obtained. In some embodiments the device information includes a network ID s and device ID s associated with an end user device . In some embodiments the device information may be requested or otherwise obtained by device information module of mobile app via API calls to operating system . In other embodiments the device information may be obtained by an authentication system of a service provider system . For example transmission module may receive the device information from an end user device .

After the device information is obtained at a request to verify that the device information obtained may be sent at . In some embodiments the request may include at least a portion of the device information obtained. For example the request may include only the network ID only the device ID or both. In some embodiments the request may include multiple network IDs and or multiple device IDs . The requests may be sent over a secure e.g. encrypted channel . The format of the requests sent may be in a predetermined standard format protocol recognizable by the receiving device. For example exemplary formats protocols used may include a Type Length Value TLV XML JS VCard HTTP message formats SIP message formats and the like.

In some embodiments the request may be prepared and sent by transmission module of mobile app on end user device . The request may be sent to an authentication system service provider system . In embodiments where the method is performed by authentication system the request may be sent by transmission module of authentication system to another internal or external authentication entity such as e.g. device information authentication entity .

At verification information is received responsive to the request sent. In some embodiments the verification information may be received from an authentication system of service provider system which may have obtained the requested information from an internal or external i.e. third party device information authentication entity . In other embodiments the verification may be received directly from a device information authentication entity . The verification information may include one or more network IDs and or device IDs associated with the device information sent in the request. The type of information included in the verification information is based on the device information sent in the request. For example if a network ID was sent in the request at the verification information received may include a device ID that was associated with network ID sent. If a device ID was sent in the request at the verification information received may include a network ID that was associated with the device ID sent. If both a network ID and a device ID were included in the request at the verification information received may include a network ID and device ID associated with the network ID and device ID sent in the request. In some embodiments if both network ID and device ID were included in the request at the verification information may include an indication or notification that the network ID was either verified or not verified. The above examples are non limiting and it is understood that other combinations of device information sent verification information received may be used in embodiments consistent with the present invention.

After receiving the verification information at a verification analysis is performed on the verification information received at . In some embodiments the verification analysis may be performed by verification module of end user device or may be performed by verification module of authentication system .

If the verification information received only includes a device ID associated with network ID that was sent in the request at then the verification analysis performed includes comparing device ID of end user device i.e. the first device ID with the received device ID included in the verification information i.e. the second device ID . If device ID matches device ID then it is determined that the authenticity of network ID that was sent in the request at has been verified. In some embodiments after the network ID has been verified mobile app will store the verified network ID as a verified caller ID to be used as caller ID information when making telephone calls via mobile app . Otherwise if device ID does not match device ID received in the verification information then it is determined that the authenticity of the network ID that was sent to the request has not been verified. If a network ID has not been verified the device may default to an existing out of band channel verification scheme e.g. SMS verification as described above. In other embodiments if a network ID has not been verified the mobile app may display or otherwise indicate that the Caller ID was not verified to users receiving communications from the unverified device. Still in other embodiments the mobile app may not allow the use the app unless at least a portion of the device information has been verified.

If the verification information received only includes a network ID associated with device ID that was sent in the request at then the verification analysis performed includes comparing network ID of end user device i.e. the first network ID with the received network ID included in the verification information i.e. the second network ID . If network ID matches network ID then it is determined that the authenticity of the network ID has been verified. In some embodiments after the network ID has been verified mobile app will store the verified network ID as a verified caller ID to be used as caller ID information when making telephone calls via mobile app . Otherwise if network ID does not match network ID received in the verification information then it is determined that the authenticity of the network ID has not been verified. In some embodiments if network ID does not match network ID i.e. network ID has not been verified mobile app will store the network ID as a verified caller ID to be used as caller ID information when making telephone calls via mobile app .

In some embodiments if the verification information received includes an indication that the first network ID has either been verified are not verified the verification analysis performed may include determining whether the network ID has been verified are not based on indication and updating the verified caller ID accordingly.

For example in some embodiments if only network ID is received at then a device ID associated with network ID is obtained by performing a lookup operation on database using network ID as a lookup key at step . At the device ID obtained will be sent to the end user device . The method ends at .

If at only the device ID is received from end user device then network ID associated with device ID is obtained by performing a lookup operation on database using device ID F the lookup key at step . At the network ID obtained will be sent to the end user device . The method ends at .

If at both network ID and device ID are received from the end user device then authentication system may use either the received device ID or the received network ID to obtain at step the associated device information from database to perform a verification analysis. For example at authentication system may obtain device ID by performing a lookup operation on database using network ID as a lookup key. At authentication system may perform a verification analysis by comparing the obtained device ID with the received device ID . Based on the results of the comparison performed authentication system may send an indication that at least a portion of the device information has either been verified or not verified at . In some embodiments the device information received from end user device at step may be sent directly to a device information authentication entity . The device information authentication entity may provide device information from database to the system device requesting the information or may provide an indication that the device information sent to it is verified or not verified.

The embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as methods apparatus electronic devices and or computer program products. Accordingly the embodiments of the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code and the like which may be generally referred to herein as a circuit or module . Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the function specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium include the following hard disks optical storage devices magnetic storage devices an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a compact disc read only memory CD ROM .

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk or C and the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language and or any other lower level assembler languages. It will be further appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be implemented using discrete hardware components one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs or programmed Digital Signal Processors or microcontrollers.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various embodiments of method and apparatus for organizing displaying and accessing contacts in a contact list as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is computer system illustrated by which may in various embodiments implement any of the elements or functionality illustrated in . In various embodiments computer system may be configured to implement methods described above. The computer system may be used to implement any other system device element functionality or method of the above described embodiments. In the illustrated embodiments computer system may be configured to implement methods and as processor executable executable program instructions e.g. program instructions executable by processor s in various embodiments.

In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In various embodiments any of the components may be utilized by the system to receive user input described above. In various embodiments a user interface may be generated and displayed on display . In some cases it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of various embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements. In another example multiple nodes may implement computer system in a distributed manner.

In different embodiments computer system may be any of various types of devices including but not limited to a personal computer system desktop computer laptop notebook or netbook computer mainframe computer system handheld computer workstation network computer a camera a set top box a mobile device a consumer device video game console handheld video game device application server storage device a peripheral device such as a switch modem router or in general any type of computing or electronic device.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs . In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing any of the elements of the embodiments described above may be stored within system memory . In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network e.g. network such as one or more external systems or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network may include one or more networks including but not limited to Local Area Networks LANs e.g. an Ethernet or corporate network Wide Area Networks WANs e.g. the Internet wireless data networks some other electronic data network or some combination thereof. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fiber Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

In some embodiments the illustrated computer system may implement any of the methods described above such as the methods illustrated by the flowcharts of . In other embodiments different elements and data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of embodiments. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions of various embodiments including computers network devices Internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers and the like. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium or via a communication medium. In general a computer accessible medium may include a storage medium or memory medium such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM and the like ROM and the like.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted or otherwise modified. All examples described herein are presented in a non limiting manner. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure. Realizations in accordance with embodiments have been described in the context of particular embodiments. These embodiments are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

