---

title: Dipole antenna with micro strip line stub feed
abstract: Various embodiments are described that relate to a line feed and a dipole element. The line feed can be supplied directly with a current without a balun. Being supplied with this current can cause the line feed to emit an electromagnetic field. This electromagnetic field can excite a dipole element with two sides. Through this excitement, the dipole element can have current flowing in a uniform direction on both sides.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09653811&OS=09653811&RS=09653811
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09653811
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150522
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

Communication can occur between two devices. These devices can each employ an antenna to facilitate such communication. The better performing the antenna the better the communication that can occur between the two devices. In view of this it may be beneficial to have a better performing antenna.

In actual usage antennas can be attached to vehicles equipment and the like. As time goes on these antennas can break. A low cost replacement antenna can be a valuable tool. In view of this it may be beneficial for these antenna to be of a relatively low cost.

In one embodiment a system can comprise a dipole element and a line feed. The line feed can be configured to be supplied with a current such that the line feed emits an electromagnetic field when supplied with the current. The electromagnetic field can excite the dipole element such that the dipole element is balanced.

In one embodiment a system can comprise an antenna and a connector. The antenna can comprise a dipole element a line feed and a separator that separates the dipole element from the line feed such that the dipole element and the line feed do not touch. The connector can be configured to connect to a current supply to the antenna such that the line feed is provided the current. The line feed can be provided the current and when this occurs the line feed can emit an electromagnetic field that interacts with the dipole element. The dipole element can be excited by the electromagnetic field such that current flows through the dipole element.

In one embodiment a system comprises a dipole element and a line feed. The dipole element can comprise a first radiating element and a second radiating element. The line feed can be substantially parallel to the dipole element and does not touch the dipole element. The line feed can emit an electromagnetic field that excites the dipole element such that the first radiating element and the second radiating element have current travelling in a uniform direction.

In one embodiment an antenna can be supplied with an unbalanced current but the antenna can function in a balanced manner. One way to have the antenna function in a balanced manner while being supplied with an unbalanced current is employment of a balun. Example baluns that can be used are a current balun a folded dipole to coax balun e.g. 300 Ohms to 75 Ohms or a sleeve balun.

Adding the balun however adds another part to the antenna. This added part not only is likely to increase manufacturing costs but adds complexity to the antenna. The more complex the antenna the more challenging the antenna can be to install correct or replace.

To alleviate these drawbacks of a balun an antenna can be used that does not include a balun. Two parallel and separated portions can be part of the antenna a dipole portion and a micro strip line stub feed. The micro strip line stub feed can be provided the current directly and in response to being provided this current can emit an electromagnetic field. This electromagnetic field can excite the dipole element such that current flows through the dipole element in a balanced manner.

The benefits of aspects disclosed herein to connect a dipole antenna with an unbalanced feed line are significant. Typically a balun can be used to improve but not fully resolve a dipole antenna radiation pattern shape that has been distorted when using unbalanced cable. The micro strip line stub feed can be able to resolve the dipole antenna radiation pattern more finely by further limiting an amount of common mode current flowing in the feed line as compared to a balun. Other improvements over using a balun can include wider impedance bandwidth allowing for more efficient performance over a larger frequency range and cheaper manufacturing costs due to the simplicity of the design. In one example an impedance bandwidth with a balun can be about wavelength while an impedance bandwidth based on length of a dipole element can be about wavelength.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

While the line feed is illustrated as being in a hook shape various other shapes can be used. The line feed can be supplied with a current e.g. supplied with an electric current or supplied with a voltage . In response to being supplied with this current the line feed can emit an electromagnetic field in multiple directions. As part of this multiple direction emission the electromagnetic field can pass over the dipole element .

The dipole element can be excited by the electromagnetic field. This excitement can occur through an exciting point e.g. an open space for the dipole element . This excitement can cause the dipole element to be balanced.

The dipole element and the line feed can be on substantially parallel planes to one another that are different planes. This way they do not touch. However they can be close enough together so the line feed excites the dipole element .

This excitement can cause current to flow through the dipole element . The dipole element can have different sides a first radiating element and a second radiating element . These sides can be balanced and being balanced can include current flowing in a uniform direction on both sides of the dipole element . The dipole element can physically touch one side of the separation when the separation is a solid substrate while the line feed can physically touch the opposite side of the solid substrate without touching the dipole element . Depth of the solid substrate that separates the dipole element from the line feed can influence impedance matching of the dipole element .

To produce the electromagnetic field that excites the dipole element to ultimately be balanced the line feed can receive the current . The current can be received by way of a connector . The connector can be configured to directly connect with a supplier of the current . In one embodiment the supplier of the current is a coaxial cable . The coaxial cable can be unbalanced yet the dipole element when excited by the electromagnetic field can be balanced.

In one embodiment the dipole element the line feed and the separator e.g. that is at least in part a solid substrate can form an antenna. The separator can be at least in part a solid substrate and the line feed and the dipole element can be printed on the substrate. The separator can separate the dipole element from the line feed such that the dipole element and the line feed do not touch but are on substantially parallel planes to one another. The connector can be configured to connect to a current supply e.g. the coaxial cable to the antenna such that the line feed is provided the current. The coaxial cable can directly connect to the connector such that a balun is not used. When the line feed is provided the current the line feed can emit an electromagnetic field e.g. emit an electromagnetic field substantially over a circumference of the coaxial cable that interacts with the dipole element . The dipole element can excited by the electromagnetic field such that the current flows through the dipole element. The current supply can be unbalanced and introduces an impedance mismatch e.g. that is mitigated by the line feed while the dipole element is balanced when the current flows through the dipole element .

In one embodiment the system can be used in implementation of a new type of dipole design and impedance matching using a micro strip line feed rather than using a balun. The line feed can be implemented in parallel to the two radiating elements and of the dipole element and can also be aligned to the center of a gap between the elements e.g. the exciting point of . By adding the line feed the impedance mismatch that is introduced by using unbalanced cable e.g. the coaxial cable can be rectified. In addition to impedance matching the feed line of can allow for the current to travel in the same e.g. parallel direction on the two radiating elements and of the dipole element due to the electromagnetic field that is generated. A separation gap between the two radiating elements and of the dipole element can be optimized for impedance matching of the dipole element and for distribution of the current across the elements and . This optimization can be scalable for a dipole element based at least in part on a frequency desired. The dipole element and or the system can be unrestricted by size shape layering and or by dielectric conductor material combination.

The electromagnetic field can be emitted substantially over a circumference of the coaxial cable . This way the electromagnetic field can be considered as returning to the coaxial cable and in essence completing a loop. This can lead to improved performance of the system of .

The substrate component can form a substrate that functions as the separation of . A block of substrate material can enter the substrate component and the substrate component can determine desired dimensions e.g. shape and thickness of the substrate. The substrate component can then cut the block of substrate material into the substrate with the desired dimensions.

The copper component can form and or attach to the substrate the dipole element of . Similarly the copper component can form and or attach to the substrate the line feed of . The copper component can be used when the dipole element of and or the line feed of are made of copper. Another component can be used when the dipole element of and or the line feed of are made of another material e.g. a metallic material that is electrically conductive .

In one embodiment a printing technique can be used by the copper component . The copper component can cause the line feed of to be printed on a first side of the substrate. The copper component can cause the dipole element of to be printed on an opposite side of substrate from the first side. This printing on these sides can occur concurrently and or in series. Other manufacturing techniques other than printing can be used and a material other than copper can be used e.g. used for the dipole element of and or the line feed of .

At the line feed of can emit the electromagnetic field of . The electromagnetic field of can be emitted multi directionally. It may be possible for the electromagnetic field of to excite the dipole element of as well as be used for another purpose.

In one embodiment the system of can be manufactured by way of the method such that a balun is not necessary for use although one could be used if desired . As part of the method there can be adding the connector of that allows for a current supply e.g. the coaxial cable of to be directly connected to the system of . This way the method can be part of a highly controlled and repeatable manufacturing process that can produce systems at a relatively low cost.

While the methods disclosed herein are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the methods are not restricted by the order of the blocks as some blocks can take place in different orders. Similarly a block can operate concurrently with at least one other block.

Aspects disclosed herein can used generally in the field of electromagnetics such as in radio frequency engineering and antenna design. Use of the line feed of can allow for an impedance matched dipole antenna e.g. the system of can be a dipole antenna . This impedance matched dipole antenna can have relatively wide impedance bandwidth and improved pattern shape.

The dipole element of can be sensitive to its electrical length due to its feed point impedance. As a result of the sensitive nature of the dipole element of an optimal Radio Frequency RF performance can be limited to a narrow bandwidth due to the impedance mismatch with a transmission line as frequency varies. The dipole element of can be designed to be RF balanced e.g. both radiating elements and of have equal yet opposite traveling voltage with respect to ground . For this reason a preferred feeding method could be using a balanced transmission line. However a common transmission line used in applications is coaxial. Coaxial cable can be unbalanced indicating a single ground potential. By feeding an RF balanced antenna such as a dipole antenna with an unbalanced transmission line many undesirable characteristics can surface as a result of this combination. A typical radiation pattern for the dipole antenna can be an omnidirectional toroid shape when combining a balanced antenna with an unbalanced transmission line the radiation pattern is distorted due to common mode currents causing the unbalanced cable to radiate. Also an impedance can be changed thus creating mismatch which reduces power transfer and increases signal reflections. To reduce effects of the mismatch a balun can be added between the transmission line e.g. the coaxial cable of and an antenna feed terminal e.g. the connector of to convert the unbalanced signal current to a balanced one for the dipole element of . While the balun alleviates at least some of the degradation that occurs when using mismatched antenna and line the balun adds complexity to the antenna design. In addition the antenna naturally has a larger and possibly undesirable footprint due to the added balun. Also the balun introduces added costs due to the cost of the unit itself and additional antenna fabrication step. In view of this it may be desirable to have a design with similar results without using the balun.

