---

title: Method and apparatus for associating micro-blogs with media programs
abstract: A system that incorporates teachings of the present disclosure may operate, for example, according to a method for identifying subsets of blogs from a collection of blogs according to a relevance of each subset of blogs to one of a plurality of media programs deliverable to a plurality of subscriber devices, determining for each subset of blogs one or more trends, detecting a subscriber device from the plurality of subscriber devices, selecting a media program from the plurality of media programs, selecting one of the subsets of blogs that is relevant to the media program, and supplying the subscriber device the selected subset of blogs with the one or more trends determined for the select subset of blogs. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307275&OS=09307275&RS=09307275
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, LP
number: 09307275
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150625
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 105 953 filed May 12 2011 by Junlan Feng et al. entitled Method and Apparatus for Associating Micro Blogs with Media Programs. All sections of the aforementioned application s are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to a method and apparatus for associating micro blogs with media programs.

Online social networks such as Facebook Twitter MySpace and LinkedIn have gained substantial popularity in recent years. Some analysts believe that social networks or blog sites are visited by three quarters of global consumers who go online.

The present disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments for associating micro blogs with media programs and deriving trends therefrom. Other embodiments are contemplated by the present disclosure.

One embodiment of the present disclosure includes a device that has a memory coupled to a processor. The processor can be operable to receive a collection of micro blogs and identify subsets of micro blogs from the collection of micro blogs where each subset of micro blogs is identified according to a relevance of the subset to one of a plurality of television programs deliverable to a plurality of set top boxes. The processor can be further operable to determine for each subset of micro blogs one or more trends detect a set top box from the plurality of set top boxes requesting a television program from the plurality of television programs and supply to the set top box a selection of one of the subsets of micro blogs identified as relevant to the requested television program for concurrent presentation of the requested television program and a graphical user interface that presents at least a portion of the selected subset of micro blogs and one or more trends associated therewith.

One embodiment of the present disclosure includes a media processor that has a memory coupled to a processor. The processor can be operable to receive a selection to present a media program and receive from a device at least one of a subset of micro blogs and one or more trends associated with the subset of micro blogs. The subset of micro blogs can be selected by the device from a collection of micro blogs according to a relevance of the subset of micro blogs to the selected media program.

One embodiment of the present disclosure includes a method for identifying subsets of blogs from a collection of blogs according to a relevance of each subset of blogs to one of a plurality of media programs deliverable to a plurality of subscriber devices determining for each subset of blogs one or more trends detecting a subscriber device from the plurality of subscriber devices selecting a media program from the plurality of media programs selecting one of the subsets of blogs that is relevant to the media program and supplying the subscriber device the selected subset of blogs with the one or more trends determined for the select subset of blogs.

The VHS can distribute multimedia broadcast content via an access network to commercial and or residential buildings housing a gateway such as a residential or commercial gateway . The access network can represent a group of digital subscriber line access multiplexers DSLAMs located in a central office or a service area interface that provide broadband services over fiber optical links or copper twisted pairs to buildings . The gateway can use common communication technology to distribute broadcast signals to media processors such as Set Top Boxes STBs which in turn present broadcast channels to media devices such as computers or television sets managed in some instances by a media controller such as an infrared or RF remote controller .

The gateway the media processors and media devices can utilize tethered communication technologies such as coaxial powerline or phone line wiring or can operate over a wireless access protocol such as Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth Zigbee or other present or next generation local or personal area wireless network technologies. By way of these interfaces unicast communications can also be invoked between the media processors and subsystems of the IPTV media system for services such as video on demand VoD browsing an electronic programming guide EPG or other infrastructure services.

A satellite broadcast television system can be used also in the media system of . The satellite broadcast television system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment signals transmitted by a satellite carrying media content can be received by a satellite dish receiver coupled to the building . Modulated signals received by the satellite dish receiver can be transferred to the media processors for demodulating decoding encoding and or distributing broadcast channels to the media devices . The media processors can be equipped with a broadband port to the Internet Service Provider ISP network to enable interactive services such as VoD and EPG as described above.

In yet another embodiment an analog or digital cable broadcast distribution system such as cable TV system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system and or the satellite TV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment the cable TV system can also provide Internet telephony and interactive media services.

It is contemplated that the present disclosure can apply to any present or next generation over the air and or landline media content services system.

Some of the network elements of the IPTV media system can be coupled to one or more computing devices a portion of which can operate as a web server for providing web portal services over an ISP network to wireline media devices or wireless communication devices .

Multiple forms of media services can be offered to media devices over landline technologies such as those described above. Additionally media services can be offered to media devices by way of a wireless access base station operating according to common wireless access protocols such as Global System for Mobile or GSM Code Division Multiple Access or CDMA Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications or UMTS World interoperability for Microwave or WiMAX Software Defined Radio or SDR Long Term Evolution or LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wide area wireless network technologies are contemplated by the present disclosure.

Communication system can also provide for all or a portion of the computing devices to function as a plurality of servers herein referred to as servers . The plurality of servers can use common computing and communication technology to operate as a Data Manager a Data Mining Module an Application Server an EPG database and a Speech Mashup Portal. Each of these servers can perform functions which includes among things organizing micro blogs according to their respective relevance to media programs supplied by communication system mining the micro blogs according to sentiment analysis retrieving EPG data based on media program selections at the media processor and speech to text conversion or translation based on speech detected by controller . The aforementioned functions can interact with functions and operating in the remote devices media processors and controller .

Communication system can comprise a Home Subscriber Server HSS a tElephone NUmber Mapping ENUM server and other common network elements of an IMS network . The IMS network can establish communications between IMS compliant communication devices CDs Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN CDs and combinations thereof by way of a Media Gateway Control Function MGCF coupled to a PSTN network . The MGCF need not be used when a communication session involves IMS CD to IMS CD communications. A communication session involving at least one PSTN CD may utilize the MGCF .

IMS CDs can register with the IMS network by contacting a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF which communicates with an interrogating CSCF I CSCF which in turn communicates with a Serving CSCF S CSCF to register the CDs with the HSS . To initiate a communication session between CDs an originating IMS CD can submit a Session Initiation Protocol SIP INVITE message to an originating P CSCF which communicates with a corresponding originating S CSCF . The originating S CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to one or more application servers ASs that can provide a variety of services to IMS subscribers.

For example the application servers can be used to perform originating call feature treatment functions on the calling party number received by the originating S CSCF in the SIP INVITE message. Originating treatment functions can include determining whether the calling party number has international calling services call ID blocking calling name blocking 7 digit dialing and or is requesting special telephony features e.g. 72 to forward calls 73 to cancel call forwarding 67 for caller ID blocking and so on . Based on initial filter criteria iFCs in a subscriber profile associated with a CD one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call originating feature services.

Additionally the originating S CSCF can submit queries to the ENUM system to translate an E.164 telephone number in the SIP INVITE message to a SIP Uniform Resource Identifier URI if the terminating communication device is IMS compliant. The SIP URI can be used by an Interrogating CSCF I CSCF to submit a query to the HSS to identify a terminating S CSCF associated with a terminating IMS CD such as reference . Once identified the I CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to the terminating S CSCF . The terminating S CSCF can then identify a terminating P CSCF associated with the terminating CD . The P CSCF may then signal the CD to establish Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communication services thereby enabling the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications. Based on the iFCs in the subscriber profile one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call terminating feature services such as call forwarding do not disturb music tones simultaneous ringing sequential ringing etc.

In some instances the aforementioned communication process is symmetrical. Accordingly the terms originating and terminating in may be interchangeable. It is further noted that communication system can be adapted to support video conferencing. In addition communication system can be adapted to provide the IMS CDs with the multimedia and Internet services of communication system of .

If the terminating communication device is instead a PSTN CD such as CD or CD in instances where the cellular phone only supports circuit switched voice communications the ENUM system can respond with an unsuccessful address resolution which can cause the originating S CSCF to forward the call to the MGCF via a Breakout Gateway Control Function BGCF . The MGCF can then initiate the call to the terminating PSTN CD over the PSTN network to enable the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications.

It is further appreciated that the CDs of can operate as wireline or wireless devices. For example the CDs of can be communicatively coupled to a cellular base station a femtocell a WiFi router a DECT base unit or another suitable wireless access unit to establish communications with the IMS network of . The cellular access base station can operate according to common wireless access protocols such as Global System for Mobile GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications UMTS World interoperability for Microwave WiMAX Software Defined Radio SDR Long Term Evolution LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wireless network technologies are contemplated by the present disclosure. Accordingly multiple wireline and wireless communication technologies are contemplated for the CDs of .

It is contemplated that cellular phones supporting LTE can support packet switched voice and packet switched data communications and thus may operate as IMS compliant mobile devices. In this embodiment the cellular base station may communicate directly with the IMS network .

The servers of can also be operably coupled to the second communication system for purposes similar to those described above. It is further contemplated by the present disclosure that servers can perform function and thereby provide the devices of micro blogs associated with media programs and trends derived therefrom which the devices can present according to functions or . In another embodiment the application servers and of can be adapted to perform the functions of servers .

It is contemplated by the present disclosure that the web portal can further be utilized to manage and provision software applications of servers mobile devices STBs and IMS and PSTN devices and and or server as a Speech Mashup Portal.

The UI can include a depressible or touch sensitive keypad with a navigation mechanism such as a roller ball a joystick a mouse or a navigation disk for manipulating operations of the communication device . The keypad can be an integral part of a housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device operably coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a USB cable or a wireless interface supporting for example Bluetooth. The keypad can represent a numeric keypad commonly used by phones and or a QWERTY keypad with alphanumeric keys. The UI can further include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images to an end user of the communication device . In an embodiment where the display is touch sensitive a portion or all of the keypad can be presented by way of the display with navigation features.

The UI can also include an audio system that utilizes common audio technology for conveying low volume audio such as audio heard only in the proximity of a human ear and high volume audio such as speakerphone for hands free operation . The audio system can further include a microphone for receiving audible signals of an end user. The audio system can also be used for voice recognition applications. The UI can further include an image sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD camera for capturing still or moving images.

The power supply can utilize common power management technologies such as replaceable and rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the communication device to facilitate long range or short range portable applications. The location receiver can utilize common location technology such as a global positioning system GPS receiver capable of assisted GPS for identifying a location of the communication device based on signals generated by a constellation of GPS satellites thereby facilitating common location services such as navigation.

The communication device can use the transceiver to also determine a proximity to a cellular WiFi Bluetooth or other wireless access points by common sensing techniques such as utilizing a received signal strength indicator RSSI and or a signal time of arrival TOA or time of flight TOF . The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP and or a video processor with associated storage memory such as Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or other storage technologies.

The communication device can be adapted to perform the functions of the media processor the media devices or the portable communication devices of as well as the IMS CDs and PSTN CDs of . It will be appreciated that the communication device can also represent other common devices that can operate in communication systems of such as a gaming console and a media player.

It is further contemplated by the present disclosure that the communication device can operate as servers mobile devices STBs and IMS and PSTN devices and adapted to perform any one of functions or combinations thereof.

The archived data and metadata generated from the Data Mining Module can be indexed. The created index can be used by the Application Manager through search application programming interfaces APIs . The Application Manager can integrate archived Twitter data Twitter stream data and data generated from the Data Mining Module into an interactive interface presentable by the STB at a television . The Application Manager can use Automatic Speech Recognition ASR technology to enable users to speak and post tweets. The Data Manager and the Data Mining Module can operate in a communication infrastructure independent of user interactions with the STB whereas the Application Manager handles real time interactions of the user with the STB .

The Data Manager can receive media program information from TV program sources such as IMDB http www.imdb.com Freebase http www.freebase.com Wikipedia http www.wikipedia.org and EPG sources and can retrieve relevant tweets from a micro blogging social network such as Twitter for each TV show through Twitter APIs by issuing queries. The TV program sources are effectively used to create additional queries in order to more accurately retrieve relevant tweets such as queries for actors on a particular show in order to retrieve those tweets where only the actor names are mentioned and where the program title is not mentioned . A task of the Data Manager is to collect tweets relevant to each TV program with a reasonable degree of precision.

The messages on Twitter are in the form of tweets which are short status updates of 140 characters or less . While the writing style and the lexicon of tweets are widely varied many tweets are similar to short message service SMS text messages. Tweets are often highly ungrammatical and filled with spelling errors. The 140 character limit also introduces shorthand notations and shortened URLs. There are a few special symbols allowed in tweets hashtag e.g. obama a topic tag provided by the user username e.g. twUser shortened URLs e.g. http bit.ly 9K4n9p and the retweet symbol RT . It is estimated that 50 million tweets are generated per day.

There are a number of challenges in identifying tweets relevant to a given TV program. First searching for tweets using only the TV program s title as the keyword phrase might find many tweets not relevant to the TV program. For instance some TV programs have titles with generic terms such as house and now . Using these keywords to search for relevant tweets can lead to a low precision result. Second there is an expression gap between languages used in tweets and authorized resources such as TV program databases such as Internet Movie Database IMDB Freebase Wikipedia and others. Users on Twitter refer to a TV program in various ways such as using a program related hashtag or a nickname of the actor. An additional challenge faced is a low recall. Ideally the search retrieval results will have high precision and high recall. Precision is the fraction of the tweets that are classified as relevant to a specific TV program that are correct. High precision would mean you are less likely to incorrectly classify a tweet so the tweets should be relevant to the TV program. Recall is the fraction of the tweets that are relevant to a specific TV program that are successfully retrieved. For example low recall is more severe for TV programs with long titles which most users on Twitter do not use because of the 140 character limit Another challenge is the shortness and informality of tweets which poses challenges even with state of art text classification techniques due to a lack of information. This shortness of tweets coupled with spelling errors and non grammatical writing styles make finding relevant tweets difficult.

The goal of the Crawler 508 is to collect relevant tweets. The present disclosure proposes a bootstrapping approach using machine learning as one possible embodiment to collect relevant tweets for a given TV program. Machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence that allows computers to detect behaviors based on empirical data. An approach proposed in this disclosure begins with a small set of annotated data where for a given TV program and a candidate tweet the TV program and the candidate tweet are annotated to be relevant or irrelevant. From this annotated data set an initial classifier is trained. The classifier features are designed to capture an association between the TV program and the tweet. For instance one classifier feature could learn that messages which mention the names of some actors that play in the current show are likely relevant to that show. Second using the initial classifier and a large dataset of unlabeled messages broader features are derived for a second classifier to further improve the precision of detecting relevant tweets for a specific TV program. Additionally some of the obtained features are also used to improve the recall of the system. Nine features were used for the initial classifier which enabled detection of a tweet containing TV related terms such as an episode if the show title mentioned in the tweet was capitalized as well as the text relevancy between the tweet and for example a Wikipedia page of the corresponding TV program. The second classifier extends the first one with five additional features derived by running the first classifier on a large corpus of unlabeled tweets.

A sample of 3 000 tweets was annotated which were randomly chosen from a tweet collection obtained using three TV program titles Fringe Monk Heroes as the queries. These tweets along with their associated TV program titles were provided to an Amazon Mechanical Turk for annotation. The Amazon Mechanical Turk is a tool that enables computer programmers known as Requesters to co ordinate the use of human intelligence to perform tasks that computers are unable to perform at the present time. After filtering 2 629 annotated tweets were retained. The classifiers were trained on tweets associated with two of the three TV programs and tested on the remaining TV program. The precision of tweets classified as relevant were averaged over the three possible combinations of TV programs. The term precision in the present context is defined to mean a percentage of tweets classified as relevant that are annotated as relevant. The foregoing experimentation achieved 80.1 precision for the first classifier and 84.3 for the second classifier.

The Data Mining Module indexes the collected tweets considered to be relevant analyzes them and supports various types of searches. The Data Mining Module provides aggregated statistics such as sentiment analysis TV show popularity word clouds trending topics and popular messages for each TV program. These statistics can be presented in a TV application page hosted by the Application Manager via Application Web Server operating therein and downloaded to the STB .

A search platform such as SOLR open source enterprise search platform from the Apache Lucene project was used to index the tweets. Along with standard metadata such as author date and text certain information was stored such as information on sentiment analysis the identification of the TV programs mentioned in the tweet and a normalized version of the text used for determining popular tweets as explained below. A Search API can be used to query SOLR and return information to the STB . For instance a SOLR query can return relevant tweets for a given TV program rankings of tweets based on recency number of tweets about a particular TV program for a given time window tweets with positive and negative sentiment and or a word cloud derived from the archived tweets for a given TV program.

Sentiment Analysis Each relevant tweet was classified into one of three sentiment categories Neutral Positive and Negative based on an approach described by L. Barbosa and J. Feng Robust sentiment detection on Twitter from biased and noisy data in Proceedings of the 23International Conference on Computational Linguistics COLING 2010 all relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference. A two step sentiment analysis method was used with noisy training data. Tweets were classified as subjective polar and objective non polar . Polar tweets were distinguished as positive or negative. Training data was collected from three popular Twitter sentiment detection Web sites http twendz.waggeneredstrom.com http twittersentiment.appspot.com http www.tweetfeel.com . The method used in the present disclosure achieved 81.9 accuracy for subjectivity detection and 81.3 for polarity detection positive vs. negative .

Popular Messages Popularity was defined to be a frequency of repetition of content of a tweet e.g. multiple retweets of the same tweet . For each tweet a normalized version was generated by removing the word RT removing mention of usernames user and changing text to lowercase. An MD5 hash Message Digest Algorithm 5 widely used cryptographic hash function of the normalized version was then generated and stored along with the actual tweet text. This technique is described in Dobbertin Hans The Status of MD5 After a Recent Attack . CryptoBytes 2 2 1996 all relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference. Two messages with the same content correspond to the same hash. SOLR can be used with this technique to return popular messages in a certain time frame. For a given TV program SOLR can also rank tweets in descending order based on the frequency of the hash.

The Application Manager can manage real time interactions of the user with system . The Application Manager can be adapted for example to accept input from a voice enabled remote controller . Speech input from the remote controller can be converted into text using the Speech Mashup Portal see G. DiFabbrizio T. Okken and J. Wilpon A Speech Mashup Framework for Multimodal Mobile Services 2009 Cambridge Mass. pp. 1 10 November 2009 all relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference .

Traditionally a remote controller is used for changing channels and navigating TV menus. In system users can navigate TV menus speak tweets by pressing a TALK button on the voice enabled remote controller visualize the speech recognition output on the TV send tweets reply to tweets and retweet tweets.

Each time the user switches channels the STB fetches the TV program information from the EPG database which contains schedule and show information for the upcoming days and uses the TV program name to retrieve tweets relevant to the current show through the Search APIs in the Data Mining Module . The STB displays the TV program in high definition video and the relevant tweets on the same screen by way of a graphical user interface see . In place of or in combination with tweets relevant to the current TV program the STB can also show the users personal tweets on the same screen as the TV program. The STB can also display metadata information of TV programs provided by the Data Mining Module .

Speech Mashup Portal The voice enabled remote controller can stream the user s speech to the Speech Mashup Portal which provides a speech recognition result. The underlying speech recognition engine used in the present disclosure was the AT T Watson see V. Goffin C. Allauzen E. Bocchieri D. Hakkani T r A. Ljolje S. Parthasarathy M. Rahim G. Riccardi and M. Saraclar The AT T WATSON speech recognizer IEEE International Conference on Acoustics Speech and Signal Processing 2005 all relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference . The acoustic and language models of Watson were trained using SMS messages. The STB was adapted to display the recognition result to allow the user to confirm it before posting the tweet using a Twitter status update API.

The role of the Application Web Server was to host an application web page that operated from the STB . The capabilities described above relating to the STB were largely possible because of the Application Web Server . The Application Web Server also ran a web service to handle database requests to the EPG database for retrieving metadata for a given TV channel such as the TV title.

The Program Tweets menu option provides a presentation of tweets relevant to the current TV program as shown at the bottom bar of . In the present illustration only one tweet is shown at a time. The user can navigate between tweets with the right and left arrows surrounding the tweet being displayed. The left most tweet can be the most recent tweet and the tweets can be numbered so a user can keep track of which tweet is being displayed. As new tweets arrive for the current program being watched the numbering can be updated appropriately while keeping the currently viewed tweet in the bottom bar. For example if the user is viewing tweet 1 of 20 and a new tweet arrives the numbering changes to 2 of 21 so that it is evident to the user that a new tweet has arrived and can be viewed by moving to the left using the left arrow key. If the user changes the channel the video portion of the display is changed to a new TV program presented on the selected channel and the tweets in the bottom bar are replaced with tweets relevant to the new TV program. If the user presses the OK button more options will be shown for the Program Tweets selection.

For the Send Tweets menu options the bottom bar shows instructions on how to create a tweet using speech as depicted in . The instructions indicate that a user can press the TALK button on the remote controller to verbalize a tweet which can be sent once the OK button is depressed on the remote controller . The speech result can appear in the bottom bar moments after speaking into the remote so the user has the option of confirming the speech result before depressing the OK button to send the tweet reply. If the speech to text translation is inaccurate the user can restart the aforementioned process with the remote controller which overwrites the last result.

The Program Trends menu gives the user access to much more information that is generated by the Data Mining Module . For example the Summary option for Program Trends as shown in provides a chart showing the results of sentiment analysis negative neutral and positive a word cloud containing words that occur most frequently in tweets about the current TV program and a popularity chart that shows the number of tweets in the last week relating to the current TV program. The Top Tweets menu option can show tweets related to the current TV program that are retweeted most frequently. Recent tweets can refer to the same tweets that were shown in the top level Program Trends menu option. The Most Positive and Most Negative menu options can represent the most positive and negative tweets about the TV program determined by the sentiment analysis element of the Data Mining Module .

In step the Data Mining Module can perform sentiment analysis on each subset of micro blogs to determine favorable unfavorable and neutral micro blogs for each media program. The Data Mining Module can further determine in step trends via pattern recognition or other techniques for each subset of micro blogs. Trends can be used to rank media programs identify media programs that may be of high interest to a user identify top topics for each media program and identify media programs that are falling in popularity media programs that are rising in popularity and so on. In step the TV application page hosted by the Application Manager or the Application Web Server can operate from a STB and thereby detect a media program request responsive to a user s selection of a channel by way of the remote controller of . At step the Application Manager can request from the Data Mining Module a subset of the micro blogs that are relevant to the requested media program and supply this subset to the STB along with associated trend information.

In step the STB can be adapted to present a GUI concurrent with the selected media program which presents aspects of the received subset of micro blogs see . In an embodiment where profile data of a user was used by the Data Manager to detect relevant micro blogs for the selected media program the STB can be further adapted to customize guides such as the EPG or video on demand VoD guides according to the subset of micro blogs supplied by the Data Mining Module . The EPG can be customized for example with the most frequently tweeted media programs with suggestions for recording such programs and with links to the most popular tweets for each program. Similarly the VoD can be customized to present the most frequently discussed movies with links to associated popular tweets. Other suitable forms of customization are contemplated by the present disclosure. If customization is not desired by the user step can be skipped.

In step the STB can be adapted to receive tweets generated by the user of the STB upon for example depressing the talk button on the remote controller speaking the tweet and then depressing the OK button to submit the tweet. There may be other ways for the STB to receive the tweet such as by way of a wired or wireless microphone of the STB itself or from the Speech Mashup Portal or from a remote server in communication with the Speech Mashup Portal . The STB can also be adapted to receive tweets generated by a mobile device using the microphone on the mobile device for speech input. If a micro blog message request is detected the Application Manager can determine in step in coordination with the Data Manager which micro blog leader micro blogger would be associated with the micro blog tweet message generated by the user. Once such as determination is made the micro blog tweet message can be directed in step by the Application Manager or the Data Manager to the identified micro blogger by way of the social network. In another embodiment the micro blog tweet message can be directed to more than one social network.

If on the other hand a micro blog message request is not detected in step the Data Manager can determine whether new tweets have arrived. If there are new tweets steps through can be performed and the Application Manager by way of the STB or the Application Web Server operating therein can be notified of these updates which the STB can then present in the GUI of .

In step updates to the micro blogs can be directed by the social network to the Data Manager autonomously or responsive to the Data Manager polling the social network for updates. When micro blog updates are received portions of method as described above can be applied to these updates so that the STB can be supplied an updated subset of micro blogs.

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that said embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope and spirit of the claims described below. For example method can be adapted for any type of media program e.g. TV shows eBooks on line radio on demand video rentals etc. . Media programs are thus contemplated broadly to mean any form of consumable content. Method can be adapted for portable devices such as smart phones cellular phones tablets laptops and so on. Method can also be adapted to any form of blogging information not just micro blog messages such as Twitter messages. For example method can be applied to blogging information from social networks such as Facebook . Method can also be adapted so that text messages can also be generated at the STB as micro blog messages generated with the assistance of a remote controller or a mobile device having a QWERTY keyboard or other suitable means. Additionally method can be adapted for landline devices such as those described in . Portions of method can be integrated in a single device such as the STB without requiring assistance from network elements of communication systems . Other embodiments are contemplated by the present disclosure.

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the present disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display. The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs running on a computer processor. Furthermore software implementations can include but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the present disclosure.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Zigbee and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE are contemplated for use by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

