---

title: Vehicle, vehicle system and method for increasing safety and/or comfort during autonomous driving
abstract: A vehicle, vehicle system and method for increasing at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving is provided. The vehicle system includes an autonomous drive arrangement with multiple sensors, and a vehicle control arrangement. The vehicle system is configured to determine an estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable, or an estimated time/distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable. The vehicle system is further configured to activate at least one countermeasure based on at least one of the estimated probability, the estimated time and the estimated distance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09469307&OS=09469307&RS=09469307
owner: Volvo Car Corporation
number: 09469307
owner_city: Gothenburg
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20150311
---
This application claims foreign priority benefits under 35 U.S.C. 119 a d to European Patent Application No. EP 14160567.5 filed Mar. 18 2014 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments herein relate to a vehicle system arranged to increase safety and or comfort during autonomous driving. Embodiments herein further relate to a vehicle comprising a vehicle system arranged to increase safety and or comfort during autonomous driving and to a method for increasing safety and or comfort during autonomous driving.

Some modern vehicles are equipped with one or more systems which allow the vehicle to be arranged into a semi autonomous and or autonomous drive mode. Such systems may include predictive safety systems adaptive cruise control systems lane departure warning systems navigation systems communication systems and or automatic brake control systems. Some of the systems may monitor the vehicle surroundings in order to control a host vehicle position relative a road on which the host vehicle drives and may further determine positions and or velocities of surrounding objects such as other vehicles pedestrians and various obstacles. Such systems may calculate whether a collision between the host vehicle and other vehicles or objects is imminent and may in such case calculate an alternative route and or warn a driver of the host vehicle.

In order to collect information regarding the host vehicle surrounding the host vehicle is generally equipped with various sensors that monitor the host vehicle surrounding. Such sensors may include one or more cameras radar units and or lidar units.

In addition to the sensors a communication system in the host vehicle may be arranged to communicate with one or more external communication arrangements such as remote servers clouds other vehicles and or roadside units. The host vehicle may receive information on e.g. available routes obstacles and traffic information via the communication arrangement.

In order to provide autonomous drive functions the host vehicle or systems thereof depends on the information received through the sensors and or the communication arrangement. If one or more of the sensors become unavailable or if the communication between the host vehicle and external communication arrangements is interrupted some or all autonomous drive functions may be disabled. A driver may then need to operate the vehicle or some vehicle functions manually.

If a sensor or communication link becomes unavailable the autonomous vehicle may be configured to stop. In some cases the driver may have to operate the vehicle manually with short notice. Both unplanned stops of the autonomous vehicle and a short preparation time for manual driving may be annoying and or stressful for the driver.

Embodiments herein aim to provide a vehicle system arranged to increase at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving of a host vehicle eliminating or at least reducing the problems and or drawbacks associated with prior art systems.

According to an embodiment this is provided by a vehicle system arranged to increase at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving of a host vehicle the vehicle system comprising an autonomous drive arrangement that comprises a plurality of sensors arranged to monitor at least one of a vehicle surrounding and a vehicle communication system status a processing unit and a control arrangement arranged to control steering and velocity of the host vehicle based on information received from the sensors wherein the vehicle system is arranged to determine by the processing unit at least one of an estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable and an estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable. The determination is based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle or host vehicle surrounding condition. The vehicle system is further arranged to activate by the autonomous drive arrangement at least one first countermeasure based on at least one of the estimated probability the estimated time and the estimated distance.

Since the vehicle system is arranged to determine at least one of the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable the estimated time and or the estimated distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable and further is arranged to activate at least one first countermeasure based on at least one of the estimated probability the estimated time and the estimated distance both safety and comfort are increased.

A sensor may be considered to be unavailable if the performance of the sensor is below a threshold level. When the sensor performance is below the threshold level input from the sensor may not be robust and or accurate to such an extent that the sensor input may be used for the autonomous drive functions.

The vehicle system may be configured to very quickly determine upcoming sensor unavailability. If for example an oncoming vehicle drives in a puddle water may splash up against the host vehicle. Sensors in on the host vehicle may then be blocked by the water. When the sensors detect that water splash is approaching the host vehicle the vehicle system may determine that one or more of the sensors will become unavailable for a short while e.g. until the water has at least partly disappeared from the one or more sensors. If the oncoming vehicle drives near an intended expected host vehicle travelling trajectory and there are puddles on the road between the oncoming vehicle and the host vehicle the vehicle system may estimate the probability that one or more sensors become unavailable to be high such as 50 100 . Similarly if puddles on the road are large or if the road comprises many puddles the vehicle system may determine that it is likely that one or more sensors will become unavailable.

The vehicle system may further determine the estimated distance until at least one sensor will become unavailable. If one or more sensor detects a large puddle 50 meters ahead of the host vehicle it may determine that the estimated probability for sensor unavailability e.g. 50 60 meters ahead is high.

The vehicle system may further determine the estimated time until at least one sensor will become unavailable. If one or more sensor detects a large puddle 50 meters ahead of the host vehicle it may determine that the estimated probability for sensor unavailability e.g. 50 60 meters ahead is high. The host vehicle system may further receive information of the host vehicle velocity e.g. via a sensor or via communication with other vehicle systems. If the vehicle system comprise information e.g. on a current host vehicle velocity of 25 m s it may determine that it is likely that sensor unavailability may occur in approximately 2 seconds.

If the vehicle system determines that it is probable that a sensor soon will become unavailable one or more functional countermeasures are activated. Hereby a vehicle operator will not be forced to take control of the vehicle due to sensor unavailability which may imply disablement of some or all autonomous drive functions.

For example if the vehicle system determines that it is probable that a sensor soon will become unavailable due to water splash from surrounding vehicles the vehicle system may instead rely on sensor information from sensors which is less likely to be affected from the water splash. Alternatively or in addition the driver may be alerted that he she possibly needs to operate the host vehicle manually during the time the one or more sensors are unavailable.

Thus due to the determination of upcoming sensor unavailability the vehicle operator may be alerted before the control arrangement is affected of the reduced sensor input such that he she may control some or all drive functions manually or other sensors may compensate for the unavailable sensor. In addition other drive and or safety systems may be activated as a countermeasure to the determined sensor unavailability.

Thus hereby is provided a vehicle system which is arranged to increase at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving eliminating or at least reducing the problems and or drawbacks associated with prior art solutions.

According to some embodiments a sensor is determined to be unavailable if a sensor performance level is below a threshold sensor performance level and in that at least one first countermeasure is activated only if the sensor is determined to be unavailable for a duration of time that exceeds a threshold duration of time.

Since the sensor is determined to be unavailable if a sensor performance level is below a threshold sensor performance level and since at least one first countermeasure is activated only if the sensor is determined to be unavailable for a duration of time that exceeds a threshold duration of time the vehicle system is arranged to provide autonomous drive functions for shorter periods of sensor unavailability.

A threshold duration of time may be dependent on factors such as the vehicle speed road type traffic intensity around the host vehicle etc. During the sensor unavailability the control arrangement may be arranged to control steering and velocity of the host vehicle based on dead reckoning i.e. by sensor data gathered just before the sensor unavailability. In some cases some sensor data may be used also when the sensor performance is degraded.

In the example given above where some sensors were determined to became unavailable due to water splash from a puddle the processing unit may determine that sensor unavailability will occur for 1 5 seconds. If a threshold duration of time is e.g. 3 seconds the countermeasure s will not be activated. If the threshold duration of time is e.g. 1 second at least one countermeasure will be activated.

According to some embodiments the autonomous drive arrangement is arranged to activate at least one second countermeasure based on at least one of the estimated probability the estimated time and the estimated distance.

Since the autonomous drive arrangement is arranged to activate at least two different countermeasures safety and comfort may be enhanced. For example a safety distance to surrounding vehicles may be increased and the vehicle operator may be alerted of an increased possibility that he she may need to operate the host vehicle manually soon.

According to some embodiments the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle surrounding condition in form of sunlight negatively affecting a vehicle camera sensor.

Since at least one countermeasure is activated when it is determined that sun light will negatively affect a vehicle camera sensor the countermeasure is activated before sunshine hits e.g. a camera lens and saturate the camera sensor. Due to this activation the vehicle operator may be alerted in advance in situations when it is likely that a sensor functionality will decrease because of sunlight.

According to some embodiments the vehicle system is arranged to activate by the autonomous drive arrangement at least one first countermeasure if the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable exceeds a threshold probability or if the estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable is below a threshold level.

Since the vehicle system is arranged to activate at least one first countermeasure if the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable exceeds a threshold probability or if the estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable is below a threshold level the vehicle system is capable to deal with several possible scenarios. If it is determined that the probability for sensor unavailability exceeds a predetermined threshold value a countermeasure is activated. The threshold probability may be a calculated value above which the likelihood for possible dangerous scenarios is increased. The threshold probability may be input into the vehicle system in advance.

Alternatively or in addition to the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable one or more countermeasures may be activated if the estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable is below a threshold level. As mentioned above when a sensor is determined to become unavailable also the time and or distance is calculated for when where the sensor temporarily will terminate to function properly. If the amount of time distance until the determined sensor unavailability is less than a threshold limit at least one countermeasure is activated. The threshold limit may be indicative of a number of milliseconds seconds or meters.

According to some embodiments the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle surrounding condition in form of a weather condition negatively affecting at least one of a camera sensor a radar sensor and a lidar sensor.

Since the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a weather condition negatively affecting at least one of a camera sensor a radar sensor and a lidar sensor a countermeasure can be activated e.g. when heavy rain snow or fog is expected to decrease a sensor capacity. For example humidity may affect a camera sensor snow may affect a radar sensor and ice crystals in the air may affect a lidar sensor.

According to some embodiments the vehicle system further comprises a communication system arranged for communication between the host vehicle and external communication arrangements and that the host vehicle is arranged to receive data relating to host vehicle surrounding conditions from the external communication arrangements.

Since the host vehicle is arranged to receive data relating to host vehicle surrounding conditions from external communication arrangements systems and or persons in the host vehicle may be informed of upcoming situations wherein sensor capacity may be limited. The situations may be related to map information road geometry inclination sloping and or obstacles such as buildings crests and trees in the vicinity of the road. The host vehicle surrounding conditions received by the host vehicle may also relate to e.g. a sun position possibly expressed as a mathematical formula. External communication arrangements may be communication arrangements in other vehicles roadside units or other roadside infrastructure with communication capacity remote servers the cloud .

According to some embodiments the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a by at least one of the sensors detected decreased communication capacity between the host vehicle and at least one external communication arrangement.

Since the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a detected decreased communication capacity between the host vehicle and at least one external communication arrangement the vehicle system may e.g. alert a vehicle operator of the decreased communication capacity. For example if a GPS signal is blocked when the host vehicle enters a tunnel some autonomous drive functions may be disabled. The vehicle system may then indicate to the vehicle operator that he she needs to operate the vehicle manually through the tunnel.

According to some embodiments the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a host vehicle surrounding condition information indicative of a communication capacity in a predefined geographical area.

Since the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a host vehicle surrounding condition information indicative of a communication capacity in a predefined geographical area the vehicle system may e.g. alert a vehicle operator. For example if a communication capacity in an upcoming area is reduced some autonomous drive functions may be disabled. The vehicle system may then indicate to the vehicle operator that he she needs to operate the vehicle manually through that area. The communication capacity may be detected by a sensor or sent to the host vehicle. The information may relate to any kind of communication capacity such as radio signals electrical signals and or electromagnetic wave signals. A communication capacity may decrease e.g. due to package loss and or decreased signal strength. The decreased communication capacity in the geographical area may relate to e.g. the terrain the distance to external communication arrangements and or the number of vehicles in the area.

According to some embodiments the vehicle system is arranged to activate one or more countermeasure selected from the group of a host vehicle operator alert indicative of an upcoming reduced autonomous driving capacity a disablement of one or more autonomous drive functions an increase safety distance to at least one object in the vehicle surrounding a change of vehicle velocity activation of dead reckoning and a stop of the vehicle.

Since the vehicle system is arranged to activate one or more countermeasure selected from the group of a host vehicle operator alert indicative of an upcoming reduced autonomous driving capacity a disablement of one or more autonomous drive functions an increase safety distance to at least one object in the vehicle surrounding a change of vehicle velocity activation of dead reckoning and a stop of the vehicle both safety and comfort are enhanced.

The at least one first countermeasure may be selected based on factors such as the vehicle speed road type traffic intensity around the host vehicle etc. If sensor unavailability is determined to occur within a relatively short time or distance a vehicle operator may be alerted. In a traffic situation with other vehicles near the host vehicle a first countermeasure may be to increase a safety distance to one or more of the surrounding vehicles. A first countermeasure may also be to increase a safety distance to other objects in the vehicle surrounding such as road users pedestrians etc. The at least one first countermeasure may also be selected based on the type of sensor which is determined to become unavailable.

Thus hereby is provided a vehicle system eliminating or at least reducing the problems and or drawbacks associated with prior art systems.

Embodiments herein also aim to provide a vehicle comprising a vehicle system arranged to increase at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving of a host vehicle without the problems or drawbacks described above.

According to some embodiments this is provided by a vehicle wherein the vehicle comprises a vehicle system according to embodiments herein.

Thus hereby is provided a vehicle eliminating or at least reducing the problems and or drawbacks associated with prior art vehicles.

Embodiments herein also aim to provide a method for increasing at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving of a host vehicle without the problems or drawbacks described above.

According to some embodiments this is provided by a method for increasing at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving of a host vehicle where the host vehicle comprises a vehicle system comprising 

an autonomous drive arrangement which comprises a plurality of sensors arranged to monitor at least one of a vehicle surrounding and a vehicle communication system status 

control arrangement arranged to control steering and velocity of the host vehicle based on information received from the sensors

determining by the processing unit at least one of the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable and the estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable the determination being based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle or host vehicle surrounding condition 

activating by the autonomous drive arrangement at least one first countermeasure based on at least one of the estimated probability the estimated time and the estimated distance.

Since at least one first countermeasure is activated based on a determined sensor unavailability both safety and comfort during the autonomous driving of the host vehicle is achieved.

Thus hereby is provided a method for increasing at least one of safety and comfort during autonomous driving of a host vehicle eliminating or at least reducing the problems and or drawbacks associated with prior art methods.

Further features of and advantages with the embodiments herein will become apparent when studying the appended claims and the following detailed description. Those skilled in the art will realize that different features of the embodiments herein may be combined to create embodiments other than those described in the following without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

As required detailed embodiments are disclosed herein. However it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary and embodiments may take various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale. Some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure.

Embodiments herein will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. However this application should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Disclosed features of example embodiments may be combined as readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this application belongs. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Well known functions or constructions will not necessarily be described in detail for brevity and or clarity.

The host vehicle comprises a vehicle system which is arranged to increase safety and or comfort during autonomous driving of the host vehicle . The vehicle system comprises an autonomous drive arrangement and a positioning system .

The autonomous drive arrangement comprises a plurality of sensors arranged to monitor a vehicle surrounding. The sensors may be one or more camera sensors one or more radar sensors and or one or more lidar sensors . As illustrated in sensors may be arranged at any position in on the host vehicle from where detection of an interior or exterior condition is possible. Sensors may for example be arranged at a vehicle front side and or rear portion at a vehicle grille bumpers rear view mirrors and or a windshield. Some sensors may be arranged in or near a vehicle compartment chassis motor drivetrain and or wheels. The sensor position may depend on the type of sensor. For example a camera sensor and or a lidar sensor may be arranged at the inside of the windshield while one or more radar sensors may be arranged in the grille and or bumpers.

A camera sensor may be e.g. a front or rear facing digital camera equipped with or connected to one or more processors with object recognition logics. Hereby surrounding objects such as road lanes other vehicles traffic signs pedestrians animals different obstacles etc. may be detected and in some cases identified classified. Radar sensors may include transmitters that emit signals that bounces back from object around the host vehicle and receivers that receive the returned signals. The radar sensors may include e.g. ultra wide band radars narrow band radars and or multi node radars. Lidar sensors may measure distances to objects by illuminating the objects with a laser and analyzing the reflected light. Other types of sensors used to monitor the vehicle surrounding may be e.g. ultrasonic sensors and or infrared sensors.

Some sensors may be arranged to detect a vehicle communication system status. Such sensors may determine signal strength accessibility for signals between a communication system in the host vehicle and external communication arrangements. If a signal gets weaker such that the communication decreases or fails the sensors may provide the autonomous drive arrangement with information hereof. A communication system status may decrease e.g. due to package loss and or an decreased signal strength. The signals may relate e.g. to mobile or mobile data signals such as GSM 3G 4G LTE 5G or any satellite and or global positioning system signals such as GPS Galileo GLONASS .

As illustrated in the autonomous drive arrangement comprises at least one processing unit . According to some embodiments the processing unit is connected to one or more memory units configurable to store sensor data. In some embodiments the one or more processing units are used for processing in several different vehicle systems. Some processing units may be dedicated to a specific processing task. In some embodiments the host vehicle and or the vehicle system may comprise a large number of processing units . The one or more processing units may be central processing units CPUs also referred to as central processor units that carries out instructions of computer programs software which when executed perform basic arithmetical logical and input output operations. The vehicle system may also comprise an accelerated processing unit APU also referred to as an advanced processing unit. An APU is a processing unit that includes additional processing capability designed to accelerate one or more types of computations outside of the CPU. One or more processing units may comprise application programming interfaces APIs which specify how software components may interact with each other.

In embodiments where the one or more processing units comprise and or are connected to one or more memory units the one or more memory units may be arranged in the host vehicle and or outside of the host vehicle . In some embodiments the one or more processing units may save information to the so called cloud e.g. memory units arranged in remote servers.

The autonomous drive arrangement further comprises an electrical mechanical control arrangement arranged to control steering and velocity of the host vehicle based on information received from the sensors . The control arrangement is connected to a vehicle steering system such that the control arrangement directly or indirectly may control a direction of at least some of the wheels of the host vehicle . Hereby e.g. a yaw rate of the host vehicle may be adjusted such that the driving direction of the host vehicle is adjusted in accordance with the input from the control arrangement . The control arrangement is also connected to a vehicle engine and a vehicle braking system such that the control arrangement directly or indirectly may control acceleration and or deceleration of the host vehicle . The control arrangement may e.g. increase a vehicle velocity by increasing the engine speed and decrease the vehicle velocity by motor braking or by activation of one or more wheel brakes. The control arrangement may e.g. be connected to an ABS anti lock braking system such that one or more wheel brakes may be activated selectively.

According to some embodiments the vehicle system further comprises a positioning system arranged to determine a host vehicle position and driving direction heading. The positioning system may determine the host vehicle position and driving direction e.g. via a satellite based global positioning system and or matching relatively a map. A compass may be used for determination of a vehicle direction. The positioning system may comprise or be connected to a navigation system.

The processing unit is arranged to determine an estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable and or an estimated time to or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable. The probability that at least one of the sensors will become unavailable within a certain time amount or within a certain distance ahead of the host vehicle is based on a host vehicle or host vehicle surrounding condition detected by one or more sensors . The vehicle system is further arranged to activate by the autonomous drive arrangement at least one first countermeasure based on the estimated probability and or the estimated time and or the estimated distance.

According to some embodiments the processing unit is arranged to determine a duration of time for which the at least one sensor is unavailable. The duration of time may depend e.g. on host vehicle surrounding conditions host vehicle velocity traffic intensity. According to some embodiments the threshold duration of time may be one or a few seconds such as 1 15 s. According to some embodiments the threshold duration of time may be about 3 s.

The information detected via the sensors is used as input to the host vehicle control arrangement. The control arrangement may be configured to control the steering and velocity of the host vehicle in a manner that an attentive and experienced driver would have done in a similar situation i.e. to follow a traffic rhythm and avoid potentially dangerous situations. For example if sensors detect that a distance to a slower driving vehicle ahead of the host vehicle decreases below a predefined safety distance or with a closing velocity above a threshold velocity the vehicle system may be configured to apply the brakes of the host vehicle . If a distance to surrounding vehicles becomes too small the host vehicle may adjust its lateral position such that the distance is increased. The vehicle system may be configured to increase the safety margins to other vehicles more in higher speeds and may adjust brake forces and yaw rates e.g. in accordance with detected ice or other slippery surfaces on the road .

The vehicle system is dependent on robust sensor information in order to provide autonomous driving functionality. If one or more sensors becomes defect blocked or in any other way unavailable to detect the host vehicle surroundings and or a vehicle communication system status the host vehicle operator may have to take control over the vehicle until the sensor or sensors functions properly again. In order to avoid that the vehicle operator will have to take control of the host vehicle if one or more sensors become unavailable the processing unit is arranged to determine the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable and or the estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable. The probability that at least one of the sensors will become unavailable within a certain amount of time or within a certain distance ahead of the host vehicle is based on a detected host vehicle or host vehicle surrounding condition detected by one or more sensors. The vehicle system is further arranged to activate at least one first countermeasure based on the estimated probability and or the estimated time and or the estimated distance.

In the host vehicle is illustrated in a road environment. The host vehicle is depicted when driving on a road provided with road markings . Ahead of the host vehicle a surrounding vehicle is illustrated.

The host vehicle comprises the vehicle system which allows the host vehicle to drive autonomously. The host vehicle may therefore be referred to as an autonomous vehicle in which many or all of vehicle operator tasks such as steering accelerating and braking are performed automatically by the vehicle system . The vehicle operator may instead focus on secondary tasks such as reading socializing or browsing the internet instead of the otherwise primary task of driving the vehicle. The vehicle system may be connected to and or comprise a number of co operating subsystems such as adaptive cruise control systems lane departure control systems collision avoidance system traffic sign recognition systems communication systems navigation systems ultrasonic sensor systems infrared camera systems inertial measuring systems intelligent transportation systems safe road train systems automatic parking systems etc.

According to some embodiments the activation of at least one countermeasure is based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle surrounding condition in form of sun light negatively affecting a vehicle camera sensor . This scenario is depicted in . When the host vehicle autonomously drives in a direction where a longitudinal direction of the host vehicle or a monitoring field direction of the camera sensor is larger than a predetermined angle relative to the sun the camera sensor is determined to be available. When the host vehicle continues along the road in the angle relative to the sun will decrease. When the longitudinal direction of the host vehicle or the monitoring field direction of the camera sensor is equal or less than the predetermined angle to the sun the risk that the sun shines straight into the lens of the camera sensor is high. The lens may become saturated whereby the sensor may fail to provide sensor information on the host vehicle surrounding to the control arrangement . If the sensor fails to provide sensor information on the host vehicle surrounding to the control arrangement the sensor is determined to be unavailable. The vehicle system may use information on an upcoming road direction a selected route and or historical data for the determination of the time and or distance until the sensor is determined to become unavailable.

Since expected upcoming sensor unavailability is determined before the sensor actually becomes unavailable one or more countermeasures to the determined sensor unavailability may be activated. In the illustration where the host vehicle driving direction approaches the sun such a determination may be based on factors such as the luminous intensity of the sun and the vertical and or horizontal distance between the host vehicle driving direction and the position of the sun. The relationship may be expressed e.g. as a mathematical formula. Upcoming curves and crests clouds houses trees particles in the atmosphere etc. may be taken into account for the determination. The determination may also be based on the present time of the day the geographical position of the host vehicle etc. For example a sensor may be determined to be unavailable if a probability that the sensor will stop to function properly is higher than a pre defined probability According to some embodiments such probability may be between 50 99 such as 60 70 80 or 90 .

According to some embodiments the determination of whether a sensor will be unavailable or not is based entirely on sensor data. The determination may then be performed without any previously saved information.

The vehicle system may be arranged to activate by the autonomous drive arrangement at least one first countermeasure if the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable exceeds a threshold probability or if the estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable is below a threshold level. Different threshold levels may be selected e.g. depending on which level of safety that is required and if information from available sensors may compensate for the determined sensor unavailability.

As mentioned above several types of sensors may be used to monitor the host vehicle surroundings. According to some embodiments the activation of at least one countermeasure may be based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle surrounding condition in form of a weather condition negatively affecting at least one of a camera sensor a radar sensor and a lidar sensor.

In some situations a sensor may be unavailable due to obstacles near the road . In the vehicle system may determine that e.g. a camera sensor will be at least temporarily unavailable if e.g. a building blocks a part of or the entire monitoring field . A sensor may also be determined to be unavailable due to a curve or a crest. A radar sensor may not be able to detect relevant areas of the host vehicle surrounding if its field of view is blocked by obstacles. Radar sensors may also be blocked e.g. due to rain snow and water spray from surrounding vehicles. During certain temperature and or humidity conditions moisture on the inside of the windshield may be predicted in advance e.g. from communicated weather forecasts. A sensor may be determined to be unavailable during such conditions.

In the host vehicle is illustrated on a road in a road network . In this illustrated embodiment the host vehicle is about to autonomously drive from point A to point B. According to some embodiments the vehicle system comprises a communication system arranged for communication between the host vehicle and external communication arrangements. The host vehicle may then be arranged to receive data relating to host vehicle surrounding conditions from the external communication arrangements. According to some embodiments the vehicle system further comprises a navigation system arranged to provide the autonomous drive arrangement with information on the available routes of the road network surrounding the host vehicle and to allow a vehicle operator to input a preferred route. The navigation system may be connected to the abovementioned positioning system .

Examples of host vehicle surrounding conditions which may negatively affect a sensor are given in the following. Diffuse lane markers may negatively affect a camera sensor. A tunnel may negatively affect a GPS signal sensor. The sun may negatively affect a camera sensor. In a predefined or delimited geographical area a communication capacity may be insufficient which may negatively affect a signal between the host vehicle and external communication arrangements such as servers roadside units surrounding vehicles and or intelligent traffic systems.

Thus according to some embodiments the activation of at least one countermeasure may be based on host vehicle surrounding condition information indicative of a communication capacity in the predefined geographical area . Hence a countermeasure may be activated e.g. if a data signal or positioning signal becomes weaker. This may be the case e.g. if the host vehicle is far from a telecommunication mast or if a signal is blocked e.g. by the illustrated mountain .

As mentioned above one or more countermeasures may be activated when a sensor is determined to become unavailable. For example two three four or five different countermeasures may be activated. The one or more countermeasures may include activation of a host vehicle operator alert indicative of an upcoming reduced autonomous driving capacity disablement of one or more autonomous drive functions.

A countermeasure may also be an increase safety distance between the host vehicle and at least one object in the host vehicle surrounding a change of vehicle velocity stopping the vehicle or initiating a lateral displacement. A countermeasure may also be dead reckoning. Dead reckoning is a process for estimating a value e.g. indicative of a velocity and or a position based on earlier values together with occurring changes. If a sensor becomes unavailable dead reckoning may be used to continue to control the vehicle along a path determined when sensors were available. Hence historically gathered data may be used for shorter periods of time until sensor information is available again.

The method comprises the step of determining by the processing unit at least one of the estimated probability that at least one sensor will become unavailable and the estimated time or distance ahead until at least one sensor is determined to become unavailable. The determination is based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle or host vehicle surrounding condition. The method further comprises the step of activating by the autonomous drive arrangement at least one first countermeasure based on at least one of the estimated probability the estimated time and the estimated distance.

If the determination of sensor unavailability is based on a by at least one of the sensors detected host vehicle surrounding condition the time distance may be small. For example if water splash from a surrounding vehicle is detected the time until the sensor is determined to be unavailable may be e.g. a few milliseconds or a few seconds. If a sunset ahead is detected the time until the sensor is determined to be unavailable may be e.g. a few seconds or a few minutes.

Although aspects have been described with reference to example embodiments many different alterations modifications and the like will become apparent for those skilled in the art. Therefore it is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of various example embodiments and the scope of the appended claims is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments combinations of features of disclosed embodiments as well as other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

As used herein the term comprising or comprises is open ended and includes one or more stated features elements steps components or functions but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features elements steps components functions or groups thereof.

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms of the disclosure. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Additionally the features of various implementing embodiments may be combined to form further embodiments.

