---

title: Integrated field emission array for ion desorption
abstract: An integrated field emission array for ion desorption includes an electrically conductive substrate; a dielectric layer lying over the electrically conductive substrate comprising a plurality of laterally separated cavities extending through the dielectric layer; a like plurality of conically-shaped emitter tips on posts, each emitter tip/post disposed concentrically within a laterally separated cavity and electrically contacting the substrate; and a gate electrode structure lying over the dielectric layer, including a like plurality of circular gate apertures, each gate aperture disposed concentrically above an emitter tip/post to provide a like plurality of annular gate electrodes and wherein the lower edge of each annular gate electrode proximate the like emitter tip/post is rounded. Also disclosed herein are methods for fabricating an integrated field emission array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09425019&OS=09425019&RS=09425019
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09425019
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150306
---
This application is a Divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 028 294 entitled INTEGRATED FIELD EMISSION ARRAY FOR ION DESORPTION and filed on Sep. 16 2013 which is a Divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 246 985 entitled INTEGRATED FIELD EMISSION ARRAY FOR ION DESORPTION and filed on Sep. 28 2011. Both said applications are incorporated herein by reference in entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to field emission arrays and in particular to an integrated field emission array for ion desorption and methods to fabricate the array.

Field emission arrays FEA for ion desorption present unique challenges for microfabrication. Unlike arrays that are used for field emission of electrons devices that are designed for ion emission desirably support the high voltages needed to achieve electrostatic field desorption. See C. A. Spindt et al. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 38 10 2355 1991 . The onset of field ionization occurs when the field at the tip reaches about 10 V nm which is about 10 times greater than the field required for electron emission. Ion desorption occurs at fields of about 20 V nm. See D. L. Chichester et al. NIM B 261 pp. 835 838 2007 . To achieve these high fields even with ultra sharp tips applied voltages greater than 1 kV are typically used. To prevent high voltage breakdown a thick dielectric film between the gate and substrate may be used which is somewhat incongruous with microfabrication processes. Finally intense electric fields at the gate can initiate electron emission which often results in catastrophic failure.

The present invention is embodied in an integrated field emission array for ion desorption. Field emission arrays that are used for ion desorption typically operate at high applied voltages. The large electric fields can lead to dielectric breakdown or electron emission from the gate both of which may result in catastrophic failure. To create a high electric field at the tip while suppressing electron emission from the gate the ratio of gate radius to tip radius is maximized to the extent that fabrication methods allow. The ratio of the field at the tip to the field at the gate is increased by using a gate having a larger radius at its lower edge. In particular sharp corners at the gate electrode are eliminated to minimize electric field concentrators. A damascene gate integrated into the device structure provides a method to minimize field concentrators associated with sharp corners at the gate. Such processing is compatible with tips that are either etched out of silicon or deposited through a sacrificial mask.

The methods of the present invention enable fabrication of tip arrays with integrated gate electrodes separated from the substrate with sufficient dielectric strength to sustain high voltages. In particular technologies that have been developed for microelectromechanical systems MEMS have been applied to the fabrication of field desorption arrays. These techniques include the use of thick films for enhanced dielectric stand off as well as an integrated gate electrode. The increased complexity of MEMS fabrication enables enhanced design flexibility over traditional methods.

As an example of the present invention tips are etched from p type degenerately doped silicon with a sacrificial oxide ring around each tip on post structure. After tip formation the surrounding silicon honeycomb is etched out using a DRIE process. The resulting trench is filled with silicon nitride to create a thick dielectric between the gate and substrate. To minimize field compression at the gate a rounded lower corner is incorporated into the electrode which is coated with a thin silicon nitride film. The support structure in which the gate is embedded is silicon nitride fabricated with a deep trench process. Finally the silicon tip is coated with a thin conformal selective tungsten coating.

These methods have been combined to fabricate field emission arrays for deuterium ion desorption. This device requires high electric fields at the tip and therefore is desirably capable of sustaining high applied voltages 1 kV . These arrays have sustained applied voltages greater than 1 kV and produced significant deuteron currents 10 nA through field ionization.

Field emission arrays FEAs have traditionally been fabricated using relatively simple thin film methods. See C. A Spindt J. Appl. Phvs. 39 7 3504 1968 and C. A. Spindt et al. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 38 10 2355 1991 . The elegance of this approach is undeniable but it may not be suitable for high voltage field ionization or desorption sources. High voltage devices use a thick dielectric between the gate and substrate which can be difficult to accommodate with thin film methods. In reverse bias operation for field desorption or ionization it is desirable to suppress electron emission from the gate and which may cause special consideration to be given to the shape and position of the gate.

Therefore a need remains for ion desorption sources that can be fabricated using surface micromachining and related technologies. The additional complexity enabled by these methods allows for fabrication of arrays that can sustain high voltage and produce the high fields necessary for field ionization or ion desorption.

Finite element analysis can be used to evaluate the electric field with various gate and tip geometries. The gate electrode diameter and the spacing from the tip to the gate can be studied as well as the radius of the lower gate edge. shows simulations of the electric field as a function of gate geometry. shows a cone shaped emitter tip below a gate electrode with a lower corner radius of 100 nm on top of a dielectric . For these simulations a large radius was chosen to simplify meshing as well as providing a conservative scenario. The maximum field occurs at the triple point where metal dielectric and vacuum surfaces meet and significant field compression was also noted at the lower corner of the dielectric which may be undesirable. By comparison shows a similar tip geometry with a rounded lower edge of the gate where the radius of the gate is greater than the radius of the emitter tip . For this case there is no significant field compression at the gate and the maximum field occurs at the emitter tip where it is desired. These simulations assume a 100 nm tip radius which is considerably larger than the many tip radii of exemplary tips according the present invention. However for the purpose of evaluating the gate geometry these values provide for an illustrative simulation.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention relates to a number of aspects of array fabrication for ion desorption sources including thick dielectric between the gate and substrate silicon tip development and gate electrode geometry.

Thick Dielectric High voltage applications typically employ a thick dielectric between the gate electrode and substrate. However the thickness of the dielectric cannot be increased arbitrarily in thin film approaches thick films may impact subsequent processes e.g. tip deposition . Additionally the added stress caused by the thick films may render the substrates too bowed for further processing. To provide a thick dielectric stand off without depositing an extremely thick film a trench fill process can be used with the present invention. A trench can be first etched into the substrate using deep reactive ion etching DRIE and subsequently filled with dielectric. DRIE is relatively easy to accomplish with modest aspect ratios. Conformal low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD can be used to fill the trench with the dielectric. These steps can be repeated possibly using different materials to create a thick dielectric structure. This structure may also be somewhat immune to the consequences of film stress as the majority of stress relief occurs normal to the substrate surface.

Silicon Tip Formation Methods for fabricating silicon tips that rely on isotropic etching have been well documented and can be implemented in a MEMS enabled process. See P. Neuzil and R. Nagarajan J. Micromech. Microeng. 16 1298 2006 . By incorporating a trench that is filled with a sacrificial dielectric film to isolate a tip post structure the isotropic tip etch can be confined to the post thereby eliminating attack of the surrounding material. Very sharp tips can be fabricated using a single etch process but sharpening of tips can also be performed by oxidation or dry isotropic etching. A thin tungsten coating can be applied conformally to the tip post using selective CVD tungsten deposition. A similar thin tungsten film which is highly conformal and self limiting in thickness has been used in MEMS devices to suppress tribological wear. See S. S. Mani et al. Mat. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 605 135 2000 .

Gate Electrode Geometry To suppress electron emission from the gate during reverse bias operation at high potential rounded gates can be fabricated using a tungsten damascene process. In this method a trench is etched into a sacrificial film filled with a structural material and then polished back to the sacrificial material. A thin conformal dielectric coating can be added to the gate to further suppress electron emission. Because a separate mask level is used to define the gate the lateral distance from the tip can be defined by lithography the vertical distance can be determined by the etch depth into the sacrificial film.

A damascene process designed to yield a rounded lower edge has been developed and integrated into tip array fabrication techniques. Tungsten damascene processes have been previously used to fabricate devices such as ion traps and three dimensional photonic crystals. See D. Cruz et al. Rev. Sci. Instrum. 78 015107 2007 1 9 and J. G. Fleming et al. Nature 417 52 2002 . However these devices typically do not require smooth rounded sidewalls for proper operation. Indeed vertical sidewalls with sharp corners are often desirable for these applications. But the shape of the gate electrode can be tailored to create rounded lower corners by selecting the proper etch chemistry.

As shown in sharp tips are etched out of the silicon posts using an isotropic SF6 Ar dry etch under the patterned photoresist mask . See P. Neuzil and R. Nagarajan J. Micromech. Microenq. 16 1298 2006 . The oxide filled isolation trenches confine the isotropic etch to the silicon posts and protect the field regions from attack. By confining the isotropic etch in this manner emitter tip fabrication on top of an arbitrarily tall post is possible.

As shown in the photoresist is then removed and an overburden of oxide is deposited and planarized using CMP. The final oxide thickness after CMP determines the gap between the gate electrode and the emitter tip . To form a support structure for the gate electrode structure a combination oxide silicon etch is used to remove the silicon between the filled isolation trenches followed by blanket deposition of low stress Si rich silicon nitride into the resulting trenches and as a top layer on the planarized oxide . The silicon nitride filled trenches have inner walls that are concentric with the silicon posts .

As shown in the silicon nitride top layer can be patterned by dry etching to provide an etch mask having openings between the laterally separated emitter tip posts leaving a circular cap above each tip and post . The rounded gate structure can then be formed by a liquid phase hydrofluoric HF acid etch into the oxide below. The extent of the undercut is determined by the etch time for these short undercut distances a linear etch rate can be assumed. The HF chemistry etches nearly isotropically into the oxide thereby providing a rounded edge in the mold below the circular cap .

As shown in to further suppress electron emission from the gate a silicon nitride liner can be applied before tungsten is deposited into the oxide mold. An extremely conformal chemical vapor deposition CVD process can be used to deposit the tungsten but because CVD tungsten adheres poorly to oxide and nitride films a thin sputtered titanium nitride film not shown may be deposited first. After tungsten is deposited into the oxide mold excess tungsten material can be removed with CMP stopping on the silicon nitride support film to provide a planarized tungsten gate electrode structure comprising an annular gate electrode having a rounded lower edge above each emitter tip post .

Finally as shown in an aperture can be opened in the gate structure by etching the silicon nitride above the emitter tip . The sacrificial oxide in which the tip post is embedded can be stripped through the aperture using HF thereby releasing the silicon emitter tip post below the tungsten gate electrode . A thin tungsten coating can be applied conformally to the emitter tip post using selective CVD tungsten deposition.

The methods described above have been used to fabricate field emission arrays with integrated rounded gate electrodes. is a drawing that illustrates a scanning electron micrograph SEM of the silicon tip device of in perspective sideview such that the bottom of the rounded gate electrode is visible. The rough edge of the gate electrode is an artifact of sample preparation. In this exemplary device the silicon post and tip have been selectively coated with conformal tungsten. See S. S. Mani et al. Mat. Res. Soc. Svm D. Proc. 605 135 2000 and P. J. Resnick and S. S. Mani SPIE Proc. 4558 181 2001 .

In a photoresist mask is applied to the central area of the top surface of the wafer. In a sharp tip is etched out of the silicon post using an isotropic dry etch under the photoresist mask . The photoresist mask is stripped after the isotropic etch is complete. In an overburden of LPCVD sacrificial oxide is deposited on top of wafer and the top surface of the wafer is planarized using CMP. The sacrificial oxide is a dielectric. In a thin e.g. 200 nm poly silicon film is applied to the top surface of the wafer which will serve as an etch stop film in subsequent processing. In a deep reactive ion etch using the Bosch process defines an annular isolation trench in the poly silicon film the wafer and the oxide .

In low stress silicon nitride is deposited on the top surface of the wafer filling the isolation trench . In the silicon nitride is dry etched to produce an annular recess above the poly silicon film . A circular cap is encircled by the annular recess . In the poly silicon film residing below the annular recess is dry etched by a dry anisotropic etch to expose the oxide below thereby forming a deeper annular recess having vertical sidewalls. A thin e.g. 100 nm polysilicon film is conformally deposited over the surfaces of the recess . An anisotropic blanket dry etch is used to strip the polysilicon film from horizontal surfaces leaving a polysilicon sidewall film along the inner and outer edges of the annular recess as shown. The polysilicon sidewall film acts as a sidewall spacer.

In an isotropic wet etch process is used to form a deeper annular recess defining a rounded gate edge . The presence of the sidewall film forces the wet etchant to wrap around the sidewall film resulting in a rounded shape to both the bottom and top edge of the gate electrode mold as shown in . After the isotropic etch for the gate mold is complete the sidewall film can be stripped with a brief isotropic silicon etch e.g. using an NF3 downstream plasma. The annular recess provides a mold for a gate electrode structure.

In a silicon nitride liner is applied to the recess . In CVD tungsten is deposited over top of the silicon nitride liner in the recess thereby forming the tungsten gate electrode . The top surface of the wafer is then planarized. In a patterned photoresist mask is applied to the top surface of the wafer. The mask is patterned on the top surface of the wafer to form a gate opening . In the nitride liner and the film that are circumscribed by the tungsten gate electrode are dry etched e.g. in a fluorocarbon plasma.

In the sacrificial oxide in which the tip post is embedded is stripped through the aperture using HF thereby releasing the silicon emitter tip post below the tungsten gate electrode . In a thin tungsten coating is applied conformally to the emitter tip post using selective CVD tungsten deposition.

The tungsten damascene gate can also be integrated into field emission arrays that are fabricated with deposited tips. The methods for depositing tips through a mask have been in use for many years and have been well documented elsewhere. See C. A. Spindt J. Appl. Phvs. 39 7 3504 1968 . However for high voltage applications a thick dielectric film between the gate and the substrate is desirable to prevent break down. Because the geometry of a deposited tip is dependent on the distance between the mask and the substrate a thick stand off cannot be readily made without impacting the quality of the tip.

Therefore according to other methods of the present invention to accommodate a thick dielectric film a tungsten post can first be fabricated within a sacrificial polysilicon ring. For example this structure can be embedded within a thick oxide film. The top of the post serves as the substrate surface for tip deposition. The thick oxide provides the needed dielectric gap and the sacrificial material provides a vacuum break between the post and the oxide once it is stripped. Exemplary fabrication methods are shown in . The rounded gate electrodes of are fabricated in a manner similar to the integrated silicon tip structure fabrication method described above.

Referring now to the fabrication method of as shown in annular isolation trenches are first etched into a thick oxide film e.g. 8 m thickness grown on a degenerately doped silicon substrate and then backfilled with polysilicon . The polysilicon overburden is then planarized using chemical mechanical polishing CMP . A silicon nitride layer is blanket deposited on the planarized surface and patterned to provide openings over the oxide post regions. An oxide etch is then used to remove the oxide in the central post region of the annular polysilicon filled isolation trenches .

As shown in CVD tungsten can then deposited into post regions in the polysilicon mold and the excess tungsten material can be removed with CMP. An overburden of oxide can be deposited and planarized using CMP. The thickness of the final oxide layer after CMP determines the gap between the gate electrode and the tip . An isotropic etch for rounding the gate can be performed using an HF chemistry through a patterned aluminum nitride AlN hard mask . Tungsten for the gate can then be deposited using a conformal CVD process through the hard mask openings into the gate electrode mold to provide an annular gate electrode having a rounded lower edge for each post .

As shown in the AlN mask can then be again patterned to provide openings for removal of the oxide above the tips. A brief etch will expose the top of the post and the sacrificial ring leaving the gate embedded in dielectric while a longer etch will expose the gate electrode as well. The tips e.g. molybdenum are then deposited on the exposed top surface of each post through the mask openings in a self aligned manner. As shown in The AlN mask can then be stripped with potassium hydroxide at the same time as the sacrificial polysilicon ring releasing the gate electrode suspended above the emitter tip .

In CVD tungsten is deposited over top of the silicon wafer into the aperture of the poly silicon film thereby forming a tungsten post . The top surfaces of the oxide film and the poly silicon film are then planarized to form a flat top surface. In oxide aluminum nitride and PE silicon nitride are deposited on top of the oxide film . In an annular recess is etched through the aluminum nitride layer and the PE silicon nitride layer and into the oxide film . A circular cap is encircled by the recess . In tungsten material is deposited onto the walls of the annular recess . A blanked etch process may be employed to remove tungsten material that resides on the bottom surface of the recess . As shown in the vertical distance separating the underside of the tungsten and the underside of the nitride layer is about 0.5 mm for example.

In a portion of the PE silicon nitride layer is etched back by an isotropic etch process and an annular recess having an ovular cross section is etched into the oxide film . The annular recess provides a mold for a gate electrode structure. The size and the cross sectional shape of the recess may vary from that shown and described. The vertical distance separating the bottom of the tungsten material from the lower surface of the recess is about 0.5 m and the horizontal distance separating the tungsten material from the side surface of the recess is about 0.5 m. Those distances are designated by arrows in

In CVD tungsten is deposited into the recess to form tungsten gate electrode . The top surface of the tungsten gate electrode and the PE silicon nitride layer are then planarized to form a flat surface. In the layers of oxide aluminum nitride and PE silicon nitride are etched away by a dry etch process to form a central aperture above the top face of the tungsten post .

In the entirety of the PE silicon nitride and the portion of the oxide that resides above the poly silicon film are both etched away by an isotropic etch process. The vertical distance separating the bottom of the aluminum nitride and the lower end of the tungsten gate electrode is about 1 mm and the diameter of the aperture is about 1.5 mm. The vertical distance separating the bottom of the aluminum nitride and the top surface of the tungsten post may be about 2.5 mm for example. It should be understood that the aforementioned distances may vary from that shown and described.

In a cone shaped metal tip is deposited on the top surface of the tungsten post . The metal tip may be composed of molybdenum Mo for example. In the sacrificial poly silicon film and the layer of aluminum nitride are stripped away by a release etch process. The horizontal distance between the central axis of the metal tip and a side surface of the tungsten gate electrode is about 1.75 mm for example. In the gate electrode is supported by tungsten mesh which remains embedded in the oxide and provides contact to the hold down ring . The tungsten mesh is fabricated at the same time as the gate electrode using the same photomasks and films. Because there is no associated tip below the mesh just thick oxide electrical breakdown is not expected.

The present invention has been described as an integrated field emission array for ion desorption. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

