---

title: Automatic content recognition (ACR) fingerprinting and video encoding
abstract: Automatic content recognition (ACR) and media content encoding technologies are described. A content device can include a processing device and a capture interface. The processing device can be on a circuit board. A capture interface can be coupled to the processing device and include a data port. The processing device can be operable to execute a capture daemon. The capture daemon can include a capturer to receive media content from a content feed and generate content frames of the media content. The capture daemon can also include an encoder to receive the content frames from the capturer and encode the media content. The capture daemon can include an uploader to receive the encoded media content from the encoder and communicate the encoded media content to a broadcast sever. The capture daemon can also include an ACR fingerprinter to receive the content frames from the capturer and generate ACR fingerprint information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628830&OS=09628830&RS=09628830
owner: Sorenson Media, Inc.
number: 09628830
owner_city: Draper
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150828
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 095 539 filed Dec. 22 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference.

Media consumption devices such as smartphones tablets and smart televisions TVs can access digital content and receive data such as streaming media from data networks such as the Internet . Streaming media refers to a service in which media content can be provided to an end user upon request over a telephone line a cable the Internet and so forth. For example a user can view a movie without having to leave their residence by requesting the movie via a media consumption device and viewing the movie as it is streamed over the Internet. In another example users can access various types of educational content such as video lectures without having to physically attend a school or educational institution.

As the number of media consumption devices continues to increase media content generation and delivery may similarly increase. With an increase in use of media consuming devices to access streaming media content or network providers can distribute contextually relevant material to viewers that are consuming streaming media. For example local broadcasters can integrate contextually relevant advertisements and interactive content with streaming media.

To provide viewers with media content a media content provider may decide to stream the media content to viewers such as by delivering the media content over the Internet to the viewers. The media content provider can be an individual or an organization such as a local broadcaster a multi channel network provider or another content owner or distributor. The media content may be content such as video data originating from one or more live broadcast media feeds. For example a media content provider may provide a user media content via a linear media channel e.g. media provided from a live media feed source to a viewer over the Internet.

The word content can be used to refer to media or multimedia. The word content can also be a specific term that means the subject matter of the medium rather than the medium itself. Likewise the word media and some compound words that include media e.g. multimedia hypermedia are instead referring to content rather than to the channel through which the information is delivered to the end user or audience. An example of a type of content commonly referred to as a type of media is a motion picture referred to as a film. 

Streaming media can be media content that is received by and presented to an end user from a content provider over a network. Streaming media can be a playback or live media that can be played on media consumption devices. When media is played back on the media consumption devices the media content may be stored on a server for a period of time and then sent to the media consumption devices over the network upon request e.g. a video on demand VOD service. Live streaming can be the streaming of a live or real time event such as a news event or sports event to the media consumption devices as the event is occurring.

Streaming or transferring media content to media consumption devices over networks can include encoding data such as video and or audio data and or the transmission of the data over networks. In one example data can be encoded to provide a secure transfer of data between a provider and a media consumption device. In another example data can be encoded or converted to adjust for varying display sizes processing capabilities network conditions and or battery capabilities of the media consumption device. The content generation processing encoding and or distribution can be performed by a provider such as at a server and processing decoding and or content displaying can be performed at the media consumption devices.

Additionally while advertising can be an engaging venue to advertise products or services traditional media consumption advertising lacks targeted and personalized advertising. Traditional media consumption advertising also lacks a return path for users to engage with an advertisement and or enable retargeting of the users once an advertisement has been viewed by the users. To increase an impact and effectiveness of the advertisement an advertiser may be interested in targeting particular advertisements to particular sets of viewers such as a viewer of a selected demographic or location. The advertiser may be interested in interacting with the targeted viewer when the targeted viewer sees the targeted advertisement. For example a content provider may generate a content feed advertisement link to the media content that is relevant to a particular media item. Where consumers of the media items generally tend to select media items that are interesting to them linking advertisements to media content can enable advertisers to direct their advertisements to consumers who are interested in a particular topic. Media consumption devices with automatic content recognition ACR devices or media consumption devices that receive content with contextually relevant material can provide viewers with targeted and or personalized advertising as well as an interactive viewing experience.

In one embodiment ACR devices can use digital watermarking for ACR of broadcast digital content. For example broadcast content can be preprocessed e.g. processed prior to broadcast to insert watermark data within a content signal. That watermark data can be detected by a smart TV or an ACR device to enable identification and synchronization of the media content with the broadcast content.

In another embodiment an ACR device can identify audio and or video content using content fingerprinting. Content fingerprinting can be a processing device that identifies extracts and compresses fingerprint components of a media content to uniquely identify the media content by its fingerprint. In one example fingerprint components can be visual video features such as key frame analysis colors and motion changes during a video sequence. The ACR device can identify the video content as the video content may be displayed on a media consumption device by matching a sequence of content fingerprints for the video content being displayed with a database of content fingerprints. An advantage of content fingerprinting can be to process the media content while media content is being broadcasted or streamed e.g. live processing or within a selected threshold period of time after the media content is broadcast or streamed e.g. substantially live processing . As the ACR device processes the media content the ACR device can adjust for user behavior while the user may be viewing the media content e.g. live or substantially live adjusting . In one example the user behavior can be changing or pausing a channel adjusting a volume of the media consumption device changing menu settings and so forth. In another example the user behavior can be viewing time shifted content.

For live streaming multiple devices and or complex infrastructure can be used to provide a content feed with the contextually relevant material. For example traditionally media content can be encoded by an encoder before providing the media content to a media consumption device. A provider such as a broadcaster providing media content to a viewer may desire to distribute contextually relevant material including advertisements and interactive content to viewers. Traditionally when the provider requests that the media content include contextually relevant material the encoder can provide the media content to an ACR fingerprinter. The ACR fingerprinter can insert contextually relevant material into the encoded media content and the media content can be provided to the viewer with contextually relevant material.

As multiple devices are used for the preparation and delivery of media content with contextually relevant material infrastructure complexity resource support and system setup time and complexity can increase. For example traditionally ACR service vendors can provide a broadcaster with ACR fingerprinting services and or a device that performs ACR fingerprinting. Similarly content encoding and uploading service vendors can provide encoding and uploading services to delivering video streams over the Internet. For example content encoding and uploading service vendors can provide devices or software for installation on applications that perform content stream preparation and delivery. However the traditional separate ACR fingerprinting services and the content encoding and uploading services can cause a system of a content provider to experience faults in providing content to streaming content viewers.

Aspects of the present disclosure address the above noted deficiency of using a content device to provide media content using a linear channel. The ACR device can simultaneously fingerprint media content and encode and upload the media content to a server such as a cloud server to provide the media content to the media consumption device. The media content can provide a viewer of the media consumption device with encoded media content including contextually relevant material. In one embodiment the linear channel can be created using a cloud computing system.

The content device can receive the content feed using a capture interface . The capture interface can be used to capture and convert media content from the content feed . The media content can include audio content video content or a combination thereof. In one example the content feed is a high definition HD serial digital interface SDI stream. In another example the content feed is a standard definition SD SDI stream. In one example the capture interface can receive a content feed using a data port. In one example the data port can be a coaxial cable port such as a Bayonet Neill Concelman BNC port. In another example the data port can be a high definition multimedia interface HDMI port. In another example the capture interface is a capture card. In this example the capture card includes the data port that is an internet protocol IP network interface. The IP network interface can be an Ethernet RJ45 port that receives the media content contained in an MPEG 2 Transport Stream. In another example the content device is processing logic that executes as a process on a remote server and receives media content via a software application programming interface API . The processing logic may include hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic programmable logic microcode etc. software e.g. instructions executed by a processing device firmware or a combination thereof. The may be performed by processing logic of the content preparation system .

The capture interface can include serial digital interface SDI ports e.g. SDI In Out ports. The SDI ports can be configured to receive content e.g. an input port configuration or send content e.g. an output port configuration . The capture interface can receive one or more content feeds using the SDI ports . When the capture interface receives multiple content feeds each content feed can be fingerprinted encoded and or uploaded as discussed in the proceeding paragraphs. For example the capture interface can receive content feeds using SDI port and SDI port . In this example the capture daemon can process the content feeds in parallel.

When the capture interface receives content from the content feed the capture interface can send the content feed to a capturer . The capturer can be software firmware or hardware that can control and or interact with the capture interface . In one example the capturer instructs the capture interface to use one or more of the SDI ports as an input port or output port. In another example the capturer instructs the capture interface how to obtain incoming media content such as audio video data based on capture criteria. In one example the capturer communicates with the capturer interface to determine when media content is received from the content feed . In this example when media content is received the capturer analyzes the media content to determine feed properties. In one example the feed properties are an audio format and a video format of the media content. In another example the feed properties are bitrates of the audio and video content of the media content. The capturer can use the capture interface to obtain advanced media content information and perform advanced functions such as closed caption information time codes delivered within the feed and adjust media content data such as color space conversion and or scaling.

When the capturer receives the media content from the capture interface the capturer can provide the media content to both the ACR fingerprinter and to the segment encoder . For example the capturer can provide audio video data to both the ACR fingerprinter and the segment encoder by splitting the audio video data for delivery to the ACR fingerprinter and the segment encoder . In one example the capturer can communicate with the broadcast server or cloud s to indicate when media content is being received via the capture interface for uploading to the broadcast cloud s e.g. a streaming status. In another example the capturer can receive a status message from the broadcast cloud s indicating a status of the broadcast cloud s to receive streaming content from the capture daemon e.g. a receiving status. In one embodiment the capture daemon can communicate with the broadcast cloud s using a polling method. In this embodiment the capture daemon can send a status message to notify the broadcast cloud s of a streaming status of the capture daemon such as content ready for streaming status or no current content for streaming status and or retrieve a receiving status from the broadcast cloud s . In another example the capturer can provide system metric information to the broadcast cloud s such as central processing unit CPU utilization memory utilization drive utilization operating temperature and so forth. In another example the software updater can be configured to update the content device . For example the software updater can use a polling method to communicate with the broadcast cloud s to determine when an update has been scheduled such as a time of day and update the content device at the scheduled time.

The segment encoder can receive content from the capturer and encode the content to provide secure content for a transferring of data between the broadcast cloud s and the media consumption device. The segment encoder can also encode or convert the data to adjust for varying display sizes processing capabilities network conditions and or battery capabilities of the media consumption device.

The segment encoder can encode and write content segments to a disk or a memory of the segment encoder . When the content segments have been encoded the segment encoder can then communicate encoded content segments to the uploader . After the content is communicated to the uploader the content segments can be deleted from the disk or the memory of the segment encoder . When the uploader receives the encoded content segments the uploader can upload the encoded content segments to the broadcast cloud s . When the uploader has uploaded the encoded content segments the uploader can notify the broadcast cloud s that the encoded content segments have been encoded and can provide content metadata such as a time the content was captured by the capture interface and or a duration of the content.

The broadcast cloud s can process the uploaded encoded content segments before delivering the content segments for playback at a media consumption device. The processing by the broadcast cloud s can include transcoding the content segments into multiple bit rates to support adaptive bit rate playback and uploading all resultant segments to a content delivery network CDN .

In parallel with communicating the content to the segment encoder the capturer can generate content frames and can communicate the content frames to an ACR fingerprinter . In one example the content frames can be audio data. In another example the content frames can be video content. In this example video content can be raw video frames. When the ACR fingerprinter receives the content frames the ACR fingerprinter can determine how to process and or transform the content frames such as the raw video frames.

In one example the content frames can be fingerprinted individually. In another example the content frames can be fingerprinted in collections or sequences. The ACR fingerprinter can determine when to fingerprint the content frames individually or sequentially based on an ACR algorithm used by the ACR fingerprinter . In another example the ACR fingerprinter can fingerprint the content frames differently for different broadcasters or users. In this example the ACR fingerprinter can include different ACR fingerprinting algorithms for different ACR vendors. In one embodiment the different ACR fingerprinting algorithms can be predetermined and stored on a memory of the ACR fingerprinter . In another embodiment the different ACR fingerprinting algorithms can be provided by third party ACR vendors. When different ACR fingerprinting algorithms may be provided by the third party ACR vendors the ACR fingerprinter can aggregate the different ACR fingerprinting algorithms. In one example ACR fingerprinting can use raw video with in the YUV 4 2 2 colorspace and at high resolutions. When content feed is received at the capture interface the capturer can convert the content feed to a YUV 4 2 0 colorspace and scale it down in resolution to a threshold resolution level for encoding by the segment encoder . In another example the ACR fingerprinter can determine information for a first media consumption device using a first ACR algorithm and determine ACR fingerprint information for a second media consumption device using a second ACR algorithm.

When the ACR fingerprinter has fingerprinted the content frames the ACR fingerprinter can send fingerprints including channel information time codes and fingerprint information to the ACR cloud s . In one example the different ACR fingerprinting algorithms can be used on the same content frames to provide different fingerprinter information to ACR cloud s of different ACR vendors. Different ACR fingerprinting formats can be used by different media consumption devices manufactured by different contract equipment manufacturers CEMs . An advantage of the ACR fingerprinter including ACR fingerprinting algorithms for different ACR vendors can be to enable content to be fingerprinted and provided to viewers via different media consumption devices regardless of the manufacturer of the media consumption device. An advantage of fingerprinting the same content frames with the different ACR fingerprinting algorithms can be to provide contextually relevant advertisements and interactive content to viewers with media consumption devices using different ACR fingerprinting. In another example the content frames can include media content from different content feeds. In this example the different ACR fingerprinting algorithms can be used on the content frames of the different content feeds to provide different fingerprinting information to ACR cloud s of different ACR vendors.

The different fingerprinting information can be uploaded to ACR cloud s of the different ACR vendors respectively. In one example the ACR cloud s can use the ACR fingerprinting information for digital advertisement replacement DAR . In another example the ACR fingerprinting information can be used for advertisement or content augmentation and data collection. The ACR cloud s can use the fingerprinting information to match the encoded content with contextually relevant advertisements and interactive content. The matched encoded content and contextually relevant advertisements and interactive content can then be provided to the media consumption devices for display. In another example information about the matching events can be communicated to the broadcast cloud s for analysis of content matching.

In one example ACR fingerprinting information can be delivered to the ACR cloud s before broadcast schedule metadata can be communicated from the broadcast cloud s to the ACR cloud s . In another example the broadcast schedule metadata can be uploaded to the ACR cloud s when an entire segment has been encoded and received at the broadcast cloud s . In another example content can be continuously fingerprinted and resultant fingerprinting information can be continuously communicated or communicated at select rates to ACR vendor clouds. The selected rates can be based on the different ACR vendors. For example one vendor can deliver ACR fingerprinting information several times per second whereas another vendor may deliver this information once every 2 5 seconds.

In one example the content device can encoded encrypt and upload content to the broadcast cloud s . In another example the content device can receive broadcaster specific schedule metadata from a broadcaster data about what shows and ads are in the content feed received at the capture interface . The metadata can be communicated by the content device to the broadcast cloud s . In another example the broadcast cloud s can communicate metadata such as broadcaster specific schedule metadata to the ACR cloud s or to different ACR cloud s of different vendors so that vendors can us the metadata to match up to the fingerprint information received from the ACR fingerprinter .

In one example the content device can use a first communication channel to communicate with the broadcast server and use a second communication channel to communicate with an ACR cloud . For example the uploader of the content device can communicate or upload encoded content to a broadcast server using the first communication channel. In this example the ACR fingerprinter can communicate ACR fingerprinting information to the ACR cloud using the second communication channel. The first and second communication channels can be wired or wireless communication channels such as Wi Fi communication channels or cellular communication channels.

In one example where the capturer splits the audio video data for delivery to the ACR fingerprinter and the segment encoder . In another example the content device encodes and uploads the media content using the segment encoder and uploader and ACR fingerprints the media content using the ACR fingerprinter at the same time or over a threshold period of time. In another example the content device encodes and uploads the media content using the segment encoder and uploader in parallel with ACR fingerprinting the media content using the ACR fingerprinter .

In one example the capture interface receives the media content from the content feed and delivers the media content to the capturer . The capturer can split the media content into multiple threads or processes that can be processed by the segment encoder and the ACR fingerprinter simultaneously or in parallel. In this example a first thread or process can be encoded by the segment encoder and uploaded by the uploader . In one embodiment a second thread or process can be fingerprinted by the ACR fingerprinter simultaneously or in parallel with the encoding. In another embodiment the capturer can deliver one or more threads or processes to different external ACR fingerprinters for fingerprinting.

The content device can be a centralized device that can encode and fingerprint media content in parallel to provide media content with contextually relevant content to the media consumption device. An advantage of encoding and fingerprinting the media content simultaneously or in parallel at the content device is to minimize an amount of infrastructure overhead and monitoring used. Another advantage of the content device encoding uploading and fingerprinting content can be to provide fault tolerant content streaming with ACR fingerprinting. For example when the ACR fingerprinter fails content streaming can continue without interruption and the ACR fingerprinting can be restarted. In one example the fault tolerant content preparation system can perform ACR fingerprinting as a separate process from content encoding and uploading to avoid faults in providing streaming content for viewing.

In one example the ACR fingerprinter can perform ACR fingerprinting upstream of broadcast distribution in the content preparation system . In another example the ACR fingerprinting can occur in the broadcast chain where broadcast feeds can be delivered for encoding and uploading. An advantage of performing ACR fingerprinting where the broadcast feeds can be delivered for encoding and uploading can be to enable the content preparation system to combine the ACR fingerprinting encoding and uploading into a single device. Another advantage of performing ACR fingerprinting where the broadcast feeds can be delivered for encoding and uploading can be to utilize a single broadcast feed to perform ACR fingerprinting encoding and uploading. When a single broadcast feed is used a number of devices and or applications to be purchased installed monitored and maintained for ACR fingerprinting encoding and uploading of content by an enterprise can be reduced. For example capital expenses CAPEX and or operational expenses OPEX of the enterprise can be reduced such as a reduced system infrastructure rack space power and Ethernet connectivity . Additionally when a single broadcast feed is used a number of broadcast feeds generated from a broadcaster s distribution amplifier can be reduced.

Referring to the method begins with capturing media content by capture interface from the content feed . The method can also include communicating by the capture interface the media content to the capturer . The method can include communicating by the capturer the media content to the ACR fingerprinter and to the segment encoder .

The method can also include encoding by the segment encoder the content based on encoding criteria to obtain encoded content . In one example the encoding criteria can include a security encryption format display size adjustment information network processing capabilities information network communication condition information or battery capabilities of a media consumption device. In one example the battery capabilities of media consumption device may be predetermined and stored at the content device. In this example the content device can encode the media content based on the battery capabilities to reduce battery drain using lower resolution media content for battery capacity limited media consumption devices or increase the resolution of the media content when the battery capacity of the media consumption device is relatively large. The method can also include sending by the segment encoder the encoded content to the uploader . The method can also include receiving from the segment encoder the encoded content at the uploader . The method can also include uploading by the uploader the encoded content to the broadcast server or cloud .

The method can also include determining by the ACR fingerprinter the ACR fingerprinting information based on the media content . The method can also include communicating by the ACR fingerprinter the ACR fingerprinting information to the ACR cloud . In one example the encoding the media content and ACR fingerprinting of the media content are done at the same time or in parallel. In another example the encoding the media content and ACR fingerprinting of the media content are done independent of each other.

The computer system may correspond to the content preparation system of . The computer system may correspond to the content device of . The computer system may correspond to at least a portion of the content device such as the capture daemon or the capture interface .

The computer system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computer RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. In one embodiment processing device may include one or more processing cores. The processing device is configured to execute the instructions of a mirroring logic for performing the operations discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device communicably coupled to a network . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or other peripheral devices. Furthermore computer system may include a graphics processing unit a video processing unit and an audio processing unit . In another embodiment the computer system may include a chipset not illustrated which refers to a group of integrated circuits or chips that are designed to work with the processing device and controls communications between the processing device and external devices. For example the chipset may be a set of chips on a motherboard that links the processing device to very high speed devices such as main memory and graphic controllers as well as linking the processing device to lower speed peripheral buses of peripherals such as USB PCI or ISA buses.

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies of functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processing device during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processing device also constituting computer readable storage media.

The computer readable storage medium may also be used to store instructions utilizing logic and or a software library containing methods that call the above applications. While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium or computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instruction for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

In the above description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Although the embodiments may be herein described with reference to specific integrated circuits such as in computing platforms or microprocessors other embodiments are applicable to other types of integrated circuits and logic devices. Similar techniques and teachings of embodiments described herein may be applied to other types of circuits or semiconductor devices. For example the disclosed embodiments are not limited to desktop computer systems or Ultrabooks and may be also used in other devices such as handheld devices tablets other thin notebooks systems on a chip SOC devices and embedded applications. Some examples of handheld devices include cellular phones Internet protocol devices smartphones digital cameras personal digital assistants PDAs and handheld PCs. Embedded applications typically include a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP a system on a chip network computers NetPC set top boxes network hubs wide area network WAN switches or any other system that can perform the functions and operations taught below.

Although the embodiments are herein described with reference to a processor or processing device other embodiments are applicable to other types of integrated circuits and logic devices. Similar techniques and teachings of embodiments of the present invention can be applied to other types of circuits or semiconductor devices that can benefit from higher pipeline throughput and improved performance. The teachings of embodiments of the present invention are applicable to any processor or machine that performs data manipulations. However the present invention is not limited to processors or machines that perform 512 bit 256 bit 128 bit 64 bit 32 bit and or 16 bit data operations and can be applied to any processor and machine in which manipulation or management of data is performed. In addition the following description provides examples and the accompanying drawings show various examples for the purposes of illustration. However these examples should not be construed in a limiting sense as they are merely intended to provide examples of embodiments of the present invention rather than to provide an exhaustive list of all possible implementations of embodiments of the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. The blocks described herein can be hardware software firmware or a combination thereof.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as detecting initiating determining continuing halting receiving recording or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such. Also the terms first second third fourth etc. as used herein are meant as labels to distinguish among different elements and may not necessarily have an ordinal meaning according to their numerical designation.

Embodiments described herein may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media magnetic media any medium that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the operations. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the embodiments as described herein.

The above description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present embodiments. Thus the specific details set forth above are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the scope of the present embodiments.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the present embodiments should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

