---

title: Object delivery authentication
abstract: A method and system for authenticating delivery including the steps of receiving by a receiver a delivery information package from a deliverer over a network during a communication between the receiver and the deliverer, wherein the delivery package includes deliverer identity information, sending an authentication request of the received delivery package from the receiver to an authentication module having a hardware processor, over at least one of a call network and an additional network, and authenticating the received delivery package using the deliverer identity information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491163&OS=09491163&RS=09491163
owner: TP Lab Inc.
number: 09491163
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150707
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 330 182 filed Dec. 19 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 282 549 filed Nov. 18 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 103 874 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference

Use of telephones and related communication devices range from casual calls between family and friends to serious communications between a person and a business business to business and within a business. During such telephone calls parties often desire to exchange information documents or other items or to have information sent from one party to the other. During such transfers one party is often in the position of having to rely on the validity of the information documents or items hereinafter objects transferred from the other. For example a first party of a telephone call must assume a certain level of trust for any objects delivered by the second party.

In further examples the second party provides the first party with their identity such as Patient Registration Department of Local Hospital Shipment Department of Local Hardware Store Credit Card Fraud Unit of Major Bank or a given name or surname. The first party assumes that the identity is authentic and trusts the objects delivered by the second party.

Likewise by way of example the first party might receive a telephone call from the second party and the telephone service provides the first party with the caller identity of the telephone call. While the first party assumes that the caller identity represents the second party and thus trusts the objects delivered by the second party the caller identity might in fact identify only a telephone subscription used by the second party to make the telephone call and not the actual identity of the second party.

While an assumption of trust may be sufficient for casual telephone calls such as between friends and family it is not necessarily sufficient for more serious or business related communications such as between a business and its customers or document exchanges between businesses. This demonstrates the need to provide a solution for authenticating the delivery of objects from one party to another during or in association with a telephone call or other communication between parties.

It is thus desirable to provide a method and system that allows a party to authenticate the delivery of objects from another party in association with a telephone call or other communication.

An aspect of the present invention provides an object delivery authentication method. The method includes receiving by an object receiver an object delivery information package from an object deliverer over a call network connecting the object receiver and the object deliverer. The object delivery information package comprises object information and object deliverer identity information. Next the object receiver receives an object from the object deliverer and the receipt of the object is authenticated by the object receiver using the object information and object deliverer identity information.

In one aspect of the invention the authentication occurs over the call network during the communication between the object deliverer and object receiver.

In another aspect of the invention the authentication occurs over the call network during a different communication between the object deliverer and object receiver.

In a further aspect of the invention the authentication occurs during a second communication between the object deliverer and object receiver using a different call network.

In another aspect of the invention the authentication further includes requesting authentication of receipt of the object from an authentication module by the object receiver and receiving a notification from the authentication module by the object receiver. The notification indicates whether the object receipt is authentic.

In an aspect of the invention authentication is requested from the authentication module by the object receiver over a network. In an embodiment the authentication request is made via an application programming interface.

Another aspect of the invention provides that the authentication of receipt of the object performed by the authentication module includes the steps of comparing the object deliverer identity information received by the object receiver with an authentication datastore by the authentication module the authentication module being in communication with the authentication datastore and when the object deliverer identity information matches the authentication datastore determining that the object receipt is authentic or otherwise determining that the object receipt is not authentic.

In another further aspect of the invention the authentication datastore includes a computer database.

Another aspect of the invention provides that the authentication of receipt of the object performed by the authentication module includes the steps of comparing the object information received by the object receiver with an authentication datastore by the authentication module the authentication module being in communication with the authentication datastore and when the object information matches the authentication datastore determining that the object receipt is authentic or when the object information does not match the authentication datastore determining that the object receipt is not authentic.

Another aspect of the invention provides an object delivery authentication system which includes an object receiver in communication with an object deliverer over a communications network an object to be sent by the object deliverer to the object receiver and an object delivery information package comprising object information and object deliverer identity information sent by the object deliverer to the object receiver in which the object receiver authenticates the receipt of the object using the object delivery information.

Another aspect of the invention includes the system as described above in which the object delivery information package is sent during a second communication between the object deliverer and the object receiver.

Another aspect of the invention includes the system as described above in which the object delivery information package is sent from the object deliverer to the object receiver over an alternative communications network over which the object deliverer and object receiver communicate.

Another aspect of the invention includes the system as described above in which the object delivery information package is sent from the object deliverer to the object receiver over an alternative communications network over which the object deliverer and object receiver communicate.

A further aspect of the present invention comprises the system described above additionally including an authentication module in communication with the object receiver. The authentication module includes an authentication datastore comprising a plurality of object delivery information in which the authentication module receives an authentication request from the object receiver. The authentication request includes the object delivery information package sent to object receiver by object deliverer. The authentication module compares the object delivery information package with the plurality of object delivery information in the authentication datastore and when the object delivery information package matches at least one of the plurality of object delivery information in the authentication datastore the authentication module sends to the object receiver a result indicating that the object receipt is authentic by the authentication module or otherwise sends a result indicating that the object receipt is not authentic.

In another aspect of the invention the comparison of the object delivery information package with the object delivery information in the authentication datastore includes comparison of object information only.

In another aspect of the invention the comparison of the object delivery information package with the object delivery information in the authentication datastore includes comparison of object deliverer identity only.

 Object as used herein broadly includes any item such as but not limited to a document or other item and all means by which such objects are transferred or preserved including but not limited to all written printed typewritten Photostatted photographed recorded or otherwise reproduced communications reproductions or material correspondence memoranda business records notebooks ledgers journals schedules checks invoices receipts notes calendars worksheets work papers and printouts and all material recorded transmitted of stored by any mechanical or electronic means such as hard drives and other data storage devices tapes disks electronic mail or facsimile transmissions digital or analog audio video or audio video emails and other electronic records. In the described embodiments of the present invention an object may comprise information in any form such as described above including but not limited to physical electronic optical and magnetic representations of information.

In the following description for purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one having ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known features may be omitted or simplified so as not to obscure the present invention. Furthermore reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Object information in an embodiment of the present invention may include any information regarding the object itself including but not limited to summary information indexing information categorization information checksum information length word or letter count an object type and the like.

Object deliverer identity information in an exemplary embodiment may include any information that serves to reveal the identity of the deliver. For example this might include an individual s or business name a social security or tax identity number a telephone number a customer number or any other identification information.

A process to authenticate the delivery of an object based on object delivery information is schematically illustrated in .

In an exemplary embodiment an object receiver and an object deliverer are conducting a voice call over a call network . The call network may include a telephone network or other network that supports voice calls. During the call the object deliverer has an object to send to the object receiver .

In an embodiment the object deliverer sends an object delivery information to the object receiver over the call. The object delivery information preferably includes object information which may be any information usable to identify the object . The object delivery information may also or alternatively include object deliverer identity information which may be any information usable to identify the object deliverer .

Next the object receiver receives the object delivery information and uses it to authenticate the delivery of the object . In an exemplary embodiment the object receiver authenticates the delivery of the object during a voice call.

In another exemplary embodiment the object receiver authenticates the delivery of the object at a later time. For example an object includes an audio message and the object deliverer sends a voice message to the object receiver during a voice call. The voice message includes the object and object delivery information . The object receiver may then authenticate the delivery of the object at the time the object receiver listens to the voice message.

In an embodiment the object receiver authenticates the delivery of the object by requesting authentication from an authentication module . For example the object receiver sends a request for authentication to the authentication module over a network not depicted . The authentication request preferably includes object delivery information .

In another embodiment the object receiver sends the request for authentication to the authentication module via an application programming interface not depicted . The exemplary application programming interface may in turn be in communication with the authentication module and the object receiver .

Upon receipt of the authentication request in an embodiment the authentication module authenticates the delivery of the object based on the object delivery information in the authentication request . described in detail below illustrate processes used by the authentication module in embodiments of the present invention to determine if delivery of the object is authentic.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention operate on a call network . The call network may include facilities enabling the object deliverer object receiver and authorization module to intercommunicate using a broader public or private network such as for example the Internet or any other device or method that can communicate alpha numeric data through one or more servers.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention operate in accordance with a plurality of networked computers such as for example an object deliverer computer object receiver computer and a call network server computer which are coupled together on a communications network such as for example the Internet or a wide area network. The call network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet and is hardwired wireless or a hybrid thereof.

In one embodiment after determining that the delivery of the object is authentic the authentication module returns an authentication result to the object receiver to indicate that the delivery of object is authentic. Alternatively if the authentication module determines that the delivery of the object is not authentic the authentication module returns an authentication result to the object receiver to indicate that the delivery of the object is not authentic.

In an embodiment authentication module connects to an authentication datastore . The authentication datastore preferably includes an interface not depicted for communication with the authentication module . In an embodiment it also includes facilities for storing and retrieving data such as a hard disk a computer memory and a processor configured to run computer software such as a computer database all not depicted . The various configurations of components and operating software required to implement an authentication datastore as in an embodiment of the present invention are well known to practitioners of ordinary skill in computer systems

In an embodiment the authentication module determines whether the delivery of the object is authentic by determining that the object deliverer identity information is valid. In such an embodiment the object receiver may send an authentication request to the authentication module . The authentication request includes object delivery information . For example the authentication module may accomplish determination by comparing the object deliverer identification information with a plurality of object deliverer identity information entries not depicted in the authentication datastore . If the object deliverer identity information is a match for any of the entries in the authentication datastore then the authentication module determines that the delivery of object is authentic. Otherwise no match is found the authentication module determines that the delivery of the object is not authentic.

In another embodiment the authentication module determines that the delivery of the object is authentic by determining that object information is valid. In such an embodiment the authentication datastore includes a plurality of object information entries not depicted . The authentication module attempts to match the object information with the object information entries in the authentication datastore . If there is a match the authentication module determines that the object information and thus the object is valid. Otherwise if there is no match the authentication module determines that the delivery of object in not valid.

In another embodiment the authentication module determines that the delivery of the object is authentic by determining that the object deliverer identity identifies an authentic object deliverer for an object described by object information . The authentication datastore may include a listing of object deliverer identities and associate each object deliverer identity with one or more object information. When the authentication module finds the object deliverer identity associated with the object information in the authentication datastore it determines that the object delivery is authentic. Otherwise if the object deliver identity is not found in the authentication datastore or if it is not associated therein with the object information then the authentication module finds that the object delivery is not authentic.

In another embodiment the authentication datastore includes one or more object information object deliverer identity pairs. The authentication module matches the object information and object deliverer identity provided to it by the object receiver with the authentication datastore s object information object deliverer identity pairs. If there is a match the authentication module determines that the object deliverer identity identifies an authentic object deliverer for the object described by the object information and that the delivery of the object is authentic.

In an embodiment of the present invention the authentication datastore includes a list of one or more object information each of which object information being associated with one or more object deliverer identities with each object deliverer identity identifying an authentic object deliverer for an object described by the object information to which it is associated. The authentication module matches object information with the application datastore s one or more object information. If there is a match the authentication module then matches the object deliverer identity with the one or more object deliverer identities associated with the matched object information. If there is a match the authentication module determines that the object deliverer identity identifies an authentic object deliverer for the object described by the object information and that the delivery of object is authentic. Otherwise if no match is found for either the object information or an associated object deliverer identity the authentication module determines that the object deliverer identity does not identify an authentic object deliverer for the object .

In an embodiment of the present invention the authentication datastore includes a list of one or more object deliverer identities each of which object deliverer identities being associated with one or more object information with each object deliverer identities identifying an authentic object deliverer for an object described by the object information to which it is associated. The authentication module matches object deliver identity with the application datastore s one or more object deliverer identities. If there is a match the authentication module then matches the object information with the one or more object information associated with the matched object deliverer identity. If there is a match the authentication module determines that the object deliverer identity identifies an authentic object deliverer for the object described by the object information and that the delivery of object is authentic. Otherwise if no match is found for either the object deliverer identity or an associated object information the authentication module determines that the object deliverer identity does not identify an authentic object deliverer for the object .

Another exemplary embodiment of the invention as illustrated in includes a process whereby the authentication module determines whether the delivery of an object is authentic based on a query posed by the authentication module of the object deliverer .

In one embodiment the query includes a secret . The secret may be associated with the object information the object deliverer identity or both.

In another embodiment the authentication module obtains the secret based on the object delivery information . Alternatively the secret may be obtained from the object delivery information itself or the secret may be stored in and obtained from the authentication datastore . In another embodiment the authentication module obtains the secret from the authentication datastore using the object delivery information . In an embodiment the authentication module may obtain the secret over a network.

In an embodiment of the present invention the secret includes a question and an answer . The authentication module sends the question to the object deliverer which responds by sending a response to the authentication module . Upon receipt of the response from the object deliverer the authentication module compares the response received from the object deliverer with the answer included in the secret . If the answer and the response match the authentication module determines that the delivery of the object is authentic. Otherwise if the answer and the response do not match the authentication module determines that the delivery of the object is not authentic.

Examples of questions that may be used with their correct answers in an embodiment of the present invention include but are not limited to what is the password what is the pin code and what is the digital signature .

In one embodiment the authentication module sends the question to the object deliverer via the object receiver and receives the answer from the object deliverer via the object receiver .

In another embodiment the authentication module sends the question to and receives the answer from the object deliverer via a connection between the authentication module and the object deliverer . The authentication module may establish a connection to the object deliverer based on connection information for the object deliverer . This connection information may be included in the object delivery information or it may be included in the authentication datastore and extracted by the authentication module using the object delivery information or it may be obtained from other sources.

In one embodiment the query from the authentication module to the object deliverer may contain a plurality of questions based on a plurality of secrets instead of just one. Then the authentication module ascertains the validity of the delivery of the object based on the number of correct answers provided being equal to or greater than a pre selected minimum.

As mentioned the authentication module provides an object key associated with object to the object receiver after determining that the delivery of the object is authentic. In one embodiment the authentication module provides the object key to the object receiver in the authentication result . In another embodiment the authentication module provides the object key to the object receiver after returning the authentication result to the object receiver .

In an embodiment the object is encrypted and the object key includes a decryption key for the object . The object receiver may then use the object key to decrypt the object .

In an embodiment one organization entity and another organization entity are conducting a voice call over a call network . One organization entity sends an object delivery information including an object deliverer identity that identifies the organization entity to the other organization entity . The organization entity receiving the object delivery information sends an authentication request to the authentication module . The authentication module then determines whether the object deliverer identity is valid as described herein and sends a authentication result back to the organization entity .

In an exemplary embodiment business entity corresponds to a business. The business entity may be an online retail business in which case the notification may be but is not limited to an order confirmation notification an order fulfillment notification or a shipment tracking notification or the business entity may be a bank in which case the notification may be but is not limited to a monthly statement a mortgage late payment notification or a security risk notification for a credit card account. In yet another exemplary embodiment the business entity may be a magazine publisher and the notification be but is not limited to a subscription expiration notification or a subscription promotion notification. In an other exemplary embodiment the business entity may be a telemarketer and the notification may be an advertisement notification a promotional offer notification or a charity pledge notification. Numerous other embodiments are also possible for many other types of business.

In an embodiment the business entity makes a voice call to the customer over the call network . The business entity sends the object delivery information to the customer . The object delivery information preferably includes object type and object deliverer identity . The object type indicates a notification type object. The object deliverer identity identifies the business entity . The authentication module determines whether the delivery of notification is authentic by determining that the object deliverer identity identifies an authentic object deliverer for the object classified by object type using the methodology described herein.

In an embodiment healthcare entity makes a call to the patient over a call network . Object delivery information includes object identity and object deliverer identity . The object identity identifies the medical report and the object deliverer identity identifies the healthcare entity . The authentication module determines whether the delivery of the medical report is authentic by determining that the object deliverer identity identifies an authentic object deliverer for the object identified by object identity as described above e.g. for .

In one embodiment the object deliverer delivers an object to an object receiver via the call network . In another embodiment the call network includes a data network for the delivery of the object .

In an embodiment the authentication module communicates the object deliverer through a data communication session. In one embodiment this data communication session is over the call network .

In one embodiment the object delivery information is sent through a data network. The call between the object receiver and the object deliverer includes a data communication session. In such an embodiment the call network includes a data network.

Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the present invention. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

