---

title: Computer readable storage media for invoking direct actions and processes and systems utilizing same
abstract: Systems and processes for performing functions are disclosed herein. An example non-transitory computer-readable storage medium may store one or more programs, and the one or more programs may comprise instructions which, when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device, cause the electronic device to obtain a scanned code, analyze the scanned code to identify a direct action associated with the scanned code, and automatically invoke the one or more functions corresponding to the direct action. The direct action may correspond to one or more functions on the device or on another device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594555&OS=09594555&RS=09594555
owner: Quikkly Ltd.
number: 09594555
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20150403
---
This application relates to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 976 385 entitled QUICK ACCESS CODE SYSTEM filed Apr. 7 2014. The content of this application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of codes and more particularly to quick access codes.

While machine readable codes e.g. quick response codes were originally developed for industrial uses such as managing production lines and stock management such codes have more recently been adopted in other industries as well. By way of example these codes have been used for marketing purposes in circumstances where an end user scans a code using a device and is presented with a website from which functions associated with that website may thereafter be accessed. In many instances the end user does not know the purpose for a code until the code is scanned. Moreover once published codes are difficult to reassign functionally and track analytically.

Augmented reality on the other hand is directed to a technology where a camera is pointed at a scene or graphic and an augmented experience of the scene appears on a screen. Support for augmented reality is not widely adopted and it is often unclear to end users which scenes or images can be augmented.

Accordingly neither machine readable codes nor augmented reality presents a tenable solution for intuitively specifying functions associated with scanning codes and images.

In accordance with some embodiments a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs comprising instructions is disclosed. The instructions when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device cause the electronic device to obtain a scanned code analyze the scanned code to identify a direct action associated with the scanned code wherein the direct action corresponds to one or more functions on the device or on another device and automatically invoke the one or more functions corresponding to the direct action.

In accordance with some embodiments a method is disclosed. The method includes obtaining with an electronic device a scanned code analyzing with the electronic device the scanned code to identify a direct action associated with the scanned code wherein the direct action corresponds to one or more functions on the device or on another device and automatically invoking the one or more functions corresponding to the direct action.

In accordance with some embodiments a system is disclosed. The system includes a memory and at least one processing unit coupled to the memory. The memory is encoded with executable instructions that when executed cause the at least one processing unit to obtain a scanned code analyze the scanned code to identify a direct action associated with the scanned code wherein the direct action corresponds to one or more functions on the device or on another device and automatically invoke the one or more functions corresponding to the direct action.

Systems and processes for invoking direct actions are disclosed herein. In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention an electronic device may obtain a scanned code such as a quick access code QAC to identify and invoke a direct action associated with the code. In some examples the electronic device may invoke the direct action automatically. The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the various embodiments. Descriptions of specific devices techniques and applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications to the examples described herein will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other examples and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments. Thus the various embodiments are not intended to be limited to the examples described herein and shown but are to be accorded the broadest scope consistent with the claims.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in conjunction with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment. The processes depicted in the figures that follow are performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software or a combination thereof. Although the processes are described below in terms of one or more sequential operations it should be appreciated that some of the operations described may be performed in a different order in combination with additional operations or in combination with fewer operations. Moreover in some examples some operations may be performed in parallel rather than sequentially.

Each client device may be configured to communicate over a network with any number of devices including but not limited to one more devices of the code scanning system . The network may comprise one or more networks such as local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs cellular networks and or the Internet. Communications provided to from and within the network may wired and or wireless and further may be provided using any networking devices known in the art now or in the future. Devices communicating over the network may communicate with any communication protocol including TCP IP and UDP protocols. Moreover client devices may be configured to communicate using known protocols such as HTTP HTTPS SSL or any protocol derived therefrom.

Each client device may communicate through the network to a QAC server system . The QAC server system may be a general purpose computer system a special purpose computer system and or any other type of data processing system such as the system shown in which can be configured to provide one or more code services for instance to one or more client devices . By way of example the QAC server system can be configured to execute instructions that cause the QAC server system to provide code services to client devices .

With reference to the QAC server system may be implemented using the QAC server system in some examples. The QAC server system may include one or more processing units a memory and a storage device . In turn the storage device may include a QAC engine . References made herein to the QAC engine may refer to the executable instructions for the QAC engine being executed by one or more processing units or by any other processing units. Herein the term computer readable media is used to refer to a single computer readable medium in some embodiments and in other embodiments a plurality of computer readable media. Accordingly storage device may include any number of and or formats of computer readable media. By way of example storage device may include any non transitory computer readable storage or computer readable memory including but not limited to externally or internally attached hard disk drives solid state storage such as NAND flash NOR flash or PCM media tiered storage solutions storage area networks network attached storage and or optical storage. In some examples the storage device may include one or more database systems for storing data using one or more predefined structures. Databases of the storage device may be scalable and or distributed among any number of computer readable media and locations.

In some examples data stored in the storage device may be code data. Code data may include data for one or more codes such as quick access codes QACs . With reference to a QAC may be a code such as the quick access code including one or more human readable elements e.g. human readable element such as text or a graphic for providing information to an end user one or more machine readable elements e.g. machine readable element such as a two dimensional barcode for providing information to a device and one or more signaling elements e.g. signaling element for identifying the code. As will be described in further detail the human readable element of a QAC may describe e.g. visually depict a functionality of the QAC to the end user and the machine readable element of a QAC may include an identifier of a direct action which may be invoked to provide the described functionality. The machine readable element may further include metadata that may be used to identify an entity associated with the code and or determine whether a QAC has been scanned properly. In some examples code data stored by the storage device may further include data associated with the one or more codes stored in the storage device . By way of example code data associated with a code may include instructions for invoking a direct action associated with the code.

At a step a client device obtains a scanned code such as a QAC. A scanned code may be obtained for instance in response to scanning a code using a scan application of the client device . Codes may be scanned from printed or static media or an electronic display. In at least one embodiment the scan application may scan a code using a scanner e.g. barcode reader of the client device or another device. In other embodiments a code may be scanned by capturing an image of the code for instance using a camera of the client device .

Once a scanned code has been obtained at a step the scan application analyzes the code to identify a direct action associated with the scanned code. In some examples analyzing the code may include identifying a machine readable element of the code and analyzing the machine readable element. Machine readable elements may be identified e.g. located for instance using one or more reference points e.g. pixels identifying a location and or orientation of the machine readable element relative to the code.

Once the machine readable element has been identified the scan application may analyze the machine readable element to identify a direct action associated with the code. Direct actions identified in this manner may be object specific and or may correspond to one more functions. By way of example a direct action may correspond to one or more functions such that invoking the direct action results in invoking the one or more functions corresponding to the direct action. Briefly analyzing the machine readable element may include translating e.g. decoding the machine readable element to identify the direct action associated with the machine readable element. In some instances the machine readable element may further include other information such as metadata. As an example the machine readable element may identify an entity associated with the code such as a business at which the code is located or a user associated with the code. As another example the machine readable element may include a checksum and or one or more error correction codes that may be used to determine whether a translation of the machine readable element is accurate.

Machine readable elements as described may include identifiers associated with respective direct actions corresponding to one or more respective functions and accordingly it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that machine readable elements taught herein may be advantageous over previously existing machine readable elements. Briefly previously known machine readable elements merely include data such as web addresses and are as a result limited in their use. By including an identifier of a direct action in lieu of or in addition to mere data machine readable elements as taught herein provide improved functionality and more intuitive use of codes.

In some examples the scan application may translate the machine readable element into a string e.g. of alphanumeric characters and portions of the string may correspond to an identifier e.g. identification number of the direct action an entity associated with the code and or a checksum respectively. Strings provided in this manner may be of any length and or structured in any format.

In some examples the scan application determines whether the direct action associated with the code is a priority direct action. Priority direct actions are direct actions whose instructions are stored locally on the client device and may be direct actions commonly and or recently invoked by devices of the end user and or among a plurality of other users. Because instructions required to invoke a priority direct action are stored on the client device a client device may invoke a priority direct action without receiving further instructions. In some examples the scan application may determine whether a direct action is a priority direct action by comparing the identifier of the direct action against respective identifiers of each of the plurality of priority direct action stored on the client device . Additionally or alternatively the scan application may compare direct actions using direct action names checksums associated entities or any combination thereof.

If the direct action associated with the code is not a priority direct action the scan application retrieves instructions for invoking the direct action for instance from the QAC server system . With reference to a process for providing instructions associated with a direct action is described. In some examples the process may be implemented using the QAC engine of the QAC server system of . At a step the QAC engine may receive a request for instructions for invoking a direct action for instance from a scan application . The request may include the identifier of the direct action.

At a step the QAC engine retrieves instructions for invoking the function. By way of example the QAC engine may use the identifier to locate the instructions for invoking the direct action in one or more databases of the storage device . At a step the QAC engine provides the instructions to the scan application of the client device .

Referring again to at a step the scan application causes the client device to automatically invoke the direct action associated with the scanned code. In this manner the direct action may be invoked without any input from an end user and without performing any interstitial steps e.g. accessing an interstitial web page or diverting a function associated with the direct action to another service. As described invoking a direct action may include invoking one or more functions of an application or service for instance on the client device or on one or more other devices. The scan application may invoke e.g. perform direct actions of applications or services stored on the client device for instance by calling one or more subroutines e.g. executing instructions of any number of applications and or the scan application may invoke direct actions of applications or services residing on other devices for instance using application programming interface API calls or remote procedure calls RPCs . Example direct actions include but are not limited to 

In an example operation directed to a priority direct action an end user may visit a business and wish to connect to the wireless network provided by the business. Accordingly the end user may obtain a scanned code for connecting to the wireless network and in response the scan application may identify and analyze machine readable element of the code identify a direct action associated with the code recall that the machine readable element includes an identifier that may be used to retrieve instructions of a priority direct action stored on the client device . The scan application may use instructions associated with the direct action to automatically connect to the wireless network.

In an example operation directed to a non priority direct action an end user may visit a business and wish to enter a competition e.g. raffle offered by the business. Accordingly the end user may obtain a scanned code for entering the competition and in response the scan application may identify and analyze a machine readable element of the code to identify the direct action of the code recall that the machine readable element includes an identifier that may be used to retrieve instructions of a non priority direct action from the QAC server system . The scan application may retrieve the appropriate instructions for invoking the direct action and use the instructions to automatically enter the end user in the competition.

In some examples where a scan application retrieves instructions from the QAC server system the scan application may store the instructions on the client device for further use and or add the direct action to a list of priority direct actions. In this manner a scan application may reduce a number of requests for instructions from the QAC server .

In some examples a code may be associated with multiple direct actions each of which may be identified by a scan application . Accordingly the scan application may retrieve instructions for and or invoke each of the direct actions sequentially or may retrieve instructions for and or invoke each of the direct actions concurrently simultaneously or in an otherwise overlapping manner. Whether direct actions are invoked sequentially or simultaneously may be indicated by a code. The scan application may present one or more of the multiple direct actions to an end user allowing the end user to select which of the direct actions are invoked by the scan application .

In some examples the scan application may be invoked by one or more other applications. Applications invoking the scan application may further specify whether obtaining scanned codes for instance with the scan application is restricted to one or more types of codes and further may specify whether an end user should be returned to an application once a scanned code has been analyzed. In other examples one or more other applications may embed a scan module such that the applications are configured to obtain scanned codes in accordance with examples described herein.

As described with respect to the process if a direct action is not a priority direct action the scan application may retrieve instructions for invoking the direct action from the QAC server system . In some instances however data network communication may be unavailable such that the scan application cannot retrieve additional instructions or properly invoke a direct action requiring data network communication.

At a step an end user may obtain a scanned code and identify a direct action associated with the code. For example as described with reference to step of a scan application may identify a machine readable element of the code and analyze the machine readable element to identify the direct action associated with the code. At a step the scan application determines whether the direct action is a priority direct action. In some examples this determination includes comparing an identifier of the code with identifiers of one or more direct actions stored locally on the client device .

If the scan application determines that the direct action is not a priority direct action because data network communication is unavailable the scan application stores the identifier of the code on the client device at a step . The scan application further may optionally notify the end user that the identifier was stored. When the client device subsequently reestablishes data network communication the scan application may retrieve instructions for invoking the direct action using the identifier and invoke the direct action as described with respect to steps and of respectively.

If the scan application determines that the direct action is a priority direct action the scan application determines whether network communication is required to invoke the direct action at a step . For example the scan application may determine whether invoking the direct action includes invoking only functions of applications stored on the client device or if invoking the direct action includes invoking one or more functions of applications residing on one or more other devices.

If the scan application determines that network communication is not required to invoke the direct action the scan application invokes the direct action at a step . If the scan application determines that network communication is required to invoke the direct action the scan application determines whether the direct action can be performed using cellular network communication at a step . In some examples determining whether a direct action can be invoked using cellular network communication includes determining whether the direct action can be invoked by initiating a phone call or sending a message e.g. SMS message over a cellular network. As an example a direct action associated with a poll may allow an end user to register a vote in the poll using an SMS message.

If the scan application determines that the direct action cannot be invoked using cellular network communication at the step the scan application stores the identifier and optionally notifies the end user that the identifier has been stored as described. If the application determines that the direct action can be invoked using cellular network communication the scan application determines whether cellular network communication is available at a step . If cellular network communication is not available the scan application stores the identifier and optionally notifies the end user that the identifier has been stored at the step . If cellular network communication is available the scan application invokes the direct action using cellular network communication at a step .

In some examples a user may interface with the QAC engine to provide e.g. generate manage and or configure one or more codes. Briefly a user may establish a user account and generate one or more codes that may be associated with the account. Thereafter the user may access the user account to modify or delete the codes.

The request may include an indication of one or more direct actions to be associated with the code. For example the request may indicate a direct action for liking a page on Facebook. The request further may include an indication that the code is to include one or more features. Such features include graphics text schemes e.g. color scheme pattern scheme designs and one or more types of metadata. In one example a user may identify a particular phrase to be included in the code as text. In another example a user may indicate that a signaling element e.g. frame of the code is to have a substantially square shape and include at least a portion of the machine readable element of the code. In yet another example a user may indicate that the machine readable element of the code is to include an indication of an entity e.g. user associated with the code. In some examples the user may provide a request for a code using a web based interface or a scan application such as a scan application . Accordingly users may interface with the QAC engine using any web capable device or any other device configured to support a web browser or the scan application .

Once a request for a code has been received at a step the QAC engine may generate the code in accordance with the request provided at the step . The QAC engine may generate a code such that the machine readable element includes an identifier of the code and further includes any particular features identified in the request. The identifier may be chosen randomly in some examples. Once the code has been generated the code may be provided to the client device for instance by displaying the code on a display of the client device . Additionally or alternatively the QAC engine may provide the code to a user of the client device the user associated with the authenticated user account in a file format e.g. bitmap JPEG PDF via an email or SMS message.

At a step the QAC engine may store the code provided at the step . The code may be stored in the storage device and in particular may be stored in one or more databases of the storage device . The QAC engine may further store instructions for invoking a direct action e.g. invoking one or more functions corresponding to the direct action associated with the code and or categorize the code as one or more code types. A code may for instance be categorized as a free freemium or premium code.

In addition to codes and instructions for invoking direct actions associated with codes user data may be stored in the storage device . The user data may include a profile for each of any number of users describing one or more actions taken by users. A profile may for instance specify any interactions of an end user with a social media platform and or an address used for a delivery. A profile further may specify any scanned codes obtained by an end user direct actions invoked in response to obtaining the scanned codes locations at which the scanned codes were obtained and times at which the scanned codes were obtained. User data may include data provided to the QAC engine from one or more scan applications and data included in one or more user accounts.

In some examples user data including profiles may be analyzed by the QAC engine or by a third party analytics service e.g. Google Analytics . User data may be analyzed for instance to track the number of times a code is scanned times at which a code is scanned a frequency at which a code is scanned and or any demographic information about end users that have scanned the code.

In some examples a user may modify or delete an existing code associated with a user account. A user may change a direct action associated with a code. In response the QAC engine may update the instructions associated with the direct action such that invoking the direct action on a client device thereafter results in invoking the direct action using the updated instructions. In some examples updating in this manner may result in updating the one or more functions corresponding to the direct action. In this manner association of a code and a direct action may be dynamic. In one example a direct action for initiating a phone call may be updated. A user may for instance update the phone number associated with the direct action in the event that a user prefers invoking the direct action associated with the code result in a device calling the updated number. In another example a user may disable a code such that no direct action is associated with the code.

In some examples a user may associate multiple direct actions with a code. Accordingly multiple sets of instructions may be associated with a code and in response to a request for instructions associated with the code the QAC engine may provide one or more sets of the instructions. The one or more sets of instructions provided by the QAC engine may be based on one or more characteristics of the code and or a client device . In one example which instructions are returned which direct action a device will perform is based on a type of the client device . A client device comprising a tablet may receive a first set of instructions a client device comprising a mobile phone may receive a second set of instructions and camera enabled glasses e.g. Google glass may receive a third set of instructions. In another example which instructions are returned is based on a time of a scan. A direct action to download a particular video for instance as part of a promotion may only be available during a particular period of time e.g. 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. or similarly may only be free to an end user during a period of time and otherwise require payment. In yet another example which instructions are returned is based on a location of a scan. As part of a treasure hunt codes may be assigned different direct actions based on the location of the codes. In this manner a promotion for the treasure hunt may be advertised in multiple locations with a single location awarding a prize and other locations providing clues. In yet another example which instructions are provided is based on a direction in which a scan takes place. Obtaining a scanned code while facing north may result in a device receiving a first set of instructions and invoking a first direct action and obtaining a scanned code while facing south may result in a device receiving a second set of instructions and invoking a second direct action . In yet another example which instructions are returned is based on a form or shape of a signaling element of the code. Scanning a square signaling element may result in a device receiving a first set of instructions and invoking a first direct action and scanning a signaling element may result in a device receiving a second set of instructions and invoking a second direct action . In yet another example a machine readable element may comprise a three dimensional barcode and which instructions are returned is based on the angle of a scanned code e.g. at which the code is scanned . In other examples which instructions are returned is based on ambient temperature heart rate of an end user speed of travel of an end user altitude presence or proximity of one or more other end users proximity of the client device to one or more other devices or any combination or sub combination thereof.

As described in instances in which a direct action is determined to be a priority direct action a scan application may cause a device to invoke a direct action without receiving further instructions. However because in some instances the direct action associated with a code may be updated in some examples the scan application may determine e.g. periodically whether one or more priority direct actions are associated with current instructions or whether one or more updates are necessary.

In some examples prior to storing the code at the step the QAC engine may compare the code to one or more other codes stored in the storage device . If the code is not sufficiently different than the other codes the QAC engine may inform the user that one or more parameters of the code must be adjusted to satisfy a threshold amount of contrast and allow storage of the code in the storage device . For example a user may be required to change a graphic of the code due to similarity to one or more other codes.

The human readable element of the QAC may comprise any text graphic or other visual object that provides information to an end user. Accordingly the human readable element may allow an end user to readily determine that he or she is viewing a code and or determine the direct action included in the machine readable element .

The machine readable element may be any known machine readable representation of data such as a barcode e.g. 2D or 3D barcode or waveform e.g. processing waveform that provides information to a device in response to being scanned and or analyzed. In some examples the machine readable element may be scanned using a scan application such as the scan application of and the scan application may identify and invoke direct actions associated with the code automatically. Herein invoking direct actions automatically includes invoking direct actions associated with a code without invoking e.g. performing an interstitial step e.g. accessing an interstitial web page or diverting a function to a particular service. As described direct actions may be invoked on the client device and or any number of other devices. In some examples the machine readable element may provide metadata about the code. The metadata may for instance specify an entity associated with the code and or one or more data error checking mechanisms such as a checksum.

In some examples the machine readable element may include one or more mechanisms for identifying a location of the machine readable element within the quick access code . By way of example the machine readable element may include one or more reference pixels that may be used by a scan application to identify e.g. locate a boundary of a machine readable element .

The signaling element is used by a scan application to identify a code. The scan application may identify the signaling element for instance based on a shape and or orientation of the signaling element and in response identify a location of the machine readable element as described. The signaling element may include an orientation element that in some examples may render a design of the signaling element unique such that the signaling element is recognizable by the scan application. Additionally or alternatively the orientation element further may render the shape of the signaling element vertically and or horizontally asymmetric such that the quick access code may be scanned with a correct orientation. In some examples the signaling element may circumscribe one or more of a portion of the human readable element or a portion of the machine readable element . The signaling element further may have parallel sides or any other specified shape to allow the scan application to scan the code with correction for perspective when the code is scanned at an angle.

As illustrated the signaling element may be implemented as a frame separate from the human readable element and the machine readable element . It will be appreciated however that the signaling element may include one or more of the human readable element or machine readable element or may be separate from a code e.g. adjacent to code . The signaling element may include a portion or the entirety of a human readable element or a machine readable element . In one example a portion of a machine readable element may be included in the signaling element and a portion of the machine readable element may be separate from the signaling element . The multiple portions of the machine readable element may be associated with a same direct action or each portion of the machine readable element may be associated with a respective direct action. As an example a first portion may be associated with playback of a video and a second portion may be associated with playback of audio for playback during playback of the video.

In some examples a scan application may periodically access a camera application of a client device to determine whether a code may be scanned. In some examples the scan application may determine whether a code may be scanned based on whether an image provided by the camera application includes a signaling element. In other examples a scan application may determine whether a code may be scanned based on whether an image provided by the camera application includes a machine readable element.

The quick access code may be implemented using any number of colors and or schemes. The machine readable element may for instance be black and white while the human readable element and or the signaling element may be implemented in red e.g. to attract attention . In some examples colors of one or more portions of the quick access code may be inverted without altering information included e.g. encoded in the machine readable element . For example in a first instance the quick access code may be implemented on a black background and the machine readable element may be implemented as a white on black machine readable element and in a second instance the quick access code may be implemented on a white background and the machine readable element may be implemented as a black on white machine readable element.

As shown in in some example codes one or more of a human readable element and a machine readable element may be circumscribed by a signaling element and as shown in in other example codes both a human readable element and a machine readable element may not be circumscribed by a signaling element. It will be appreciated that in other examples one or more of a human readable element or a machine readable element may be partially circumscribed and or located outside of a signaling element. In yet other example codes a signaling element may comprise one or more of a human readable element or a machine readable element. The code of for instance includes a signaling element that comprises the machine readable element .

Generally signaling elements may have any size shape or pattern. Some example signaling elements such as those illustrated in have a substantially square or rectangular shape and may include an orientation element as described. Other example signaling elements such as the code illustrated in have a substantially circular shape and may include an orientation element . In yet other example codes a signaling element may have a substantially triangular shape or any other geometric shape and may include an orientation element having any geometric shape or may not include an orientation element.

The data processing system may include a display controller and display device that can provide a visual user interface for a user. In some examples this interface may include a graphical user interface GUI . The data processing system may also include one or more wireless transceivers to communicate with one or more other data processing systems. A wireless transceiver may be a WLAN transceiver e.g. WiFi an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver and or a wireless cellular telephony transceiver. The data processing system further can include one or more communications ports to communicate with another data processing system. The communications port may be a USB port Firewire port Bluetooth interface a docking port or any other communications port known in the art.

In some examples the data processing system includes one or more input devices configured to receive input from a user. These input devices may include a pointing device e.g. mouse keypad keyboard touch panel and or multi touch panel overlaid and integrated with a display device such as a display device . The data processing system can also include an optional input output device which may be a connector for a dock. It will be appreciated that one or more buses not shown may be used to interconnect the various components of the data processing system as is well known in the art. It will be appreciated that in some examples one or more additional components not shown in may also be part of the data processing system and that in some examples one or more components shown in may be omitted from the data processing system .

In some examples the data processing system shown in may be a handheld computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with PDA like functionality a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone a media player a game or entertainment device and or any combination or sub combination of the same e.g. a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone an embedded device or other consumer electronic devices . In other embodiments the data processing system may be a network computer or an embedded processing device configured to operate with one or more other devices or other types of data processing systems which have fewer or more components than those shown in .

Although only certain exemplary embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of these techniques. For example aspects of embodiments disclosed above can be combined in other combinations to form additional embodiments. Similarly aspects of embodiments disclosed above can be excluded. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure.

