---

title: Techniques for configuring a multimedia system
abstract: In one embodiment, a technique is provided to configure a home multimedia system. Software executing on a controller or other device access component profiles describing attributes of components, one or more zone configurations that indicate components that are present in one or more zones, and one or more connection configurations that indicates how components that are present in the one or more zones are interconnected. The software applies a set of predefined service rules to the data structures to generate workflows for possible services, wherein each service rule defines one or more components and one or more interactions required for providing a corresponding service, and each workflow indicates how one or more of the components that are present in the one or more zones interact to provide a service. Executable forms of the workflows are generated, and executed to provide services to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513615&OS=09513615&RS=09513615
owner: Savant Systems, LLC
number: 09513615
owner_city: Hyannis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151002
---
This application is a continuation of U.S patent application Ser. No. 11 314 112 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 153 125 entitled PROGRAMMABLE MULTIMEDIA CONTROLLER WITH PROGRAMMABLE SERVICES filed on Dec. 20 2005 by Robert P. Madonna et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 314 664 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR A PROGRAMMABLE MULTIMEDIA CONTROLLER filed on Dec. 20 2005 by Robert P. Madonna et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety

The present invention relates generally to the fields of multimedia and communications and more specifically to a programmable multimedia controller for home commercial professional audio or video broadcast or film studio security automation or other use which is capable of interfacing with controlling and managing a wide variety of audio video telecommunications data communications and other devices.

Commercial offerings of consumer electronic devices have expanded dramatically in response to the falling cost of electronic hardware and introduction of new media. For example within only a few years compact disk CD technology largely displaced vinyl records and magnetic tapes as the music recording medium of choice but was in turn displaced by MP3 technology. Similarly digital versatile disk DVD technology largely displaced videotape as the video recording medium of choice while digital cameras have effectively replaced film cameras. The advent of new technologies and media and the corresponding consumer demand for products based on the latest advances drives manufacturers to rapidly introduce new products. As a result an overwhelming number of product types and models permeate the market.

One long standing problem which persists for many consumers is the complexity involved with interconnecting various electronic devices which are typically sold individually and not as parts of an integrated system. For example a consumer may acquire an audio receiver cable TV box television DVD player and surround sound system made by different manufacturers. The basic problem of interconnecting a group of components by a series of cables is challenging for many users let alone sufficiently understanding the various modes of operations and features which if properly used will allow the components to work best together and produce the most enjoyable entertainment experiences.

Another long standing problem with most if not all previous approaches to integrating disparate components is that some type of central controller is used which operates on software written in a high level computer language. The use of a high level computer language presents several difficulties. First it is all but certain that the manufacturer will not make the source code available to the user thus effectively preventing a user who wished to customize a system from doing so. Second even if the source code is made available the overwhelming majority of users do not have the technical expertise time or inclination to write or modify source code. Third the introduction of new devices by manufacturers almost certainly necessitate that the source code be modified in order to make the central controller compatible with such devices.

Yet another long standing problem is an absence of any widely adopted industry standard regarding control interfaces for consumer electronics devices. Manufacturers have incorporated varying communication protocols most of which are proprietary in nature do not conform to any standard and are implemented with extremely detailed source code. This absence of standards greatly complicates the problem of how to integrate and centrally control a wide variety of consumer electronics devices such that they work together and are manageable by an average user who does not possess substantial technical expertise.

In brief summary the present invention provides a programmable multimedia controller with programmable services. The multimedia controller is based on a general purpose computer which controls a specialized embedded computer system. The general purpose computer may be matched with a second general purpose computer to provide redundancy. The multimedia controller is capable of interfacing with controlling or managing a wide variety of audio video telecommunications data communications or other devices.

The multimedia controller includes a programming environment for creating services or user experiences that may incorporate features or functionalities of several devices that are conventionally operated as separate standalone devices. Such services may range in complexity from simple control functions to multimedia experiences that combine high performance audio and video with the graphics capability of a general purpose computer web based services and telecommunications.

Services may be implemented according to various zones within a larger physical space. For example a user may specify that certain services are available in the family room of a home while different services are available in the kitchen depending upon the components that are available in each room or user preferences. Services may also be implemented on a per user basis in conjunction with a user profile which specifies preferences restrictions e.g. parental controls and the like.

The programming environment includes a library of component profiles. Component profiles may be implemented in a number of ways based upon desired attributes of the underlying data structures. In a preferred embodiment a component profile is implemented as an Extensible Markup Language XML file which describes certain attributes of a component such as a DVD player television amplifier or any other type of component that is capable of interfacing with the system of the present invention. A component profile typically describes at least some of the physical characteristics of the component e.g. the input output connectors located on the back of the component the configuration of the component e.g. all possible types of modules that may be present in the slots or bays of a modular receiver the set of commands that the component recognizes e.g. power on power off open disk tray as well as the functions that the component is capable of performing e.g. play pause stop .

Use of XML files for component profiles as well as other aspects of the present invention discussed below provides several advantages including particularly the ease with which component profiles may be created for new components introduced into the market in the future. Further the use of XML makes the process of customization through editing existing component profiles extremely simple as compared to writing or modifying source code. Accordingly the present invention includes a programming tool to assist installers or users who wish to create custom component profiles or modify prom files that are available in the library.

The library of component profiles may be stored on a hard disk drive or other storage media that is physically part of the system or otherwise available to the system by way of a network or other communication link. One or more component profiles or even the entire library may be acquired or updated as necessary by accessing a designated website over the internet and downloading the appropriate files. Updating of the component profile library may be implemented as an automatic process or as one in which a user initiates or controls the process.

Using the library of component profiles the present invention allows a user to interactively describe how a particular installation is actually wired through an on screen tutorial. In the case of a new installation the present invention may make recommendations to the user as to how to wire an installation. Once wiring is established the present invention may advise the user on what services are available.

The programming environment also includes zone configurations which are also preferably implemented as XML files. A zone configuration is essentially a description which includes an identification of what components are present in a particular room or other space which modules are actually present within a modular component how those components are interconnected and a specification of what type s of controller is available to the user in that space.

The programming environment also includes connection configurations again preferably implemented as XML files. A connection configuration is essentially a file that stores the installation wiring information referred to above and is used in determining what services can be supported by a particular installation.

The programming environment also includes service rules. A service rule preferably implemented as an XML file essentially defines what components are needed to implement a particular service and how a particular component or group of components will interact to provide the service.

Within the programming environment component profiles zone configurations connection configuration and service rules are all provided as inputs to a configuration compiler which produces a service implementation also preferably implemented as an XML file. The service implementation is in turn supplied as an input to a workflow generator which produces both an executable form of the service implementation as well as a graphical representation of the executable form. The graphical representation advantageously provides a convenient and easy to use format that may be displayed and edited using the general purpose computer. By editing the graphical representation a user is effectively modifying the corresponding executable form directly. In this fashion a user with little or no programming expertise is able to create and customize programmable services as desired.

Another aspect of the present invention which also enhances the ease of use and programmability of the system is a user interface which in a preferred embodiment is based upon the functionality of a DVD player coupled with widely available DVD authoring software. In this aspect the present invention leverages two important considerations a DVD player i.e. the functionality of a DVD player as embodied in a video decoder chip is very inexpensive and users are generally very familiar with how to operate a DVD player to select items from displayed menus. Accordingly a user interface which is very inexpensive yet is readily understood by a large majority of users may be implemented using commercially available DVD authoring software. Such software may be used to create videos which when played present information menus or choices with which the user interacts using a simple remote control portable DVD player touchscreen or any of a number of other control devices supported by the present invention. As part of system configuration and setup one such video may be used to gather necessary information to create one or more user profiles.

Another aspect of the present invention is its expandability. Multiple multimedia controllers may be interconnected to form a larger system in which any input audio or video signal one controller may be switched to any output on the same or different controller. In such an expanded system different controllers may be programmed to provide different services. For example one controller may be programmed to provide video related services while a second interconnected controller may be programmed to provide audio related services.

The services which the present invention may implement are diverse and vast in number. For example assume that a user has the system of the present invention interfaced with a DVD player a television and a telephone line. With those components a simple service may be defined such that when a user is watching a DVD movie and receives a phone call the system of the present invention will automatically command the DVD player to pause and cause the caller ID to be displayed in the video frame on the television. As a result the user may decide whether to answer the call without physically going to the phone or manually controlling the DVD player. If the call is answered the DVD player will remain paused. If the call is not answered or is answered and then finished the movie will automatically resume playing after a period time that may be programmed by the user.

Another example of a simple service that the present invention may implement involves the combination of a television and access to the internet. The present invention may be used to access information from the internet such as stock quotes sports scores or weather information and display that information anywhere in a video image on the TV screen or alternatively as a ticker that moves along the bottom of the image as the user watches a desired TV program.

Yet another example of a service that the present invention may implement involves the combination of a television and a wireless cell phone . The present invention may be used to detect the arrival of a short message service SMS text message by the cell phone and display the text message as an overlay on the image displayed by the television. In this fashion the user is able to view the text message without handling the cell phone.

In the illustrative embodiment the programmable multimedia controller is connected to a wide range of audio video components for example a compact disk CD player a digital versatile disc DVD player an audio video receiver a television a personal media player speakers a microphone and or a video camera . The programmable multimedia controller may also be connected to telephony devices such as a telephone network and telephone handsets . The telephone network may be a publicly switched telephone network PSTN an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or other communications network.

In addition the programmable multimedia controller may intercommunicate with variety of light and or home automation systems . These devices may operate via the X10 protocol developed by Pico Electronics the INSTEON protocol developed by SmartHome Inc the CEBus standard managed by the CEBus Industry Council or another well known home automation or control protocol. Similarly the controller may be connected to motor and or relay operated devices that may include for example a heating ventilation and air conditioning system HVAC system an irrigation system an automatic shade or blind system an electronic door lock or other types of devices.

A computer network such as the Internet is connected to the multimedia controller. In addition a personal computer PC video game systems home recording equipment or other devices may also be connected. Further one or more remote control units may be provided to manage the controller s functionality and or to control devices connected to the controller. Such remote control units may be interconnected to the controller via a wired network connection an infra red link a radio frequency link a Bluetooth link a ZigBee link or another appropriate data connection.

In addition to providing interconnection to a wide variety of devices the programmable multimedia controller is able to combine synthesize and otherwise processes various data types to implement an integrated multimedia solution for a user.

To facilitate the above described interconnections and processing the programmable multimedia controller may be arranged in a modular manner. For example in one embodiment the programmable multimedia controller is arranged to have twelve separate input and output modules each having a number of connection ports. The input and output modules are inserted into slots or module bays of the programmable multimedia controller . The modules interface with a mid plane that provides connection to the rest of the system. By embracing a modular approach a user is allowed to select the specific modules desired and the system may be customized to fit a particular application. In addition entry level pricing may be reduced by allowing a user to purchase a base configuration with limited capabilities and then add to the system by purchasing addition modules. Several examples of modules are discussed below in reference to . It is expressly contemplated that a wide variety of additional modules may be provided and accordingly this disclosure should be interpreted to embrace such other possible configurations. It is also contemplated that several programmable multimedia controllers may be interconnected to create a larger system in effect implementing a modular type solution at the controller level. Further details regarding such interconnection and expansion may be found below in reference to .

A mid plane interconnects the switches and other devices to a variety of input and output modules such as for example Digital Video Input Modules with HDMI Video Output Modules with HDMI Digital Audio Input Modules and Digital Audio Output Modules . The mid plane is further coupled to an Ethernet switch that permits switching of 10BaseT 100BaseT or Gigabyte Ethernet signals. The Ethernet switch interconnects Ethernet ports and a processing subsystem to the microcontroller . In one embodiment the processing subsystem includes a plurality of small form factor general purpose personal computers that provide redundant operation and or load balancing. In some embodiments the processing subsystem may include one or more storage devices external to the personal computers to provide expanded storage capacity for example to store digital media. Further discussion of the various embodiments of the data processing subsystem may be found below in reference to .

Also a number of Universal Serial Bus USB ports are interconnected to a USB hub for interconnection to the processing subsystem . A memory card interface may also be connected to the USB hub . The interface accepts one or more well known memory card formats for example CompactFlash cards Memory Stick cards Secure Digital SD cards or other formats. A USB switch is employed to switch USB links among the multiple processing components that may be present. In a similar manner a number of IEEE 1394 FireWire ports are interconnected to an IEEE 1394 hub and to an IEEE 1394 switch .

The microcontroller is further connected to a Serial Peripheral Interface SPI and Inter Integrated Circuit IC distribution circuit which provides a serial communication interface to relatively low data transfer rate devices. The SPI IC controller is connected to the mid plane connector and thereby provides control commands from the microcontroller to the modules and other devices in the programmable multimedia controller . Further connections from SPI IC controller are provided to devices such as a fan controller a temperature sensor and a power manager circuit which manage the thermal characteristics of the system and prevent overheating.

The microcontroller is also connected to Infra Red IR interface an RS232 interface and an RF interface that permit interconnection with external devices. Such interaction permits programmable multimedia controller to control external devices. In addition the interfaces may receive control signals that control the operation of the programmable multimedia controller itself. It is expressly contemplated that various other interfaces including WI FI Bluetooth ZigBee and other wired and wireless interfaces may be used with the multimedia controller . Further discussion of such interfaces may be found below in reference to .

In addition an Auxiliary Audio Video Port is provided for interconnecting one or more video game systems camcorders computers karaoke machines or other devices. A telephone interface is provided for connecting to the public switch telephone network or to a private network and to telephone handsets. Further a device control interface is provided to communicate with lighting home automation and motor and or relay operated devices. As discussed in more detail below an expansion port is provided for linking several programmable multimedia controllers together to form an expanded system. Finally a front panel display permits presentation of status configuration and or other information to a user. In one embodiment the from panel can display video data originating from any input source connected to the system such that one may preview video content on the display. In another embodiment the front panel display includes a touch sensitive screen and a user may enter control selections by selecting icons on the screen.

System control plane includes the functionalities of a system manager a system launcher a redundancy manager a web server a touchscreen PDA server a remote system access manager and system logs .

UI plane shares a UI server with service plane . Service plane includes the functionalities of a service controller which itself includes an automator runtime . Service plane also includes the functionalities of a Mac display controller an on screen display OSD application third party applications Mac applications and an audio video component controller . Through automator runtime service controller is capable of controlling Mac applications including iTunes iChat iPhoto and iDVD that support Applescript which enables application to application control. Similarly through automator runtime service controller is capable of controlling other third party applications which support AppleScript.

Media plane includes the functionality of Mac input output I O in all supported formats i.e. DVI Ethernet FireWire USB etc. . Component control plane includes the functionality of controlling audio video components .

Configuration setup plane includes the functionalities of a user configuration application a configuration compiler a user services control application a workflow generator and a service control workflow browser search engine customization application . Configuration setup plane also passes several types of information to UI plane and service plane including system configuration automator workflow services definitions component profiles and Mac settings . As described in detail below in connection with in a preferred embodiment XML files are used to represent system configuration automator workflow services definitions and component profiles .

The overall functional responsibilities of the various planes shown in will now be discussed. In general system control plane has responsibility for high level system tasks and processes. Redundancy manager has overall responsibility for redundancy arrangements which may be advantageously used in multimedia controller . For example processing subsystem may be implemented using two Mac Mini computers as noted above. The use of two computers provides both load sharing capability as well as one level of redundancy in the even that one of the computers fails.

In order for the two computers to work properly when both are operating properly as well as when one of them fails data stored on the hard drives normally accessed by only one of the computers must be synchronized. This is preferably done using rsync a capability which is part of the OS X operating system. In addition one of the computers will be designated as the primary computer based on an arbitration that takes place upon power up of the multimedia controller . The secondary computer operates in a subordinate role to the primary computer.

One embodiment of an arbitration begins with each computer advertising its presence using the Bonjour Name Service. When one computer discovers another computer it will connect to the other computer. If both computers are candidates to become primary then the one with the higher media access control Ethernet address will become primary. Each computer will keep open a connection and ping one another. If the primary computer fails to respond to pings then the secondary computer will assume the role of primary computer.

The primary computer is responsible for allocating streaming resources between itself and the secondary computer. Insertable removable media e.g. FireWire or USB drives cameras iPods are connected to the primary computer. Data collected by the primary computer from such devices may be passed to the secondary computer by shared mountpoints or another technique.

Control API access has responsibility for an API through which multimedia controller may be controlled by a user who may choose to use a web enabled device an RF remote control type device a touchscreen a PDA or cell phone. UI plane has functional responsibility for a user interface to multimedia controller . Service plane has functional responsibility for implementing services as described above. Automator runtime is responsible for receiving requests or commands from users and mapping them to a workflow for a particular service.

Media plane has functional responsibility for Mac I O as well as the other internal and external communications interfaces supported by multimedia controller . Component control plane has functional responsibility for controlling the operations of audio or video components which may be interfaced with multimedia controller . Configuration setup plane has functional responsibility for enabling users to configure multimedia controller to select create or modify services and to select create or modify component profiles.

With reference now to the logical relationships among certain functional units depicted in are shown in greater detail. A collection of data which is stored internally to the system of multimedia controller or obtained from an external source e.g. a designated website having a library of component profiles is denoted by reference number . Data collection includes component profiles media types and service rules preferably in the form of XML files as discussed above. A second collection of data is provided by the user and is denoted by reference number . Data collection includes connection configuration and system configuration information again preferably in the form of XML files.

A user interacting with user configuration application which is preferably implemented in the form of an on screen interactive tutorial will generate the data contained in data collection . The tutorial may be displayed on front panel display or on a television or other display which connected to multimedia controller . In addition by using a microphone and speakers connected to the multimedia controller and utilizing the speech recognition synthesis capabilities which are part of the Mac OS X operating system the on screen tutorial may be enhanced for visually impaired users. In this fashion instead of on screen prompts speech synthesized questions may be asked of the user who simply speaks the answers.

Alternatively user configuration application may be implemented in the form of an offline program that may be run on Mac computer or other device that is not necessarily connected to multimedia controller . This implementation would be advantageous for professional installers who wish to prepare a configuration in advance of physical installation of the controller.

User configuration application may be used to create user profiles discussed above. User profiles enable each user to personalize his or her system settings styles colors and the like for the on screen display that multimedia controller will present to that user. User profiles may also include service restrictions. For example a user profile for a child may contain information which blocks access to adult videos or cable channels. A user profile may be implemented in the form of an XML file or other data file or structure which is compatible with other aspects of the system which require access to it.

A user interacting with a component profile tool will effectively select component profiles from those available in the library of multimedia controller direct the controller to download a needed profile from a designated website or other source or possibly modify an existing profile or create an entirely new profile as desired.

Component profile tool may also include functionality for learning the IR or RF commands transmitted by a conventional remote control. Thus a user who is creating a new component profile for a component that has a remote control may rapidly teach the remote control s command set to component profile tool .

Component profile tool may also work in conjunction with an optical wand not shown by which a user may scan a manufacturer s bar codes located on a component chassis or possibly the component s packaging. Once a bar code is scanned component profile tool attempts to find a match in the component profile library or seek the appropriate profile of a designated website or other source.

Data collection may also include application profiles also preferably implemented as XML files for controlling third party applications e.g. iTunes iChat as part of a service. In a preferred embodiment an application profile may be implemented as essentially a list of actions that are executed by running an Applescript. However application profiles like the other constructs described herein may be implemented in a variety of other ways.

Data collections and are supplied as inputs to configuration compiler which in response generates a service implementation. The service implementation is in turn supplied as an input to services definition . User services control application enables a user to review implemented services and to modify or remove them. Services definition provides service definitions to service controller and to workflow generator . Service definitions include specifications of what zones services and components are in the system configuration. Service controller responds to the service definitions by creating internal states and objects to manage the zones services and components. Service controller also uses the service definitions to help identify what automator workflows sets will exist.

Using information contained in the services definitions workflow generator generates an initial default workflow set in both an executable form and a graphical representation. Each zone and service in the service definitions has a workflow implemented for each request that the service implements. The executable form of the workflow is executed by service controller .

Workflow browser search engine customization application may be used to display inspect and modify the graphical representations of workflows. When a user edits a graphical representation the corresponding executable form is automatically changed in accordance with the user s edits. Consequently a user is able to easily work with and customize workflows in a graphical programming environment while avoiding the complex logic and minutia of the underlying executables. In addition speech recognition synthesis capabilities which are part of the Mac OS X operating system may be utilized in conjunction with or as an alternative to the workflow browser search engine customization application . Thus as an aid to the visually impaired 

Section specifies several possible status conditions that the DVD player may report standby playback pause stop and unknown. Similarly section specifies several media types that the DVD player may report has been loaded into the player DVD VCD CD data or unknown. Any of these possible reports may be mapped into a given service and used as a triggering event for some action by multimedia controller . For example a report that a DVD has been loaded into the player could cause the controller to turn the power on to the television or other specified display as well as the surround sound system in anticipation of a user wanting to view the DVD. Section specifies the input output labels that are physically present on the DVD player s chassis.

Section specifies the command which when sent to the DVD player s RS232 port will turn the power on. Conversely section specifies the command which turns the power off. Section specifies the command to play. The remaining sections of specify other RS232 commands to which this particular DVD player will respond.

The configuration shows that the receiver has assigned an assignable input name DVD to correspond to inputs named Stereo IN for audio and Component IN for video. Section specifies the format of an input defined by the receiver called Video . The configuration shows that the user has assigned the Video input to be mapped to inputs named Stereo IN for audio and Component IN for video.

Section specifies that a component video output coaxial connector on the Integra receive is connected to a component video input coaxial connector on an NEC plasma TV. Section specifies that a set of surround sound 7.1 speakers are connected to the Speakers A terminals on the Integra receiver. Section specifies that the Integra receiver has an RS232 port through which it may be controlled. Similarly section specifies that the NEC plasma TV has an RS232 port through which it may be controlled.

Section specifies two universal requests namely power on and power off. Section specifies volume control requests including mute on and mute off. Section specifies a series of requests relating to surround sound processing options. Section specifies request relating to radio control including frequency selection preset selection display and scan.

In the panels numbered represent discrete actions which are to be executed consecutively. For example in panel the specified action is to turn on the power to an Integra model DPS 5.5 DVD player. In panel the specified action is to turn on the power to an Integra model DTR 10.5 receiver.

Once device is registered subsequently a user presses a button e.g. increase the volume on the TV which causes a command indication to be issued to user interface server . Command indication as well as command request command confirmation and command indication would in general be constructed in accordance with the message structure shown in .

User interface server recognizes command indication as a control command or request and responds by issuing a send command message to service controller which reacts according to the applicable service implementation to raise the volume on the TV.

In the case of an interactive command e.g. a user wishes to view album cover art which requires data from user interface server a command request is issued by device to user interface server . User interface server replies with a command confirmation which returns the requested data to device .

In the case of an unsolicited interactive command e.g. a user loads a DVD into a DVD player or disconnects a component user interface server simply issues a command indication to inform device of the event.

We will now describe representative examples of services that may be implemented using the present invention. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the following description is by way of example only and that the present invention is capable of providing far more services both in type and quantity beyond the specific examples described here.

A service which provides videoconferencing including multiparty videoconferences may be created and used with the present invention. Video signals and audio signals for a video conference may originate from either the internet PSTN or another source which is interfaced with multimedia controller . If desired video signals may be carried over the internet while corresponding audio signals are carried by the PSTN. This arrangement provides superior audio quality as compared to a videoconference in which the audio signals are carried over the internet.

Another service which the present invention supports is video chat including multiparty chat. Such a service may be based in whole or in part on iChat or similar functionality available from third parties.

Another service which the present invention supports is video mail which may be thought of as email in which the content is video as opposed to text or graphics.

Another service which the present invention supports is video with integrated telephony features. Such a service provides a picture in picture display on a television or other display device for showing caller ID or other information relating to an incoming call. Such as service may also provide display of text messages or provide unified messaging through a single in box in which a user would receive email video mail voicemail fax etc.

Another service which the present invention supports is video on demand VoD or video podcasting in either high definition or standard definition.

Another service which the present invention supports is video processing including one more of the following functions color space conversion flexible input capture size adjustable gamma conversion keying motion processing zoning diagonal compensation multiple live inputs 3D noise reduction alpha blending intelligent image sharpening seamless switching video upconversion video scaling and resizing HD DVD recording playback and editing DVD playback DVR PVR capabilities MPEG decoding encoding video transcoding and surround sound decoding i.e. Dolby and DTS .

In general any of the foregoing or other video related services may be created to work with any of the major digital video encoding standards including MPEG 2 MPEG 4 AVC DivX JPEG BMP and PNG for images.

A service which provides instant messaging is supported by the present invention. Such a service may also provide short message service SMS functionality.

A service which the present invention supports provides one or more of the following radio functions internet radio high definition radio FM AM and satellite radio.

Another service which the present invention supports is a digital jukebox including the ability to create smart playlists based on user preferences. Such a service may include organization and display of metadata relating to artist and title as well as automatic retrieval of such metadata over the internet e.g. Gracenote MusicID or other service .

Another service which the present invention supports is karaoke which may be implemented with either wired or wireless microphones.

Another service which the present supports is speech recognition synthesis the basic functionality of which is part of the Mac OS X operating system. Such a service may also be based in whole or in part on third party speech recognition synthesis which is compatible with multimedia controller .

A service which the present invention supports is interactive games including on line games and whole house games.

A service which the present invention supports is security including remote surveillance over the internet intelligent security alarm system control lighting control HVAC control sprinkler system control and use of DVR PVR for security video recording.

The present invention also supports a service for remote monitoring and detection of a user s health as well as telemedicine.

As discussed in detail above the present invention provides substantial assistance and convenience to a user in connection with configuration of multimedia controller through an on screen tutorial and the like. Once a system is initially configured and running the present invention supports a service in which whenever a computer or other device which may contain digital media is connected to multimedia controller designated folders or areas of that computer or device may be scanned for new media not already available to the controller. Any new media may be automatically downloaded to the controller and stored according to a library or other organization specified by the user.

Similarly the present invention supports a service in which multimedia controller is always on always monitoring and automatically discovers and identifies new components when they are interfaced with the controller. In addition once a new component is identified such a service may advise the user through on screen information e mail or other media that the new component is recognized and further advise as to new services which the user may wish to activate to make use of the component.

Another service which the present invention supports is control of live and recorded TV including time shifting.

Another service which the present invention supports is remote synchronization of portable devices including portable audio and video players PDAs computers and the like. Similarly the present invention supports a service in which remote content is scheduled for retrieval and storage on DVR PVR.

The present invention supports a service for recording audio either live or from another source. Such a service may be based in whole or in part on GarageBand from Apple Computer.

Another service which the present invention supports is integration with music purchasing services including iTunes music store Napster ToGo Yahoo Music and the like.

Another service which the present invention supports is a DJ mixing platform including one or more of the following functions automatic mixing one click beat matching seamless looping automatic BPM counter vinyl simulation including scratch pitch and reverse play separate headphones output and song pre listening and mix recording.

Another service which the present invention supports is an e music studio including one or more of the following functions route map filter convert display input and output MIDI messages in realtime.

Another service which the present invention supports is an interactive on screen display chord book generator 

Another service which the present invention supports is integrated musician tools including one or more of the following capabilities guitar tuner chromatic and tonal alternate tuning editor chord library tablature organizer jam machine and metronome. Such a service may also include music collaboration and playing which may be based in whole or in part on eJamming or other third party software.

The present invention supports a service which provides a digital media hub with integrated digital media adapter. Such a service may also provide a digital media server capable of serving video audio digital photos data voice and supporting major audio compression techniques including MP3 AAC Apple Lossless Compression FLAC Ogg Vorbis and Monkey s Audio

The present invention supports a service which provides one or more of the following functionalities whole house audio including multi zone whole house audio distribution whole house video including multi zone whole house video distribution whole house games including multi zone whole house gaming distribution and whole house visualizer for distributing different visualizers to different zones rooms playing different music audio content independently. Such a service may also provide whole house digital alarm clock and reminder functionality including displaying reminders or performing automated tasks integration with Digital Jukebox QuickTime iTunes playing media files web broadcasts and CDs DVDs performing wake up and reminder prompts with user specified digital media content including internet radio MP3 and Digital Jukebox Playlist and automatically composing sending email including video mail reminders.

The present invention supports a service which provides voice over IP VOIP capabilities including integrated analog telephony adapter ATA IP private branch exchange PBX and IP key system. Such a service may also provide intelligent call screening voice activated dialing color ring back tone integration follow me find me service and inbound outbound call management.

For handling incoming phone calls a service may be implemented in which the caller ID information is collected this capability is present in telephone interface which includes an FXO interface . The service may report or display the caller ID information to one or more user interfaces as desired. In addition using the caller ID information a lookup may be performed in a user s address book to determine if the calling party is listed there. If there is a match in the address book the multimedia controller may display at the user interface the calling party s name picture or other information instead of or in addition to the phone number. Advantageously the user is not required to do anything other than operate a telephone set in the customary manner.

For handling outgoing phone calls once a telephone set is taken off hook and a user begins to dial the digits may be collected DTMF tone detection capability is present in telephone interface which includes an FXS interface . Again a lookup to the user s address book will determine if the call is being placed to someone listed in the book. If so the user may now be offered particular options these may be simply announced to the user over the phone or displayed on a video display associated with the party who is being called for completing the call. For example if the address book shows that the party who is being called has videophone capability a Skype account iChat or similar service the user may select any of those options to complete the call. The user may select a call completion option by simply pressing a button on the phone making a selection on a touchscreen or through any of a number of other user interfaces supported by the present invention. Again the user is not required to know any special commands or complicated operational steps because he or she is simply using a telephone in the customary way.

Other services may also be implemented where a user operates a telephone in the normal fashion but is enabled to open or close a gate a garage door lights and the like.

The present invention supports a service which provides a personal assistant or concierge service for obtaining organizing and displaying entertainment related or other information within the home or other setting. Such a service may provide for on screen display or other user specified media information on weather sports stocks on line ticket purchases on line reservations email shopping list creation and synchronization with PDA or other portable devices recipes and traffic reports including video.

While certain embodiments of the present invention described above make use of various functionalities provided by the Mac OS X operating system e.g. Automator Applescript the present invention does not require that particular operating system in any way. The present invention including in particular the programmable services aspect of the invention may be implemented in connection with any desired operating system including without limitation Windows and Linux.

The foregoing description has been directed to particular embodiments of this invention. It will be apparent however that other variations and modifications may be made to the described embodiments with the attainment of some or all of their advantages. Additionally the procedures or processes may be implemented in hardware software embodied as a computer readable medium having program instructions firmware or a combination thereof. Therefore it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

