---

title: Metal-organic framework sorbents having hierarchical pore structure and method of making the same
abstract: This invention is directed to a porous sorbent comprising a modified metal-organic framework (MOF) having a hierarchical pore structure. The MOF is modified by plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition with air, fluorocarbons, or other sources of fluorine. In preferred embodiments the MOFs are zirconium based. The modified MOF, while surprisingly retaining its crystal structure, comprises a mixture of micropores and mesopores and embedded fluorine atoms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474997&OS=09474997&RS=09474997
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09474997
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150319
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 968 592 filed on Mar. 21 2014.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates to a porous sorbent specifically a modified metal organic framework herein referred to as MOF manufactured article comprising same method of preparing same and method of using same for gas diffusion storage and mass transport.

Porous sorbents are currently employed in a variety of fields including gas storage separations filtration catalysis and others. The ability to introduce active sites onto sorbents that are capable of reaction with both acidic and basic gases continues to be an area of interest. Such sorbents are incorporated into respirators used by emergency and or military personnel to remove toxic chemicals. For example the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health NIOSH requires chemical biological radiological and nuclear CBRN filters to provide protection against a wide variety of gases including ammonia NH chlorine gas Cl and cyanogen chloride CNCl . Current military and commercial individual small and collective large building vehicle filters employ activated impregnated carbon. Although carbon is typically an excellent material for removing highly toxic chemicals such as nerve blister blood and choking agents there are shortcomings with gases beyond those toxic chemicals.

To this end metal organic frameworks MOFs have been intensely studied for a variety of potential applications including gas storage catalysis separations and toxic gas removal. MOFs are crystalline materials built using metal containing secondary building unit SBU clusters and organic linkers which can be functionalized. The ability to change the SBU and organic linker allows for a large potential number of combinations and therefore performance and properties. Many MOFs are inherently microporous however the linkers can be extended or templates can be used to make mesoporous MOFs. Micropores refer to pore sizes less than 2 nanometers while mesopores refer to pore sizes between 2 and 50 nanometers. The ability to incorporate multiple functionalities into the backbone of MOFs is a major advantage over traditional activated impregnated carbons. However for use in filtration and other applications where diffusion kinetics are important a wide range of pore sizes are sometimes required. Micropores are necessary for high energy adsorption sites while mesopores and macropores are required for transport from the bulk air phase to the active sites.

One potential shortcoming of MOFs is that they are almost exclusively microporous and in dynamic separations small pore apertures may lead to reduce mass transfer. Attempts to make isostructural MOFs with larger pores has proven successful with extension of the organic linker. However the modification may lack sufficient stability and does not possess a hierarchical pore structure. Other MOFs have been synthesized with mesopores many of which require the use of a templating agent. Only a few if any MOFs possessing a hierarchical combination of micropores and mesopores are known. Furthermore there is a long felt need for a post synthetic method to develop a hierarchical pore structure within MOFs.

The invention is directed to a porous sorbent comprising a modified MOF its use and the method to produce thereof. The MOF is post synthetically modified with a plasma consisting of air and or fluorocarbons and or other sources of fluorine and or other halogens. The modified MOF surprisingly retains its crystal structure. The modified MOF also enhances diffusion of absorbed mediums as compared to unmodified MOF.

This invention is directed to a porous sorbent comprising a modified metal organic framework. The MOF is modified by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition with air fluorocarbons or other sources of fluorine or halogens. The modified MOF while surprisingly retaining its crystal structure also contains a mixture of micropores and mesopores. Specifically at least one source of halogen or preferably fluorine etches the modified MOF to create mesopores. The modified MOF also enhances diffusion of absorbed mediums as compared to an unmodified MOF. Further due to the mesoporosity resulting from the plasma etching the modified MOF is effective in retaining and removing toxic chemicals from the environment or converting toxic chemicals such as VX to less toxic forms.

It is noted that for the present invention the terms cornerstone brick or cornerstone are interchangeable with a secondary building unit SBU . These terms refer to inorganics preferably metals or metal oxides that form the core of the MOF and are linkable to one another via an organic linker to form the lattice or crystal structure of MOF.

It is also noted that for the present invention the MOF broadly encompass or is alternatively referred to as zeolitic inorganic framework ZIF iso reticular metal organic framework IRMOF Universitetet i Oslo UiO and Materials Institute Lavoisier MIL . Further the present invention encompasses plasma etched ZIF IRMOF and MIL for the purpose of gas and liquid mass transport.

In the synthesis of a new MOF the stability of the framework is mainly controlled by the inorganic brick or SBU and the strength of the chemical bonding between the SBU and the linkers. Identification of stable flexible new inorganic SBUs is therefore of most importance for the development of new stable open hybrid structures.

A MOF of the present invention comprises a plurality of units SBUs or metal coordination polyhedra and ligands linking moieties . The ligands are polydentate to allow the formation of a one two or three dimensional extended structure e.g. terephthalic acid or imidazole . The SBU of the present invention contain a cluster with formula MO OH cluster and bridged by carboxylates CO originating from the dicarboxylic acid forming a MO OH CO cluster wherein w 1 10 x 0 10 y 0 10 and z 2 20. M is a metal selected from the group consisting of Al Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd Lu Hf Ta W Re. Os Ir Pt Au Hg Rf Db Sg Bh Hs Ds Rg Lanthanides Actinides and Uub. Preferably M is a transitional metal selected from the group consisting of Ti Cr Co Ni Cu Zn Zr Pd Cd Hf and Rf. More preferably M is a transitional metal selected from the group consisting of Ti Co Ni Zn Zr Cd Hf and Rf. Most preferably M is a transitional metal selected from the group consisting of Ti Zr Hf and Rf as the Group IV elements interact strongly with oxygen and are therefore obvious choices for stable inorganic cornerstones in combination with oxygen containing linkers.

Preferably the transition metal useful for the present invention is zirconium forming a zirconium based MOF that is also known as UiO 66 a Zr MOF that contains 1 4 benzone dicarboxylate BDC linkers. The description of this MOF can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 8 653 292 to Hafizovic which is incorporated herein by reference.

Alternatively the organic linkers of the transition MOFs of the invention may be any linker molecule or molecule combination capable of binding to at least two inorganic cornerstones and comprising an organic moiety. Thus the linker may be any of the linkers conventionally used in MOF production. These are generally compounds with at least two cornerstone binding groups e.g. carboxylates optionally with extra functional groups which do not bind the cornerstones but may bind other metal ions. The linkers moreover typically have rigidifying groups between the cornerstone binding groups to facilitate 3D MOF formation. Examples of suitable organic linker compounds include oxalic acid ethyloxalic acid fumaric acid 1 3 5 benzene tribenzoic acid BTB benzene tribiphenylcarboxylic acid BBC 5 15 bis 4 carboxyphenyl zinc II porphyrin BCPP 1 4 benzene dicarboxylic acid BDC 2 amino 1 4 benzene dicarboxylic acid R BDC or HN BDC 1 1 azo diphenyl 4 4 dicarboxylic acid cyclobutyl 1 4 benzene dicarboxylic acid R BDC benzene tricarboxylic acid 2 6 naphthalene dicarboxylic acid NDC 1 1 biphenyl 4 4 dicarboxylic acid BPDC 2 2 bipyridyl 5 5 dicarboxylic acid adamantane tetracaboxylic acid ATC adamantane dibenzoic acid ADB adamantane teracarboxylic acid ATC dihydroxyterephthalic acid DHBDC biphenyltetracarboxylic acid BPTC tetrahydropyrene 2 7 dicarboxylic acid HPDC hihydroxyterephthalic acid DHBC pyrene 2 7 dicarboxylic acid PDC pyrazine dicarboxylic acid acetylene dicarboxylic acid ADC camphor dicarboxylic acid fumaric acid benzene tetracarboxylic acid 1 4 bis 4 carboxyphenyl butadiyne nicotinic acid and terphenyl dicarboxylic acid TPDC . Other acids besides carboxylic acids e.g. boronic acids may also be used. A mixture of linkers may be used to introduce functional groups within the pore space e.g. by using aminobenzoic acid to provide free amine groups or by using a shorter linker such as oxalic acid. This introduction of functionalized linkers is facilitated since the transition MOFs have excess inorganic cornerstone coordination sites beyond those required to form the stable 3D MOF structure.

Thus viewed from one aspect the invention provides an etched MOF having a surface area of at least 50 m g especially at least 500 m g particularly at ea 100 m g for example at least 1200 m g or at least 3000 m g.

The transition MOFs of the invention particularly preferably have a cornerstone having at least 4 coordination sites for the organic linkers e.g. 4 to 40 preferably 10 to 40 especially preferably at least 15 to 36 most preferably 20 to 36. In this way at least 6 more preferably at least 10 polydentate ligand groups of the organic linkers can bind to each cornerstone. Especially preferably the cornerstone is a ZrOor ZrO OH structure which coordinated to 12 organic linkers per cornerstone.

Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a MOF having a metal atom to organic linker molecule ratio of from 1 0.45 to 1 0.55 especially 1 0.49 to 1 0.51 particularly 1 0.5 and preferably having a surface area of at least 50 m g etc. as above. Other preferred metal atom to organic linker molecule ratios are about 0.5 1 about 1 1 about 3 1 and about 1 3.

Viewed from another aspect the invention provides an etched and functionalized transition MOF especially Zr MOF having a surface area of at least 50 m g especially at least 200 m g especially at least 500 m g particularly at least 900 m g.

By functionalized MOF is meant a MOF wherein one or more of the backbone atoms of the organic linkers thereof carries a pendant functional group or itself forms a functional group. Functional groups are typically groups capable of reacting with compounds entering the MOF or acting as catalytic sites for reaction of compounds entering the MOF. Suitable functional groups will be apparent to a person skilled in the art and in preferred embodiments of the invention include amino thiol oxyacid halide and cyano groups or heterocyclic groups e.g. pyridine each optionally linked by a linker group e.g. preferably carbonyl. The functional group may also be a phosphorus or sulfur containing acid. The present invention of the functional group is preferably an amino group.

If an acid functional group possesses more than one labile hydrogen then one or more of said labile hydrogens itself may be substituted leaving one labile hydrogen.

If desired a precursor to the functional group can be prepared for example an ether or ester group or their phosphorous or sulfur equivalents.

The functionalized or unfunctionalized MOFs of the invention will preferably have the cornerstones and or a metal atom to organic linker molecule ratios referred to above.

MOF construction is effected in solution typically an organic solvent for example dimethylformamide DMF using a soluble precursor such as Zr compound and the organic linker and preferably in a molar ratio of from 0.6 1 to 3 1 particularly 0.8 1 to 2 1 especially about 1 1. The solution is generally heated for example to 60 to 150 C. preferably 100 to 140 C. especially 110 to 130 C. particularly 115 to 125 C. e.g. 80 to 130 C. or 100 to 120 C. . The MOF formation is preferably allowed to occur under static conditions e.g. for up to 96 hours especially 12 to 72 hours particularly 24 to 48 hours e.g. for 10 to 30 hours especially 15 to 19 hours . The use of too long a formation period e.g. 7 days or too high a formation temperature e.g. at or above the upper limits mentioned above is generally undesirable as the surface area of the resulting MOF tends to be reduced. Alternatively no solvent is necessary for constructing the MOF and the general conditions such as heating and the growth period can be modified accordingly. The metal is preferably present in the reaction solution at a concentration of 0.3 2.0 M especially 0.5 1.0 M particularly 0.6 0.8 M. The resulting MOF should then be washed with solvent conveniently the one used for the MOF formation reaction and thoroughly dried. The surface area can be determined by use of nitrogen adsorption and the BET method. This method by which the surface areas referred to herein may be determined is described by Rouquerol et al in Adsorption by powders and porous solids Academic Press San Diego Calif. USA 1999.

The solvent used is conveniently an alcohols dimethyl formamide DMF toluene methylethyl ketone MEK dimethylsulfoxide DMSO tetrahydrofuran THF cyclohexanone diethyl formamide DEF N methyl pyrridone acetone an alkane pyridine or acetonitrile. The use of DMF is especially preferred.

The metal salt used is preferably a halide e.g. the chloride an alcoholate a nitrate or an acetonate. The metal may if desired be present in such a reagent as an oxide cation.

The MOFs of the present invention are particularly suitable for containing gases or liquids due to their very high surface area and stability. The types of gases of interest are principally toxic gases such as ammonia or cyanogen chloride however other gases may be adsorbed and under raised temperature or reduced pressure desorbed thus they can also be used to capture gaseous contaminants or to hold other gases such as for example hydrogen methane acetylene nitrogen carbon monoxide oxygen or carbon dioxide. The types of liquid of interest are biologically toxic such as sulfur mustard sarin and VX. Other uses include separations of isomers organics and other chemicals.

Alternatively the MOFs of the present invention may also be used as catalysts either relying on the catalytic activity of Zr by using linkers with catalytic activity or by loading the MOF with a catalyst e.g. a material which is simply absorbed into the MOF or which will bind to free functionalities on the organic linkers in the MOF. Catalyst loading and subsequent reagent loading may be performed in conventional fashion. Thus viewed from a further aspect the invention provides a catalyzed process for reacting a reagent to produce a product characterized in that as the catalyst or catalyst carrier is a modified MOF of the present invention. Viewed from another aspect the invention provides the use of a MOF as a catalyst or catalyst support. Viewed from a still further aspect the invention provides a transition MOF material having catalytic activity. Performance of catalyzed reactions within porous structures is known to allow great reaction specificity and the transition MOFs may advantageously be used to this end.

For the purpose of the present invention IRMOF ZIF and MIL may also be functionalized and or etched to create mesopores while having their internal structures substantially intact. Specifically MIL is a subset of MOF and can be alternatively referred to as MOF.

An isoreticular metal organic framework IRMOF according to the disclosure comprises a plurality of SBUs each of the plurality of SBUs comprises for example an MO CO cluster. A compound links adjacent SBUs the linking compound comprising a linear ditopic carboxylate having at least one phenyl group and or at least one functional group X attached to at least one phenyl group. The IRMOF formed has substantial permanent porosity.

M in the SBU is a metal cation. For example the metal cation can be selected from the group consisting of a beryllium zinc cadmium mercury and any of the transition metals in the periodic table Group IV metals scandium through copper yttrium through silver lanthanum through gold and all known elements from actinium on .

Particularly IRMOF comprises a reactive side group X that can bond either covalently ionically or through hydrogen bonds with a gas analyte . In one embodiment the reactive side group is a Lewis Acid or base group.

The ZIF family of materials follows the same building principles as other MOF but the ligands are chosen from organic molecules with imidazolate moieties e.g. imdazolate benzimidazolate adenine cytosine and so on the metal coordination polyhedra typically contains one metal ion e.g. Zinc II and is a tetrahedron. These materials resemble topologies found in inorganic zeolites and are able to generate topologies which were not yet observed in inorganic zeolites. One feature that makes this class of material a useful mass transport is its stability towards a vast variety of solvents

The zeolitic frameworks comprise a network of homogenous transition metal or heterogeneous transition metals linked by a homogenous or heterogeneous linking moiety. The zeolitic frameworks of the present invention comprises any of the networks currently defined in the Atlas of Zeolite Structure Types known in the literature as well as POZ. The zeolitic frameworks of the present invention provide nanoporous structure useful for filtration gas storage and the like as more fully described herein.

The present invention also provides a general synthesis of structures having zeolite framework topologies in which all tetrahedral atoms are transition metals and the linking moieties comprise organic linkers comprising nitrogen sulfur or oxygen organic molecules e.g. such as imidazolate IM units . The organic linkers may be further functionalized to modify the cage size and pore size or specificity to a guest species or gas molecule.

ZIFs comprise the general structure M L M wherein M comprises a transition metal and L is a linking moiety.

Overall MOFs including IRMOFs MILs and ZIFs are porous frameworks that can be functionalized to bind and interact with various analytes including but not limited to ammonia carbon dioxide carbon monoxide hydrogen amines methane oxygen argon nitrogen organic dyes polycyclic organic molecules toxic agents and combinations thereof. The diversity of the MOFs of the disclosure comprising a porous framework material can be increased by combining the framework with additional material e.g. conductive polymers insulators and the like .

A detailed description of MOFs IRMOFs and ZIFs can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 8 735 161 to Yaghi which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention utilizes gas etching specifically plasma etching on the MOF to create mesopores within the MOF and surprisingly leaving the crystal structure of the modified MOF substantially intact. Plasma etching is a form of surface treatment in which larger quantities of material are impacted and removed. Plasma etching leads to a deep structuring of the surface. Reactive ions that are created within the plasma react with surface atoms. The resultant volatile side products are removed from the chamber with the plasma gas. The plasma etching process can be modified further by adding activated neutral uncharged molecules to the process. The exact mechanism of how fluorocarbon etches a target material is described in detail by Diener electronic GmbH diener plasma surface technology Plasma Technology which is incorporated herein by reference.

Plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition had previously been performed on CuBTC MOF with perfluorinated precursors and resulted in a highly hydrophobic material resistant to degradation from moisture. In general using a perfluorinated precursor results in the formation of F and CF x 1 3 radicals species and other radicals ions that are highly active and will deposit on a surface or interact with a substrate.

Without wish to be bound by theory it is believed that a treatment of perfluoroalkanes breaks transition metal O especially Zr O bonds to form mesoporous structures of the MOF. This process is tunable such that the duration of treatment and power of plasma at different levels affect the pore size and surface area of the target MOF. The fluorocarbon precursor is selected from but not limited to the group consisting of CF CFH CFCl CFCl CCl CF CF CF and mixtures thereof. The fluorocarbon precursor is preferably CFor CF. The plasma fluorocarbons may be mixed with an inert gas such as N Xe Ar Ne He and Kr or air prior to etching a targeted MOF.

Accordingly viewed from a further aspect the invention provides the use of an etched MOF to retain or absorb a biologically toxic gas or liquid. Viewed from a further aspect the invention provides a gas or liquid container or processing unit e.g. detoxification units such as pumps respirators gas masks or filters containing the etched MOF a fuel tank for a motor vehicle a storage tank or sealable vessel containing the etched MOF. Viewed from a further aspect such devices may be constructed in conventional fashion.

The modified or etched MOF contains embedded fluorine and has an atomic ratio of F to M in the range of 0.1 to 12 preferably 0.2 to 10 more preferably 0.5 to 9. Alternatively fluorine may be entirely removed by washing the etched MOF rehydrate the etched sites to induce hydrolysis of chemicals. The modified MOF contains at least 1 mesopore volume preferably at least 20 mesopore volume and more preferably 30 mesopore volume. The pores are greater than 20 or 2 nanometers in size preferably greater than 50 or 5 nanometers in size and more preferably greater than 100 or 10 nanometers in size. Further the modified MOF has a micropore volume of 40 90 preferably 45 80 .

As shown in Sample representing both untreated Zr based MOF and untreated Zr based functionalized MOF has a crystal structure with cornerstones or SBU having micropore A allowing a few gas particles to enter the MOF. After the plasma etching by perfluorocarbons the modified MOF Sample has mesopore B that allows for greater access of gas particle into modified MOF while the lattice structure anchored by cornerstones is substantially intact.

Two sets of MOFs were produced. The porosity structure and surface area of the MOFs were measured to ascertain the effects of plasma etching with fluorocarbons on the MOFs.

Zr MOF linked by BDG was synthesized by dissolving ZrCl 0.053 g 0.227 mmol Aldrich and 1 4 benzenedicarboxylic acid HBDC 0.034 g 0.227 mmol Aldrich in N N dimethylformamide DMF 24.9 g 340 mmol at ambient temperature. The mixture was sealed and placed in a pre heated oven at 120 C. for 24 hours. Crystallization was carried out under static conditions. After cooling in air to ambient temperature the resulting solid was filtered repeatedly washed with DMF and dried at ambient temperature. Samples were activated under vacuum at approximately 100 150 C before plasma treatment.

A Zr MOF functionalized with NH Zr MOF NH was prepared using zirconium tetrachloride 2 aminoterephthalic acid water and dimethylformamide. The metal salt was purchased from Alfa Aesar and the rest of the chemicals were purchased from Sigma Aldrich. The molar composition of the reaction is 1 Zr 1 Acid 3.17 HO 297 DMF. 400 mL of DMF and 2 mL of DI HO were added slowly to 8.12 g of ZrClin an Erlenmeyer flask gases are produced upon addition of solvent . In a separate Erlenmeyer flask 400 mL of DMF was added to 6.275 g of 2 aminoterephthalic acid. Both mixtures were stirred until completely dissolved. The solutions were then mixed together and heated by microwave irradiation in sealed vessels at 1500 W for 2 and 9 hours at 120 C. Both reaction times produced the final product. The resulting pale yellow powder was filtered and extracted with methanol in a Soxhlet extractor overnight. The final product was dried in air and then baked in an oven at 65 C. The material was characterized by PXRD and Nisotherm measurements. For nitrogen adsorption studies the material was activated at 150 C. under vacuum overnight. Samples were activated under vacuum at approximately 100 150 C before plasma treatment.

Alternatively the Zr MOF NHcan be made with the method as described in Example 7 of U.S. Pat. No. 8 653 292 to Hafizovic which is incorporated herein by reference.

A subset of Zr MOF and Zr MOF NHwas etched by plasma treatment using fluorocarbons while second subset of each type of the produced MOF was not treated by plasma. Specifically for the plasma treatment one set was treated with tetrafluoromethane CF and another set was treated with hexafluoroethane CF .

Plasma etching was conducted using perfluoroalkanes in a Thierry Corporation vacuum Femto system. 0.5 grams of each of the target MOFs was placed in a Pyrex container and a gas permeable cover was placed over the top of the container to prevent the targeted MOF from escaping during the plasma pulsing. One set of samples was treated with tetrafluoromethane CF and another set of samples was treated with hexafluoroethane CF . Treatments were conducted at 50 W for 5 minutes and 60 minutes. The flow rate of the perfluoroalkane precursor was set such that the chamber pressure was constant at 0.3 mbar. The Pyrex container was affixed to a rotating drum such that continuous mixing occurred during the treatment process.

Each of the following sections describes an experimental procedure performed on the plasma treated MOFs and untreated MOFs.

Nitrogen uptake was measured at 77K using a Micromeretics Tristar system. Samples were off gassed at approximately 150 C. overnight for approximately 16 hours. Surface area measurements were calculated using the Brunauer Emmett Teller BET method and total pore volumes were calculated at a relative pressure of 0.975.

Powder X ray diffraction PXRD measurements were taken using a PANalytical X Pert X ray powder diffractometer with an X celerator detector. Samples were scanned at 45 kV and 40 mA using Cu K radiation 1.54 a step size of 2 0.033 10.08 s step over the 2 range of 10 80 . Zero background discs were used to minimize background scattering. PXRD patterns were processed using the Reflex module in Material Studio 5.5 by Accelrys.

Attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ATR FTIR spectra were obtained using a Bruker Tensor 27 FTIR with a Bruker platinum ATR accessory equipped with a diamond crystal. The average of sixteen scans was used at a resolution of 4 cm. Scans were taken from 4000 to 600 cm.

XPS spectra were recorded using a Perkin Elmer Phi 570 ESCA SAM system employing MgK x rays. All binding energies were referenced to the C1s photoelectron peak at 284.6 eV.

X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS data were collected to determine the mechanism of mesoporosity development and of the bonds that were formed and or broken. The F 1s spectra for Zr MOF NHand Zr MOF are shown in . In particular ZrOplasma treated for 60 minutes with CFis shown for comparison as SBUs of Zr MOF and Zr MOF NHare comprised of Zr O bonds. Fluorine peaks are present on all samples but they are more pronounced on samples treated for longer periods of time. Both the Zr MOF CFand Zr MOF NH CFsamples show Zr F species formation at 685.4 ev.

The proposed mechanism of mesoporosity development for MOF stems from Zr O bond breakage from fluorocarbon radicals generated in the plasma similar to reaction with hydrogen fluoride. As shown in Table 2 with the treatment time of 60 minutes the F Zr atomic ratio increased while the O Zr ratio decreased. The decreased O Zr ratios indicate a loss of oxygen species due to bond breaking from plasma treatment. Changes to the Zr MOF NHsamples are even more pronounced in the F Zr ratio for 60 minute as compared to 5 minute treated samples. Similarly the O Zr ratios decrease for the 60 minute treated samples further supporting the fluorocarbon etching mechanism for mesoporosity development.

The attenuated total reflectance ATR Fourier transform infrared FTIR spectroscopy data shown in indicates functional changes for both MOFs. When comparing Zr MOF NHand Zr MOF NH CF 60 min there was the loss of the band at 730 cm while gaining weak bands at v 914 and 866 cmThe band at 730 cmcorresponds to the O stretching of the MOF SBU. The O holds together the SBUs and therefore these functional groups were lost as the structure was broken apart. As these bonds broke in the fluorination process this infrared contribution was lost. The second major feature occurred in the Zr F stretching region which is defined by stretches between 1000 and 850 cmIn this region new weak bands at 914 and 866 cmare observed. These bands correspond with Zr F stretches in various zirconium oxyfluoride species. These were likely formed upon the etching by fluorine radicals in the plasma.

Although the structure was degrading as seen by nitrogen isotherm data the powder X ray diffraction PXRD patterns as shown in illustrate that after the plasma treatments the crystal structure remained intact for each of the MOF and MOF NHsamples with no noticeable differences when compared to untreated Zr MOF NHand Zr MOF.

To study the effect of the different power levels of the plasma has on etching the MOF plasma treatments were conducted on an additional set of Zr MOF NHsamples at power levels 10 W 25 W 50 W and 75 W for 60 minutes. As shown in at 10 W overall nitrogen uptake was simply reduced potentially due to physisorption of CFwithout the formation of an abundant amount of fluorocarbon and fluorine radicals and thus the etching of the MOF was insufficient. At 25 W the resulting surface area is similar to the 10 W sample Table 3 and some mesoporosity was detected. The 50 W sample shows even more mesoporosity with a decrease in overall surface area. Finally the sample treated at 75 W shows the most hierarchical pore network of the samples with a higher total nitrogen uptake that was even greater than the baseline sample. This behavior may be due to different bonds being broken or bonds being broken at different rates at higher vs. lower energies thus creating a different mesoporous structure.

To determine the effects of the treatment on mass transport the baseline Zr MOF NHand Zr MOF NH CF 60 samples were exposed to nerve agent VX. 5 L of VX were dropped onto approximately 30 mg of each sample and the reaction was measured by P nuclear magnetic resonance. Conversion vs. time data calculated for both samples are shown in . Without wish to be bound by theory VX reacts with MOF crystals as the molecule is approximately the same size as the calculated pore aperture of MOF NH and thus prone to diffusion resistance. Yet due to the self catalyzed hydrolysis of VX via the ethyl methylphosphonic acid EMPA intermediate opening up the pore structure likely allows for more intimate contact between the EMPA byproduct and unreacted VX. The mesoporous structure of the modified MOF also allows for the diffusion of other byproducts away from the main reaction allowing for the reaction to complete. As shown in the modification of the pore structure resulted in a 60 reduction in half life as from 653 min for the baseline Zr MOF NHto 257 min for the Zr MOF NH CF 60 material.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

