---

title: Systems and methods for managing communications across multiple identities
abstract: Electronic communications are managed across multiple identities. A user is able to create an account as well as any desired, required, or appropriate number of profiles under the account. Text messages are exchanged between users using specific profiles. For example, some text messages can be exchanged using a personal profile while other text messages need to be exchanged using a professional profile. In some instances, exchanged text messages are saved to a centralized archive. As such, one or both of the users involved in an exchange can request to retrieve some or all of the exchanged messages at a later time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09271131&OS=09271131&RS=09271131
owner: TRUTEXT, INC.
number: 09271131
owner_city: Vacaville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150903
---
This application is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 473 965 filed on Aug. 29 2014 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 875 654 filed Sep. 9 2013 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 875 656 filed Sep. 9 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 875 663 filed Sep. 9 2013 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

The embodiments described herein are related to electronic communications and more specifically to managing multiple identities for use in electronic communication such as text based communication.

Text messaging or texting generally refers to the act of sending brief electronic messages between two or more devices e.g. portable devices such as mobile phones over a telephone network. Although the term initially referred to messages sent using Short Message Service SMS it has grown to encompass Multimedia Message Service MMS messages that contain a wide ranging variety of content including images videos and sound. In many situations sending a text message can be far more convenient and discreet than placing a phone call. Indeed texting has steadily supplanted voice calls as a choice means of communication. By 2007 monthly texting activities have already outpaced phone calls and as of 2012 some 80 percent of mobile phone users report using their devices for texting. In fact texting is no longer relegated to just casual or informal exchanges and have become prevalent even in business and professional contexts. But despite texting messaging s skyrocketing popularity conventional SMS systems still struggle with a number of significant limitations.

First each mobile phone is typically assigned a unique phone number e.g. a ten digit numeric string in the United States . With a conventional SMS message the identities of both the sender and the recipient are generally tied to the phone number associated their respective mobile phones. Neither party in the exchange has control or flexibility over their respective identities. As one example imagine that one user Alice is sending a text message to another user Bob. On the one hand the sending device relies on the phone number of the receiving device in order to dispatch the text message to the correct destination. Thus in this example Alice would need to have Bob s phone number in order to send the text message to Bob s mobile phone. Meanwhile a receiving device will almost always be able to attribute an incoming text message to the phone number associated with the sending device. So when Alice s text message is delivered Bob s mobile phone can recognize and inform Bob that the text message had originated from Alice s mobile phone. To maintain more than one identity e.g. work personal a user must have separate devices and a different phone number for each since a single phone number cannot ported back and forth or otherwise shared between multiple active devices. In practice most people resort to carrying one device for work and another device for personal communications. So depending on whether Alice wishes to text her colleague Bob or her friend Charlie Alice will need to switch between a work phone and number and a personal phone and number .

Furthermore many social and commercial situations warrant a disclosure or exchange of contact information although some or all of the parties involved only expect or desire to stay in touch in the short term. Phone numbers even temporary or disposable ones e.g. burner phones should not be divulged indiscriminately in these situations since they are generally inconvenient and costly to set up and change. As one example suppose Alice is holding a garage sale. Alice would like perspective shoppers to be able to contact her but only for the duration of the sale. Nevertheless it would be impractical for Alice to set up a temporary phone number just for the garage sale but she is also loath to publicize her personal phone number when advertising her garage sale.

Conventional SMS systems also do not adequately support conversations conducted between large groups of individuals. To the extent that a SMS message can be addressed to multiple recipients group conversations conducted via SMS tend take place only between existing acquaintances e.g. friends family and colleagues . This is because the sender of a SMS message must be privy to the phone number of every participant in a group conversation whether the SMS message is being sent directly from one mobile phone to another or through a SMS gateway e.g. SMS messages sent and received as emails at a computer terminal . Consider for instance a large gathering such as a sporting event or a concert. Although many people would welcome the prospect of engaging in a group conversation with others attendees e.g. to share personal thoughts and commentaries it remains largely undesirable and impractical to have to share private phone numbers with numerous strangers.

These and other features aspects and embodiments are described below in the section entitled Detailed Description. 

The embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these example embodiments or any other implementations may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of operation. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein are directed toward a platform that manages communications across multiple identities. In particular in various embodiments the platform enables individual users to establish maintain and utilize a plurality e.g. two or more of identities or profiles under a single account. In various embodiments some or all of the identities are used for text based communication including the sending and the receipt of text messages. It is to be understood that a text message can include one or more different types of data including but not limited to images videos and sound. It is further to be understood that one or more different types of data can be inserted in or attached to a text message transmitted via the platform including but not limited to images e.g. .GIF .JPEG .BMP files e.g. .DOC .PDF .XLS .PPT hyperlinks and emoticons.

In various embodiments the platform acts as an intermediary that routes text messages communicated between the first device the second device and the third device . For example suppose that the user of the first device Alice sends a text message to the users of the second device and the third device Bob and Charlie respectively. In various embodiments the text message is not delivered directly to the second device and the third device . Instead the text message is transmitted first to the platform before the platform routes the text message to the second device and the third device . As will be described in more detail below in various embodiments the platform is configured to provide a service enabling the users e.g. Alice Bob and Charlie of at least some of the first device the second device and the third device to communicate e.g. send and receive text messages using more than one identity. Further as will be described in more detail below in various embodiments at least some users of the first device the second device and the third device e.g. Alice Bob and Charlie can subscribe or sign up to the service and then communicate e.g. send and receive text messages with other service subscribers and non service subscribers using multiple identities. Finally in various embodiments the platform can further act as a gateway for both incoming and outgoing text messages. Otherwise stated in various embodiments messages can be sent and received in any desired required or appropriate communications format or protocol including but not limited to text messages and emails. Meanwhile in various embodiments the same profile name or handle can be used to send and to receive messages regardless of the transmission formats or protocols. For example Alice can choose to send a message to Bob as either an email or a text message. In some embodiments the platform will automatically convert and deliver as an email any text messages that exceeds a certain maximum length e.g. greater than 160 characters .

In various embodiments the platform stores at least some of the test messages communicated between various devices including the first device the second device and the third device . As shown in the platform further communicates with a database . In various embodiments the platform is configured to archive at least some of the text messages routed through the platform in the database . For example in various embodiments the platform stores the text messages from Alice to both Bob and Charlie in the database . As will be described in more detail below the platform is configured to provide archival functions e.g. latent access to at least some of the text messages archived in the database .

The various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein are directed toward a platform e.g. the platform described with respect to that provides a service enabling subscribers to the service to communicate e.g. send and receive text messages using multiple identities. In particular in various embodiments a single account can be set up to include multiple subordinate profiles. In various embodiments each profile corresponds to a different identity and can be designated assigned or otherwise associated with a distinctive profile name or handle. In various embodiments a user can use different profiles to communicate with different contacts. In contrast one email account is generally associated with only a single email address. Similarly a mobile phone is always associated with only one telephone number.

In the various systems and methods described herein users are able to maintain multiple profiles and access these profiles from different devices. Otherwise stated in various embodiments an account is not confined to a single profile nor is a profile necessarily tied to any single device. In fact in various embodiments a user has the ability to establish then simultaneously maintain and utilize an unlimited number of profiles and corresponding identities. Alice for instance can set up one account with at least two separate profiles. One profile e.g. Alice TruText.com can be used to communicate with her friends and family and another e.g. Alice.Jones.Esq TruText.com can be used to communicate with her colleagues at work. As such in various embodiments text messages that are transmitted using a specific profile are communicated based on the corresponding profile name or handle instead of for example the phone number of the sending or receiving mobile phone. For example suppose Alice sends her friend Bob a text message using Alice TruText.com the profile she had set up to communicate with friends and family. When the text message is delivered to Bob Bob s device e.g. smartphone would inform Bob that the text message is from Alice TruText.com regardless of the device Alice had used to send the text message. Should Bob subsequently respond to Alice s text message that text message would be addressed to Alice TruText.com and be displayed to Alice as a communication thread under her personal profile. Advantageously in various embodiments every profile under one account can be accessed collectively from any one of a user s devices. That is in various embodiments the user can very quickly and easily toggle between different profiles. For example after Alice sends one text message to Bob as Alice TruText.com she can switch to her Alice.Jones.Esq TruText.com profile to send a second text message to Charlie and then immediately return to her conversation with Bob all from the same device. On the other hand to send conventional SMS text messages from different phone numbers would entail a manual switch from one device to another.

In various embodiments an account is established as a result of an initial registration subscription or sign up process to the service. As such in various embodiments registering subscribing or signing up to the service generates a general umbrella or otherwise all inclusive account that provides a single point of nexus to a plurality of subordinate profiles. Advantageously in various embodiments multiple profiles can be managed and manipulated at once via the account including but not limited to adding removing and temporarily decommissioning one or more profiles on the account. Furthermore in various embodiments the account and every profile under the account can be established maintained and utilized via from any number of different devices. In some embodiments as part of the initial registration or sign up process a user can designate one or more devices that will be used to access the account.

For example suppose Alice has three different devices a smartphone a tablet PC and a laptop. Instead of tying an account or any profile under the account to a specific device in various embodiments Alice is able to access to identical features and functionalities e.g. send and receive text messages add and remove profiles with respect to her account and all of her profiles from any one of her devices. To illustrate in various embodiments Alice is able to send and receive text messages using her personal profile Alice TruText.com whether she is on her smartphone tablet PC and laptop.

As shown in a user has configured the first device the second device and the third device for use with respect to the multi profile account. In various embodiments the user configures a e.g. the first device the second device and the third device by downloading and installing a copy of an application on the device. In various embodiments the application provides a user interface that enables a variety of interactions with the multi profile account. For example Alice can use the application that is installed on her smartphone the second device to send a text message to her friend Bob using one profile e.g. Alice TruText.com as well as to send a text message to her colleague Charlie using her other profile e.g. Alice.Jones.Esq TruText.com . Alternately Alice can also use the same the application installed on her laptop e.g. the first device or tablet PC e.g. the third device to send and receive text messages using any one of her two profiles. In various embodiments the application provides additional features and functions that can be triggered invoked or otherwise applied with respect to the multi profile account including but not limited to options to edit e.g. add remove suspend the profiles on Alice s account. As will be discussed in more detail below the application also provides an interface for a user to interact with earlier text messages that have been archived in the database . In various embodiments since the application is installed on each one of the first device the second device and the third device these additional features and functions are available on any one of the first device the second device and the third device .

In some embodiments the application provides one or more Graphic User Interface GUI components e.g. text areas or fields radio buttons checkboxes drop down menu . In various embodiments at least some of the features and functions offered by the application e.g. text messaging profile editing are triggered and or executed in full or in part based on user inputs and or selections provided via the one or more GUI components. For example the GUI can include radio buttons or drop down menus that a user such as Alice can use to switch between different profiles. As another example the GUI can display a text box field or area into which Alice can enter alpha numeric strings to compose her text messages to either Bob or Charlie. In various embodiments the GUI is designed to resemble a conventional texting application or environment.

In various embodiments the application also provides an interface between a user and the platform . As described with respect to in various embodiments the platform enables the user to establish maintain and utilize the multi profile account. In various embodiments at least some of the features and functions offered by the application with respect to the multi profile account are fully or partially implemented by the platform . shows that in various embodiments the platform is in communication with the first device the second device and the third device . In various embodiments after a user selects a particular feature or function via the application e.g. makes a selection using the GUI the application sends corresponding request s instruction s and or data to the platform . For example in some embodiments the application will forward a text message originating from any one of the first device the second device and the third device first to the platform and the platform then routes the text message to the appropriate destination device s .

In various embodiments text messages communicated between various users are not saved locally on any individual user s devices. Advantageously providing a centralized e.g. cloud storage location for text messages is both more secure and enables users to access archived text messages from any device. Returning to an earlier example in some embodiments the text message from Alice to Bob is saved on neither Alice s nor Bob s mobile phones. Instead in one exemplary embodiment text messages communicated between various devices are saved by the platform in the database . As will be discussed in more detail below text messages are centrally archived by the platform in the database . In the example Alice sends Bob a text message from one of her devices shown in e.g. the first device the second device and the third device . On the one hand in various embodiments Alice s text message to Bob is first transmitted from her device to the platform where it is routed to Bob s device. In addition in various embodiments the platform will also save Alice s text message to Bob in Database .

In various embodiments a user can follow the link to sign up or register for an account. In some embodiments part of the initial sign up or registration process includes designation of one or more devices that will be used with the account. In various embodiments the initial sign up or registration process also includes designation of a unique name or handle for the account. In some embodiments the platform is configured to provide suggestions for an account name or handle in the event that a desired account name or handle is already in use by another subscriber to the service.

It is to be understood that in various embodiments account names are separate and distinct from profile names or handles. In various embodiments the platform is able to analyze the accounts and profiles associated with various users and decipher trends and identify commonalties amongst different user accounts and or profiles. Additionally in various embodiments the platform is configured to determine and suggest additional or alternate account and or profile names or handles including account and or profile names or handles that complement a current or existing one. In some embodiments the platform suggests additional or alternate account and or profile names or handles based on a user s characteristics e.g. demographics . For example suppose that Alice is a college graduate and is between 25 34 years old. In some exemplary embodiments the platform can determine that college graduates between the ages of 25 34 have one personal profile one professional or business profile and at least four disposable profiles. Thus in some embodiments the platform can recommend that Alice create and reserve a similar set of profiles. Furthermore in some embodiments the platform can further suggest to Alice names or handles for the personal business and disposable profiles.

Furthermore in some embodiments an account can be set up but remain dormant or inactive. In various embodiments a user can pay a certain fee in order to delay account activation until a later date. In various embodiments a user can pre purchase one or more accounts and reserve the corresponding account names or handles in the process. In various exemplary embodiments account and account names or handles can be sold traded or otherwise transferred from one user to another. In various embodiments the platform supports a secondary market for active and or inactive user accounts.

Although only three profiles are shown in it is to be understood that in various other embodiments Eli can simultaneously maintain any desired required or appropriate number of profiles. In some embodiments Eli can designate one profile e.g. El WAL as a default profile. In various embodiments the default profile is automatically displayed each time Eli logs or signs into his account. In some embodiments a user can have too many profiles to be displayed concurrently on a single screen. In those embodiments a scrollbar GUI control component not shown may be added to the screen display shown in . Likewise a separate scrollbar GUI control component not shown can also be provided to enable navigation through a large number of text messages in the lower portion of the sample screen shown in .

In various embodiments a user can customize one or more images to be displayed as part of a profile on the profile selection screen. For example in a corporate logo for West Agile Labs appears along with the company s profile. Although the sample screens shown in are adapted for smartphones e.g. the second device it is to be understood that similar screens are displayed on other types of devices including but not limited to laptops e.g. the first device and tablet PCs e.g. the third device .

In various embodiments an account represents a more permanent construct than the subordinate profiles. For example the account Alice created when she initially subscribed to the service will persist unless she affirmatively cancels or revokes her subscription to the service. In contrast as described with respect to some profiles under an account can be temporary. For example in the Eli34453 profile is a temporary profile while the Eli WAL profile is a permanent one.

In various embodiments a profile can be deliberately set as temporary or disposable. As shown in in various embodiments there are at least three different types of profiles permanent temporary and group. A user can in various embodiments set up a profile under an account as permanent temporary or group. Given the circumstances in one earlier example Alice can set up a disposable profile e.g. August.Garage.Sale TruText.com specifically to handle inquiries regarding her garage sale. In various embodiments a disposable profile remains active or valid for only a limited period of time e.g. 45 days . At the end of that time period in various embodiments any communication of text messages using that temporary or disposable profile will cease. Alice for example will no longer be able to send or receive text messages using her August.Garage.Sale TruText.com profile once it expires.

In one exemplary embodiment an expired temporary or disposable profile is first put on hiatus for a certain period time e.g. 45 days before it can be recycled for use by a new user. That is in some exemplary embodiments an expired temporary or disposable profile will remain unavailable or otherwise inactive for an additional length of time in order to prevent the profile s new user from inadvertently receiving text messages intended for the profile s old user. In addition in some exemplary embodiments users who attempt to send text messages to an expired temporary or disposable profile will receive an automatic response or notification e.g. This profile is not currently in use. . In various embodiments an expired temporary or disposable account can also be renewed or extended for another period time or converted to a permanent profile. It is to be understood that in various embodiments a permanent profile does not expire automatically in the same manner as a temporary or disposable profile. However in various embodiments a permanent profile can still be deactivated or relinquished at any time without affecting the overall account. Furthermore it is to be understood that profiles can be transacted between users. That is in various embodiments a profile can be sold traded or otherwise transferred from one account to another account. In various embodiments the platform supports a secondary market of user profiles.

In various embodiments in addition to permanent temporary and group profiles one or more profiles under an account can also be designated as business profiles. In various embodiments the application gives users the option to set up or designate a profile as a business profile. In some embodiments a profile can be designated or set up as a business profile in addition to being a permanent temporary or group profile. For example in some embodiments Alice s profile for her garage sale e.g. August.Garage.Sale TruText.com can be both a temporary and a business profile.

In various embodiments when a user designates a profile as business the application is configured to prompt the user to enter additional information regarding the business. In various embodiments the user can be prompted to provide information that includes but is not limited to an address hours of operation phone numbers web addresses and mission statements. In various embodiments the platform is configured to generate and publish a directory e.g. TruText Business Directory based on information collected from a plurality of businesses. In some embodiments individual business profiles can be linked to corresponding pages on one or more review sites e.g. Yelp Zagat AngiesList and Better Business Bureau .

In various embodiments businesses are able to advertise their products and services via the platform and through the services provided by the platform . In some exemplary embodiments some or all of the selection timing content and target audience of advertisements are determined dynamically. For example in one embodiment the platform selectively pushes advertisements to a user s device via the application based on the content of the text message s that the user has been sending and or receiving. Suppose that Alice and Bob are texting one another to set up a lunch date. In one exemplary embodiment the platform analyzes some or all of the exchange between Alice and Bob to determine one or more relevant or appropriate advertisements for Alice and or Bob. Since Alice and Bob are discussing a lunch date in one exemplary embodiment the platform can determine to display to Alice and or Bob advertisements for a local restaurant. Furthermore in one exemplary embodiment the advertisement can include a profile name or handle for the restaurant e.g. Bistro TruText.com that either Alice or Bob can use to text in a reservation.

In some embodiments a user can set up multi level profile names or handles for personal or commercial uses. Advantageously in some embodiments multi level profile names or handles enables a more precise routing of text message such as within an entity or organization e.g. corporation municipality . For instance instead of simply a general profile name or handle for the restaurant in the previous example the restaurant can elect more specific profile names or handles such as reservations Bistro.TruText.com. In other examples individual i.e. non business users can also benefit from multi level profile names or handles. Alice in some embodiments can set up profiles with names or handles such as friends Alice.TruText.com family Alice.TruText.com and classmates Alice.TruText.com.

In various embodiments a user is able to create and utilize multiple profiles. Moreover the profiles may be of different types including for example but not limited to permanent temporary and group profiles. For example the user Eli can select one of the first profile i.e. Eli WAL the second profile i.e. ELI34453 and the third profile i.e. West Agile Labs to communicate with other users using the selected profile as his identity.

In one exemplary embodiment to protect a user s communication history from anyone who may be viewing the user s account the user may elect to establish a profile that is designated as a hidden profile. In various embodiments the texting history associated with a hidden profile is not directly accessible via the application . For example hidden profiles are not listed with other types of profiles e.g. permanent temporary business group and cannot be searched on an account level. Hidden profiles are also not listed on the user s account history. Individual text entries associated with hidden profiles cannot be moved and archived e.g. by the platform in the database .

Due to the secretive nature of a hidden profile according to one exemplary embodiment the existence and selection of a hidden profile cannot be indicated in an overt manner such as by using conventional GUI elements e.g. radio buttons dropdown menu etc. . Instead after a user creates a hidden profile e.g. by selecting hidden as the type of profile the profile will not be indicated or displayed when the user is signed into the user s account e.g. as part of the screen display .

According to one exemplary embodiment to access a hidden profile the user may initiate creation of a new profile such as by selecting an option i.e. Create New TruText ID . Upon selection of the option the user may be presented with a standard create screen. The user may input hidden followed by the name of the previously created hidden profile in order to select the hidden profile for use.

In various embodiments a group administrator i.e. any user subscribed or registered with the platform can create and designate at least one profile under an account as a group profile. In various embodiments a single account can accommodate any desired required or appropriate number of group profiles. In various embodiments one or more group profiles are set up in order for multiple users to engage in group text messaging. For example a group profile can be set up in order for attendees of a large event e.g. sporting match concert to exchange text messages with one another without having to reveal any personal contact information. Instead the name or handle of group profile is disseminated or publicized to some or all of the attendees.

In various embodiments a group profile can be configured to operate in one of at least three participation modes broadcast mode selective mode and full participation mode. Suppose that a group administrator has created a group profile e.g. NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com for fans at a football game. In some embodiments the group profile can be set to the broadcast participation mode. As such in some embodiments only the group administrator will be able to send text messages to the group. Meanwhile in those embodiments all group members remain in listen only mode and are not permitted to send any text messages to the group. Alternately in some embodiments the group profile can be set in a selective mode. In those embodiments the group administrator can allow at least some of the members in the group to send text messages to the group. In those embodiments any number of group members e.g. one or more can have the privilege to broadcast text messages to the rest of the group while the remaining group members are in the listen only mode. Finally in some embodiments the group can be set in full participation mode in which case every group member is permitted to send text messages to the entire group.

Furthermore in some embodiments membership to join a group texting session can be open. Alternately in some embodiments a group administrator can impose partial or full restrictions e.g. invitation or consent based on group membership. Returning to the NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com group profile described in the earlier example. In some embodiments membership to that group can be open. This means that in some embodiments any fan at the game can text a keyword e.g. JOIN to NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com to become a member of the group. Conversely group members can text a different keyword e.g. DROP to NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com to leave the group. In various embodiments text messages directed toward joining or leaving a group texting session are not broadcast or shared with the members of the group and do not become a part of the group s chat history thread or transcript.

In some embodiments a group administrator is able to conduct a poll during a group texting session. In order to conduct a poll the group administrator can include one or more questions in text messages broadcast to the group. For example at the football game the group administrator can send a text message to the NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com group asking group members to nominate a MVP for the game. In one exemplary embodiment text messages from group members in response to the poll question s are not broadcast to the entire group. That is in one exemplary embodiment individual responses are not shared with the group. However in one exemplary embodiment group members can view the collective responses or overall poll results e.g. 32 Player A 28 Player B and 40 Player C .

In some embodiments membership to join a group texting session can be made by invitation only. That is in some embodiments only users who have been specifically invited by a group administrator can become a member of the group. For example the group administrator for the NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com group can extend invitations to a select group of individuals e.g. season pass holders to join the group. In other embodiments membership to a join a group texting session can be contingent upon the approval of the group administrator. For example fans interested in communicating using the NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com group profile must first submit a membership request to the group administrator and be approved by the group administrator in order to participate in the group texting session.

In various embodiments group members have access to some or all of the group s chat transcript thread or history. In some embodiments group members can view only a select portion e.g. the most recent 20 minutes of the group s chat transcript thread or history. In other embodiments group members are given access to sliding scale sections of the group s chat transcript thread or history. For example although fans that have joined the NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com group texting session have access to the group s entire chat transcript thread or history only 20 minute portions of the chat transcript thread or history can be viewed at any one time. It is to be understood that in various embodiments a group administrator has the ability to change one or both of participation and membership modes at any time. For example the NINERSvsCHARGERS TruText.com group can be set to operate in the broadcast mode during gameplay but the group administrator can change the group to operate in the full participation mode during breaks time outs and halftime. In addition although the foregoing examples describe a single group administrator it is to be understood that in various other embodiments any number of individuals can share group administrator duties workload or responsibilities. That is in some embodiments a group texting session can be managed and mediated by more than one group administrator.

As described earlier with respect to in various embodiments the platform is communicatively coupled with the database . In various embodiments the platform is configured to archive in the database at least some of the text messages routed between users through the platform . For example in various embodiments the platform archives partial or full threads transcripts or histories of the text messages exchanged between Alice and Bob. In fact in various embodiments the platform archives at least some of the text messages that have been sent to and from some or all of a user s separate profiles. For instance in various embodiments the platform archives the text massages that have been sent to and from Alice TruText.com and Alice.Jones.Esq TruText.com. As such in various embodiments a user like Alice can request to view any specific text message or sets of text messages from the archives maintained in the database .

In various embodiments the application provides an interface that enables the user to send requests to the platform to retrieve one or more text messages archived in the database . In some embodiments for example the application can provide a set of GUI control elements e.g. scrollbar radio buttons checkboxes etc. that correspond to various archival functions. In some embodiments in order to facilitate the user s selection process the application is configured display or present series and or combinations of options that enable a user to choose individual text messages or groups of text messages. For instance in some embodiments the application can prompt Alice to choose from different profiles e.g. Alice TruText.com Alice.Jones.Esq TruText.com recipients e.g. Bob Charlie and or chronologies e.g. dates times . As one example Alice can select via the application one or more text messages that were exchanged with Bob using her Alice TruText.com profile. Alternately in another example Alice can request to view a series of text messages that she had exchanged with Charlie on a certain date e.g. Aug. 22 2014 and during a specified time period e.g. 5 6 PM .

In various embodiments a user s request to view a selection of earlier text messages is first transmitted to the platform . In various embodiments the platform processes and responds to the request for certain archived messages including by retrieving the requested text messages from the database and transmitting the requested text messages back to the user. In various embodiments the application is further configured to display the request selection of archived text messages to the user. In various embodiments in addition or instead of retrieving and displaying archived text messages the application can provide a user the option to email or forward via separate text message a selection of one or more archived text messages.

In various embodiments the application further provides the option to save one or more archived text messages to a folder. In various embodiments the user can choose either specific text messages or specific threads of text messages to add to a folder. In various embodiments folders represent an organizational tool. For example in some embodiments Alice can create folders to store text messages between her and Charlie that pertain to specific work projects. It is to be understood that in at least some embodiments storing one or more archived text messages to a folder merely creates a data reference or pointer to the original storage location of the one or more text messages in Database . That is in some embodiments storing an archived message to a folder does not generate an additional copy of the text message or cause a change in actual data storage location. In some embodiments the application provides each user at least one standard or default folder. In one exemplary embodiment the application additionally or alternately permits users to create one or more custom or personalized folders and or sub folders.

In various embodiments a registered user can both send and receive text messages from someone who is not registered to use the services provided by the platform . A non registered sender can in various embodiments simply send a text or email message to a registered user using any one of the registered user s profile names or handles. Suppose Dave is not registered with the platform in various embodiments he would send a message to either Alice TruText.com or Alice.Jones.Esq TruText.com as he would a SMS text message or an email.

In some embodiments a text message from a registered user to a non registered recipient is delivered to the non registered recipient as a conventional email or text message. That is in some embodiments the platform acts as a gateway in routing the message between the two parties including by converting the text message from the registered users into an email or a SMS text message. In other embodiments instead of the actual message from the registered user the platform delivers instead a notification message to the non registered recipient. In some embodiments the notification message can include a portion of the original text message from the registered user. Alternately or in addition in various embodiments the notification message can include an invitation to the non registered recipient to sign up or register for the services provided by the platform . In some embodiments in order to view the text message a non registered recipient must sign up or register for the services provided by the platform . In other embodiments a non registered recipient can choose to bypass the sign up or registration process. In one embodiment instead of signing up or registering for the service the non registered recipient can request that the text message from the registered user be forwarded via an alternate medium e.g. SMS text message email . In another embodiment the non registered recipient can bypass the sign up or registration and still download and install a limited function application in order to view the text message from the registered user. In various embodiments the limited function application is a condensed abridged or shell version of the application e.g. the application Lite . In various embodiments the lite version of the application provides a limited roster of only basic functionalities such as viewing or replying to a text message from a registered user.

The device preferably includes one or more processors such as a processor . Additional processors can be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors can be discrete processors or can be integrated with the processor . Examples of processors which can be used with the device include without limitation the Pentium processor Core i7 processor and Xeon processor all of which are available from Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif.

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . Communication Bus can include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the device . The communication bus further can provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus can comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

The device preferably includes a main memory and can also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor such as one or more of the functions and or modules discussed above. It should be understood that programs stored in the memory and executed by the processor can be written and or compiled according to any suitable language including without limitation C C Java JavaScript Pearl Visual Basic .NET and the like. The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory can optionally include an internal memory and or a removable storage medium for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive other optical drive a flash memory drive etc. The removable storage medium is read from and or written to in a well known manner. The removable storage medium can be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD SD card etc.

The removable storage medium can be a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data e.g. for implementing at least a portion of the subject matter described herein . The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the device for execution by the processor .

In alternative embodiments the secondary memory can include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the device . Such means can include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of the external storage medium can include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of the secondary memory can include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other forms of the removable storage media and the communication interface which allow software and data to be transferred from an external medium to the device .

The device can include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between the device and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code can be transferred to the device from a network server via the communication interface . Examples of the communication interface include a built in network adapter network interface card NIC Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter Universal Serial Bus USB network adapter modem a network interface card NIC a wireless data card a communications port an infrared interface an IEEE 1394 fire wire or any other device capable of interfacing the device with a network or another computing device.

The communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but can also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via the communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . Such signals are preferably provided to the communication interface via a communication channel . In one embodiment the communication channel can be a wired or wireless network or any variety of other communication links. The communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via the communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the device to perform the various functions such as those described herein.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any non transitory computer readable storage media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the device . Examples of these media include the main memory the secondary memory including the internal memory the removable medium and the external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with the communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These non transitory computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the device .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software can be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into the device by way of the removable medium an I O interface or a communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the device in the form of electrical communication Signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

In an embodiment the I O interface provides an interface between one or more components of the device and one or more input and or output devices. Example input devices include without limitation keyboards touch screens or other touch sensitive devices biometric sensing devices computer mice trackballs pen based pointing devices camera microphone and the like. Examples of output devices include without limitation cathode ray tubes CRTs plasma displays light emitting diode LED displays liquid crystal displays LCDs printers vacuum florescent displays VFDs surface conduction electron emitter displays SEDs field emission displays FEDs and the like.

The device also includes optional wireless communication components that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and over a data network. The wireless communication components can comprise an antenna system a radio system a baseband system or any combination thereof. In the device radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system can comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system can comprise one or more radios that are configured to communicate over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system can combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information the baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to a speaker. The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from a microphone. These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and can pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the Antenna System where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the processor . The processor has access to the main memory and the secondary memory . The processor is preferably configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the main memory or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the main memory or in the secondary memory or be executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the device to perform the various functions such as those described herein. For example the main memory and secondary memory can each include various software modules not shown .

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules functions and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

Computing Device can be communicatively coupled to Input User Interface and Output Device Interface . Either one or both of Input User Interface and Output Device Interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input User Interface can include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output Device Interface can include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations Input User Interface and Output Device Interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to Computing Device . In other example implementations other computing devices can function as or provide the functions of Input User Interface and Output Device Interface for Computing Device .

Examples of Computing Device can include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing Device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O Interface to External Storage and Network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing Device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O Interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in Computing Environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing Device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing Device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions in some example computing environments. Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can originate from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. One or more applications can be deployed that include Logic Unit Application Programming Interface API unit Input Unit Output Unit User Management Information Exchange Module and Database Inter Unit Communication Mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API Unit it can be communicated to one or more other units e.g. Logic Unit Input Unit Output Unit User Management Information Exchange Module and Database . For example after Input Unit has received via Network device MAC addresses and or user information Input Unit can use API Unit to communicate the information to User Management . User Management can via API Unit interact with the Logic Unit to store or update in Database correlated data between individual user information and corresponding MAC addresses of each user s device. User Management also can via API Unit interact with Logic Unit to retrieve from Database individual user information that corresponds to specific device MAC addresses. Output Unit can subsequently transmit the individual user information via Network .

In some instances Logic Unit can be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API Unit Input Unit Output Unit User Management and Database . For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations can be controlled by Logic Unit alone or in conjunction with API Unit .

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or can make use of personal information the users can be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that can be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data can be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity can be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location can be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user can have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

Any of the software components described herein may take a variety of forms. For example a component may be a stand alone software package or it may be a software package incorporated as a tool in a larger software product. It may be downloadable from a network for example a website as a stand alone product or as an add in package for installation in an existing software application. It may also be available as a client server software application as a web enabled software application and or as a mobile application.

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes can be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules functions and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

Any of the software components described herein may take a variety of forms. For example a component may be a stand alone software package or it may be a software package incorporated as a tool in a larger software product. It may be downloadable from a network for example a website as a stand alone product or as an add in package for installation in an existing software application. It may also be available as a client server software application as a web enabled software application and or as a mobile application.

While certain embodiments have been described above it will be understood that the embodiments described are by way of example only. Accordingly the systems and methods described herein should not be limited based on the described embodiments. Rather the systems and methods described herein should only be limited in light of the claims that follow when taken in conjunction with the above description and accompanying drawings.

