---

title: Techniques for analyzing operations of one or more restaurants
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide techniques for using operational data and/or video footage to identify and diagnose operational issues. In some embodiments, business metrics represented in data produced by a restaurant's operational systems are identified and stored, conditions which warrant attention are identified, and the metrics that may indicate potential causes for those conditions are identified. Video footage may be correlated with business metric data to assist in diagnosing and remediating issues.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336830&OS=09336830&RS=09336830
owner: Panera, LLC
number: 09336830
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151228
---
This application is a continuation of commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 032 701 filed Sep. 20 2013 entitled TECHNIQUES FOR ANALYZING OPERATIONS OF ONE OR MORE RESTAURANTS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Many restaurants and restaurant chains employ automated systems to collect operational data such as systems designed to monitor kitchen operations or to collect data on a customer s experience within the restaurant such as point of sale systems. Typically the data produced by these systems is loaded to a centralized business analytics platform for examination by analysts who query the data to attempt to identify trends business opportunities etc. Often this type of analysis is performed on large volumes of data collected from numerous restaurants long after the data has been collected.

The inventors have appreciated a need to provide meaningful information guidance and assistance to employees responsible for managing restaurant operations as operational issues arise. The inventors have further appreciated that existing tools e.g. operational systems which produce voluminous amounts of data centralized business analytics platforms and techniques e.g. attempting to identify opportunities for operational improvement by querying large volumes of centrally stored data long after the data is collected are ill suited to satisfying this need. Accordingly some embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for using operational data to identify and diagnose operational issues in real or near real time so that meaningful information guidance and assistance may be provided.

For example some embodiments of the invention provide the capability to identify and store key business metrics represented in data produced by a restaurant s operational systems to identify conditions which warrant attention and to identify the metric s that indicate potential causes for those conditions. As such embodiments of the invention may serve to focus an employee s e.g. a restaurant manager s attention on the information that most likely explains why an operational problem is occurring as it is occurring. Some embodiments of the invention may issue recommendations on how to fix the problem and or may address aspects of the problem automatically without employee intervention.

In some embodiments of the invention video footage may be captured of occurrences in the restaurant and this video may be correlated with business metric data to assist in diagnosing and remediating operational issues. For example once a condition warranting attention is identified a review of video footage of processes which have been preliminarily identified as potential causes for the condition e.g. using the data driven analysis described above may reveal that the condition results from a different issue than what was originally suspected. The video footage may also for example reveal the appropriate steps to take to address the condition. Moreover review of the video footage may indicate additional types of analysis to be performed in the future to reduce the likelihood that the condition will arise again and or additional types of information that may be collected to support the analysis. In addition the video footage may be a valuable tool in training employees to avoid the causes for the condition going forward.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a method for use in a system comprising at least one repository storing data relating to operations of a restaurant and a video capture system for capturing video footage depicting operations of the restaurant. The data comprises information relating to a plurality of events and a plurality of alert conditions including a first alert condition. The method comprises acts of A identifying from among the plurality of events one or more events occurring substantially contemporaneously with the first alert condition B identifying video footage captured by the video capture system corresponding to the one or more events and C causing the video footage corresponding to the one or more events to be displayed via a review interface to a user.

Other embodiments of the invention provide at least one non transitory storage device storing instructions which when executed in a system comprising at least one repository storing data relating to operations of a restaurant and a video capture system for capturing video footage depicting operations of the restaurant the data comprising information relating to a plurality of events and a plurality of alert conditions including a first alert condition perform a method comprising acts of A identifying from among the plurality of events one or more events occurring substantially contemporaneously with the first alert condition B identifying video footage corresponding to the one or more events and C causing the video footage corresponding to the one or more events to be displayed via a review interface to a user.

Other embodiments of the invention provide a computer system comprising at least one repository storing data relating to operations of a restaurant the data comprising information relating to a plurality of events and a plurality of alert conditions including a first alert condition a video capture system for capturing video footage depicting operations of the restaurant and at least one computer processor programmed to identify from among the plurality of events one or more events occurring substantially contemporaneously with the first alert condition identify video footage corresponding to the one or more events and cause the video footage corresponding to the one or more events to be displayed via a review interface to a user.

The foregoing provides a non limiting overview of certain embodiments of the invention. Some embodiments of the invention are defined in the attached claims.

Some embodiments of the invention provide techniques for using operational data and or video footage to identify and diagnose operational issues. In this respect some embodiments provide the capability to identify and store key business metrics represented in data produced by a restaurant s operational systems to identify conditions which warrant attention and to identify the metrics that indicate potential causes for those conditions. As such embodiments of the invention may serve to focus attention on the information that most likely explains why an operational problem is occurring as it is occurring. Video footage may be correlated with the business metric data to assist in diagnosing and remediating issues. For example once a condition warranting attention is identified a review of video footage of processes or situations which have been preliminarily identified as potential causes for the condition based on data driven analysis may reveal that the condition is caused by another issue entirely. By correlating video and data embodiments of the invention may provide powerful tools for issue diagnosis and remediation.

Operational data store ODS receives and stores data produced by operational systems . In some implementations ODS may store any suitable information. For example ODS may store the date and time composition of individual transactions e.g. measured by transaction start time stored at tender time sent to line time worked at line time sent to expediter time delivered to customer and or the time of any other suitable occurrence relating to a transaction item information associated with each transactions e.g. including item codes for items included in each transaction modifiers additions to or subtractions from an item requested by a customer and or any other suitable item information employee information associated with individual transactions e.g. the employee code s for the cashier or associate who received the customer s order the code s for production expediter and or backer employees who handled a transaction during preparation and or any other suitable employee information and or other information. Although ODS is depicted in as a single repository the data included in ODS may be distributed across any suitable number of data stores. Data may be stored in ODS using any suitable tools and or techniques.

Event engine also receives data produced by operational systems . In accordance with some embodiments of the invention event engine executes queries on data produced by operational systems to identify and summarize key business metrics. In the description that follows business metrics may also be referred to as events although it is to be understood that an event may relate to more than one occurrence or transaction or to no specific occurrence at all. The terms event and metric are used herein interchangeably. In some embodiments event engine executes queries on data produced by operational systems so that queries need not be executed on ODS to support later analysis. In this respect it should be appreciated that ODS may store large amounts of data so that query execution may be time consuming.

Event engine may identify and or summarize any suitable metric s represented in the data produced by operational systems . Some basic examples include speed of service measures for specific intervals relating to a transaction e.g. the amount of time between an order being opened and tender occurring the amount of time between a make line position receiving the order and the order being bumped to the next position the amount of time between an expediter receiving the order and the order being bumped to the next position the amount of time between the order being received and customer delivery occurring the total service time the amount of time between a drive through order being received and pickup occurring the amount of time between an order being ready and delivery occurring to the customer s table home or business and or any other suitable intervals bump activity for various make line locations e.g. total preparation times for salads Panini sandwiches and or any other suitable bump measures and labor shift metrics e.g. current and trending labor burn rate current and trending production velocity current and trending transaction counts manager on duty number of employees currently in training and or any other suitable labor shift metrics . In representative system the results of the filtering and pre analysis performed by event engine is stored in event data . As with ODS although event data is depicted in as a single repository the data stored thereby may be distributed logically and or physically across any suitable number of data stores and such data may be stored using any suitable tools and or techniques.

In some embodiments of the invention the queries executed by event engine may be defined using event interface . Specifically in some embodiments event interface enables a user e.g. an analyst executive restaurant manager and or any other suitable resource to define constructs representing metrics to be captured by event engine . These constructs may be defined in any suitable way s . For example in some embodiments a construct may be defined using logical operations such as Boolean functions. A simple example of a Boolean function used to identify when data produced by operational systems indicates that a speed of service measure for a particular menu item is too long is shown below. In this example if the speed of service measure for transactions associated with a particular menu item exceeds five minutes then an event named speed of service too slow is created and stored in event data .

It should be appreciated that a construct used to represent business metrics to be captured by event engine need not be defined using Boolean functions. Any suitable technique s may be employed to identify and or summarize key business metrics from data produced by operational systems.

Event interface may be implemented using any suitable collection of hardware and or software components. For example event interface may comprise a standalone application suitable for execution on a desktop computer e.g. sitting in a restaurant manager s office a web based application running on a computer e.g. server computer accessible over a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network or some combination thereof an app suitable for execution on a mobile device e.g. a smartphone tablet computer and or other mobile device and or any other suitable collection comprising hardware and or software components. Embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular manner of implementation.

In representative system event data is accessed by alert engine to identify alert conditions represented in event data . An alert condition may for example be any condition which indicates an operational issue.

A condition represented in event data may constitute an alert condition for any of numerous reasons. For example an alert condition may comprise one or more metrics stored in event data which satisfy a predetermined threshold e.g. by reaching an event count representing a predefined percent deviation from a previously observed norm and or satisfying another threshold . Satisfaction of a threshold may for example be evaluated in relation to a given time period e.g. a day day portion predefined interval etc. . Thus to constitute an alert condition a count of a certain event during a specific time period may exceed a predetermined threshold count.

In representative system alert engine executes queries on event data to identify alert conditions. In some embodiments of the invention the queries executed by alert engine may be defined using alert interface . For example alert interface may enable a user e.g. an analyst executive restaurant manager and or any other suitable resource to define constructs representing alert conditions to be captured by alert engine . As with event interface a construct may be defined using logical operations such as Boolean functions. A simple example of a Boolean function used to identify an alert condition indicating that the count of speed of service too slow events described above exceeds a predefined threshold count of six is shown below. In this example when the defined alert condition is satisfied an alert named menu item SOS opportunity is created and stored in alert data .

In some embodiments alert interface enables notifications to be sent when alert conditions are satisfied. For example a user who defines an alert condition may indicate that when the condition is satisfied a notification should be sent to certain other employees a distribution group a certain device e.g. a mobile device and or any other suitable resource s . Thus when one alert condition is satisfied a notification may be sent to the restaurant manager when another when one alert condition is satisfied a notification may be sent to an executive etc. Alert notifications may be configured in any suitable fashion.

As with event interface alert interface may be implemented using any suitable collection of hardware and or software components as embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect.

Whether a condition represented in event data constitutes an alert condition may be defined in absolute terms as in the example query above or in variable terms. To illustrate the distinction consider an example event metric representing the speed of service measure for transactions relating to sandwich orders. A representative alert condition defined in absolute terms may for example indicate that the condition is satisfied if the speed of service for a particular sandwich order exceeds a certain predefined amount of time e.g. five minutes . A representative alert condition defined in variable terms for this metric may for example be based on a comparison between the speed of service measure for one sandwich order and speed of service for other sandwich orders. For example an alert condition may exist if the speed of service measure for a particular sandwich order deviates from the average speed of service measure across other sandwich orders e.g. all other sandwich orders other sandwich orders placed within a certain time period and or any other suitable subset by a predetermined percentage. Because presumably the average speed of service for sandwich orders changes over time the amount of time by which a particular sandwich order must deviate from the average to constitute an alert condition also varies.

Of course an alert condition defined in variable terms need not be based on a comparison between one event metric and other events metrics. Continuing with the speed of service example to illustrate an alert condition for speed of service for a sandwich order may be defined using a threshold amount of time which varies over the course of the day. The threshold amount of time may for example be longer during busy periods for the restaurant as it may be expected that the restaurant s operations will slow down overall during these periods and shorter during less busy periods indicating less tolerance for completing customer orders slowly during these periods . Alert conditions may vary in any suitable way as embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect.

It should be appreciated that defining alert conditions in variable terms may make alert notifications more meaningful to recipients. For example if a restaurant manager received an alert notification each time the speed of service measure for a sandwich order exceeded a predetermined static amount of time then during certain periods e.g. busy times during the day the notifications might be sent almost constantly and after a period the manager may choose to ignore them. By sending notifications only when an underlying alert condition is warranted some embodiments of the invention may make the notification more meaningful and or place the underlying alert condition in greater context.

In representative system inference engine analyzes information stored in alert data and event data to identify relationships between business metrics and alert conditions. Specifically inference engine analyzes information in event data to identify business metrics which indicate possible causes for an alert condition reflected in alert data . A representative process for identifying business metrics which may indicate causes for an alert condition is depicted in .

At the start of representative process in act other alert conditions which are similar in some respect to the considered alert condition are identified. In this respect the inventors have appreciated that evaluating other alert conditions which are similar in some respect to the considered alert condition may enable more accurate statistical analysis than evaluating only a single alert condition in isolation since evaluating only a single alert condition may lead to a misdiagnosis of the metric s that contributed to its occurring. By analyzing multiple alert conditions in aggregate embodiments of the invention may identify the metric s that have correlated most strongly with the alert condition over time.

Identifying alert conditions which are similar to the considered alert condition in some respect may be performed in any of numerous ways. For example the other alert conditions may share one or more common characteristics reflected in alert data with the considered alert condition. For example if the considered alert condition relates to speed of service measures for sandwich orders then the other alert conditions which are identified in act may also relate to speed of service measures for sandwich orders. The other alert conditions may for example be identified by querying alert data .

In some embodiments the other alert conditions may have occurred previous to the considered alert condition. For example evaluating alert conditions which occurred previous to the considered alert condition may provide useful insight into the business metrics that historically have correlated to the type of alert condition over time. However embodiments of the invention are not so limited as other alert conditions may have any suitable temporal relationship to the considered alert condition.

Representative process then proceeds to act wherein relationships between the alert conditions identified in act and business metrics are identified. Relationships may be identified in any of numerous ways. For example relationships between alert conditions and business metrics may be identified based at least in part on institutional knowledge. In this respect inference engine may for example apply business rules which codify known relationships between certain types of alert conditions and certain events or metrics which are observed substantially contemporaneously with alert conditions. For example a business rule may specify that if an alert condition relates to the speed of service measure for sandwich orders exceeding a threshold amount of time and information stored in event data indicates that at around the time the alert condition occurred sales per labor hour exceeds a particular dollar amount then an inference may be drawn that the restaurant is likely understaffed. As such inference engine may issue a recommendation to the restaurant manager to call in additional staff to work.

Relationships between business metrics and alert conditions need not be identified based on institutional knowledge. For example statistical analysis may be performed to identify metrics indicating possible causes for alert conditions. Continuing with the example of an alert condition relating to the speed of service for sandwich orders exceeding a threshold amount of time if information stored in event data indicates that at around the time the alert condition occurred sales per labor hour is at acceptable levels then other potential causes may be investigated. As such inference engine may analyze metrics stored in event data to identify potential causes for the rise in speed of service to identify the metric s that correlate most strongly to the alert condition over time.

Statistical analysis may take any suitable form and correlations may be identified using any suitable statistical technique s . In some embodiments elimination queries may be executed to identify correlations between alert conditions and events metrics which occurred or were recorded at the same time the alert conditions were recorded. Of course embodiments of the invention are not limited to employing elimination queries as any suitable technique for identifying correlations may be employed.

Representative process then proceeds to act wherein relationships between the considered alert condition and business metrics are displayed. For example inference engine may cause an indication of the relationships to be displayed by review interface . This may take any of numerous forms. For example if statistical analysis was used in act to identify the relationships then act may involve review interface displaying a rank ordered list showing business metric s which historically correlate most strongly to the alert condition. Act may also or alternatively involve review interface displaying recommendations e.g. to a restaurant manager on actions that may be taken to remediate the alert condition. Any suitable information may be displayed.

Review interface may comprise any suitable interface comprised of any suitable collection of hardware and or software components. For example review interface may comprise a standalone application which executes on a desktop computer in the restaurant manager s office a mobile web application executing on a server and accessed via a mobile device executing a browser application e.g. a smartphone tablet device etc. an app which executes on a mobile device and or any other hardware and or software components.

It should be appreciated that identifying and displaying relationships between business metrics and alert conditions may make remediation more effective. For example if analysis of an alert condition relating to speed of service measures for sandwich orders indicates during the time that speed of service began to get longer the number of customers arriving at the restaurant also rose markedly that there was a relatively large number of employees on break and that several of the employees that were working were focused on delivery orders rather than incoming foot traffic then this may lead to a recommendation that employees be deployed differently to place more focus on the orders causing speed of service to rise. By contrast a common reaction by restaurant managers to increases in speed of service is to call more staff in to work which results in increased labor costs. By more effectively diagnosing the true cause for the rise in speed of service as employee station deployment rather than the restaurant being presently understaffed embodiments of the invention may make remediation more effective and enable cost savings to be achieved in comparison to typical remediation efforts.

Some embodiments of the invention provide the capability to not only make recommendations on issue remediation but to perform such remediation automatically. For example given an alert condition relating to speed of service for sandwich orders exceeding a threshold amount of time an analysis of event data may indicate that speed of service is longest for e commerce orders. As a result system parameters relating to e commerce orders may be modified to deal with the issue. For example inference engine may automatically modify the system parameter which controls the lead time that customers who place e commerce orders are instructed to give before attempting to pick up their orders. For example if the normal amount of suggest lead time given to customers is twelve minutes then the system parameter may be changed to instruct customers to give fifteen minutes of lead time instead. Doing so may provide preparation staff more time to assemble subsequent orders and help conditions settle down.

It should be appreciated that automatically resolving issues arising in the restaurant rather than merely issuing recommendations to a manager on how to resolve them may be extremely valuable because alert conditions are often most prevalent during busy periods which is usually when the manager has the least amount of time and mental bandwidth to consult recommendations on how to resolve them. By addressing or ameliorating the issue automatically some embodiments of the invention free the manager to focus on other tasks.

It should also be appreciated that any of numerous types of remediation actions may be taken automatically. For example system parameters may be automatically modified instructions to employees may be automatically issued load balancing procedures may be automatically invoked and or any other type of action s may be taken as embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect.

Returning to representative system also includes video capture system which may include components for capturing information useful for diagnosing operational issues and devising strategies for resolving them. Video capture system may include one or more video capture devices e.g. video surveillance cameras which capture video footage depicting various aspects of restaurant operations. For example video capture system may capture video footage of point of sale transactions order preparation processes dining areas and or any other suitable occurrences and or locations. In representative system video capture system captures video footage relating to events stored in event data and stores the video footage in video repository which may comprise any suitable storage component s and employ any suitable storage technique s .

In representative system inference engine correlates video footage stored in video repository to event data and alert data . Correlation of video footage to event and alert data may have any of numerous uses. For example video footage relating to metrics preliminarily identified as potential root causes for an alert condition i.e. using the data driven techniques described above may provide evidence which either substantiates the preliminary diagnosis or indicates that the event was not actually a cause of the alert condition. It should be appreciated then that the ability to correlate subjective observational data with objective information stored in event data and alert data may prevent misdiagnosis of operational issues. For example a restaurant manager investigating the cause of long speed of service measures for Panini orders may conclude based only on alert data and event data that the Panini press operator is to blame e.g. because event data suggests that the press operator makes Panini more slowly than other comparably trained employees do . However an examination of video footage of the Panini preparation station may reveal that the press operator is actually working as efficiently as other employees but that the bin which stores the butter used to lubricate the press is consistently running out during the operator s shift on the press so that he keeps needing to ask to have it refilled which slows him down. In this example a purely data driven approach would cause the issue to be misdiagnosed and the press operator to be unjustly blamed. By correlating video to the data the true root cause i.e. that the butter bin is not being filled frequently enough during the press operator s shift may be revealed.

Also once the root cause of an alert condition is identified video footage depicting the root condition may serve as a useful training tool. For example a restaurant manager may show video footage depicting the press operator waiting for the butter bin to be filled and data showing the effect on speed of service measures to the employee responsible for filling the bin so that he understands the consequences of it not being filled on time.

In some embodiments at least some of the records stored in event data and alert data include date and time stamps. A date and time stamp for a record may indicate for example when the record was first produced and stored in the associated repository. In addition video footage stored in video repository also includes date and time stamps. As a result the date and time stamp for an alert or event record may be used to retrieve corresponding video footage e.g. having a corresponding date and time stamp from video repository .

Of course a date and time stamp for video footage need not exactly match a date and time stamp for an alert or event record. For example it may be desirable to retrieve video footage captured just before and or just after an alert or event was recorded. As an example if the date and time stamp for an alert or event record indicates it was recorded at a particular time then video footage having a date and time stamp indicating it was captured starting thirty seconds prior to that time and ending thirty seconds after that time may be retrieved. The date and time stamps for an alert or event record and for corresponding video footage may have any suitable relationship as embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect.

Other information may also or alternatively be used to retrieve video footage which corresponds to an alert or event record. For example if data included in an alert or event record to be analyzed indicates that it originated from a point of sale terminal then this information may be used to identify the video footage to be retrieved e.g. footage which shows the terminal . Similarly if data included in an alert or event record indicates that it originated from a kitchen management system then this information may be used to identify the video footage to be retrieved e.g. footage that shows the restaurant s food preparation area . Any suitable information may be used to retrieve video footage from video repository .

At the completion of act representative process proceeds to act wherein video footage and or data corresponding to the alert condition s and or event s is displayed. In some embodiments video footage and or data may be displayed via review interface although any suitable display device s may be employed.

Display of video footage and or data correlating to the alert condition s and or event s may have any of numerous uses. In this respect as noted above a review of video footage corresponding to events metrics or processes preliminarily identified as root causes for an alert condition may provide evidence which either supports or disproves the initial hypothesis making it less likely that an operational issue is misdiagnosed. As an example assume that an alert condition relating to speed of service measures for Panini orders is to be analyzed. Act may involve displaying video footage to a restaurant manager of an employee operating the Panini press from 11 15 a.m. to 11 17 a.m. based on an initial hypothesis that variations in speed of service measures for Panini orders are the result of the Panini press operator not following prescribed preparation procedures at around this time e.g. because event data indicates that the operator had to re make several Panini during this timeframe . Reviewing the video footage may assist the restaurant manager in determining whether the alert condition was in fact the result of the press operator not following protocol for Panini preparation.

When act completes representative process proceeds to act wherein user input relating to the video footage and or data displayed in act is received. Input may take any of numerous forms. For example in some embodiments the input may include an indication whether or not video footage and or data displayed in the act is useful in analyzing the considered alert condition and or event such as if the video footage and or data depicts or describes the root cause of the alert condition and or event. Continuing with the example given in the preceding paragraph to illustrate if video footage shown to the restaurant manager depicts the press operator making Panini according to prescribed procedures and the restaurant manager also knows that the alert condition resulted from the Panini press accidentally losing power which she remembers discovering just after the timeframe which is captured on video then act may involve the restaurant manager indicating that the video footage did not capture the cause of the alert condition.

It should be appreciated that even if the input received in act indicates that video footage and or data displayed in act did not depict or describe the cause of an operational issue that input may be useful in diagnosing operational issues going forward. For example the user s input may serve as tacit acknowledgement that an alert condition or event was properly identified for their review even if the video footage and or data does not depict or describe the cause of the alert condition or event. Additionally the user s input may point to additional analysis which could be performed e.g. by alert engine and or inference engine and or data which could be captured e.g. by event engine to more effectively diagnose operational issues going forward. For example if the user s input in act includes an indication of the actual cause of the alert condition or event e.g. if the restaurant manager in this example provided text input indicating that the actual cause for the slow down in preparing Panini orders was that the press accidentally lost power then event engine may be modified to collect event data relating to power supplied to the Panini press alert engine may be modified to incorporate an alert condition based on power supply to the Panini press and or inference engine may be modified to correlate speed of service measures relating to Panini orders with power supply to the Panini press. As a result embodiments of the invention may over time become more effective at identifying the occurrence and cause of operational issues as well as the information which the user considers relevant. As such embodiments of the invention may reduce incorrect diagnoses and limit the amount of information which the user is asked to process to only that information which is truly relevant or important thereby freeing the user s time and mental bandwidth to focus on other issues.

At the completion of act representative process proceeds to act wherein a determination is made whether there is additional video footage and or data to be displayed to the user. If it is determined that there is no additional video footage and or data to be displayed then representative process completes. If it is determined however that there is additional video footage and or data to be displayed to the user representative process proceeds to act wherein a determination is made whether any change should be made to the additional video footage and or data based on the input received in the act . Again using the above example to illustrate if the restaurant manager s input in act indicates that video footage of the Panini press shown to her in act does not depict the actual cause of the slowdown on Panini orders then other video clips which also depict the Panini press may be removed from video footage which had previously been identified for display to her. Any of numerous types of changes may be made to additional video footage and or data based on input received from a user.

If it is determined in the act that a change is to be made then representative process proceeds to act wherein the change is made. At the completion of the change or if it is determined in act that no change is to be made representative process returns to act wherein the additional video footage and or data is displayed to the user. Representative process then proceeds on from act as described above.

It should be appreciated that the representative processes and shown in respectively represent only examples of processes for performing the described functions and that any of numerous variations are possible. For example either of representative processes or may include acts not described above may not include all of the acts described above and or may include the acts described above being performed in a different sequence than that which is described above.

It should also be appreciated that although the description above relates to one installation of representative system being used in one restaurant not all embodiments of the invention are so limited. For example a system for analyzing restaurant operations may analyze data produced in multiple restaurants or a single restaurant may employ multiple systems. Any of multiple modes of implementation may be used.

As should be apparent from the foregoing description some aspects of the invention may be implemented using a computing system. illustrates an example of a suitable computing system environment which may be used to implement aspects of the invention. The computing system environment shown in is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment .

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The computing environment may execute computer executable instructions such as program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an example system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through an non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through a output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art.

Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Further though advantages of the present invention are indicated it should be appreciated that not every embodiment of the invention will include every described advantage. Some embodiments may not implement any features described as advantageous herein and in some instances. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers. Such processors may be implemented as integrated circuits with one or more processors in an integrated circuit component. Though a processor may be implemented using circuitry in any suitable format.

Further it should be appreciated that a computer may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Additionally a computer may be embedded in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities including a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone or any other suitable portable or fixed electronic device.

Also a computer may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form including as a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the invention may be embodied as a computer readable storage medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs CD optical discs digital video disks DVD magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other tangible computer storage medium encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. As is apparent from the foregoing examples a computer readable storage medium may retain information for a sufficient time to provide computer executable instructions in a non transitory form. Such a computer readable storage medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. As used herein the term computer readable storage medium encompasses only a computer readable medium that can be considered to be a manufacture i.e. article of manufacture or a machine. Alternatively or additionally the invention may be embodied as a computer readable medium other than a computer readable storage medium such as a propagating signal.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

