---

title: Trusted signaling in 3GPP interfaces in a network function virtualization wireless communication system
abstract: A method for providing a trusted communication link in a wireless network. A mobility management entity (MME) interface of a MME virtualized network function (VNF) receives a trusted communication request. A MME interface trustlet is allocated to execute in a trusted security zone of compute resources provided by a virtual computing environment in which the MME VNF executes. The MME interface trustlet establishes trusted signaling with two or more different VNFs provided by virtual servers executing in the virtual computing environment. The MME interface trustlet sends a trust token to the eNB to establish the trusted communication link from the eNB via a virtualized network function path through the virtual computing environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578664&OS=09578664&RS=09578664
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09578664
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150622
---
This is a continuation in part CIP Patent Application claiming priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 762 319 filed Mar. 7 2013 entitled Trusted Signaling in Long Term Evolution LTE 4G Wireless Communication by Stephen J. Bye et al. which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Electronic communications may carry a wide variety of content for example electronic mail medical records financial transactions and other confidential information. The electronic communications may travel for some of the communication end to end path over unsecured communication links where the content may be subject to tampering or intrusion. A variety of security measures have been applied to provide increased security and to raise the level of difficulty for nefarious actors attempting to access the confidential information.

In an embodiment a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted security is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a trusted communication request from an enhanced node B eNB by a serving gateway interface application where the serving gateway interface application is part of a serving gateway virtualized network function provided by a virtual server executing in a virtual computing environment and determining by a security monitor module of the serving gateway virtualized network function that a trusted communication request has been received where the security monitor executes in a trusted security zone of compute resources provided by the virtual computing environment and wherein the trusted security zone provides hardware assisted security. The method further comprises allocating a serving gateway interface trustlet by the security monitor to handle the trusted communication request of the enhanced node B where the serving gateway interface trustlet executes in the trusted security zone is associated with the serving gateway interface application and is part of the serving gateway virtualized network function and establishing trusted signaling by the serving gateway interface trustlet with two or more mobility management entity MME home subscriber server HSS policy and charging rules function PCRF server virtualized network functions provided by virtual servers executing in the virtual computing environment. The method further comprises sending a trust token by the serving gateway interface trustlet to the eNB whereby a trusted communication link from the eNB is established via a virtualized network function path through the virtual computing environment.

In another embodiment a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted security is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a trusted communication request from an enhanced node B eNB by a mobility management entity MME interface application where the MME interface application is part of an MME virtualized network function provided by a virtual server executing in a virtual computing environment and allocating an MME interface trustlet to the enhanced node B that requested the trusted communication where the MME interface trustlet executes in a trusted security zone of compute resources provided by the virtual computing environment is associated with the MME interface application and is part of the MME virtualized network function. The method further comprises establishing trusted signaling by the MME interface trustlet with two or more serving gateway home subscriber server HSS policy and charging rules function PCRF server virtualized network functions provided by virtual servers executing in the virtual computing environment and sending a trust token by the MME interface trustlet to the eNB whereby a trusted communication link from the eNB is established via a virtualized network function path through the virtual computing environment.

In another embodiment a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted security is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a trusted communication request from an enhanced node B eNB by a serving gateway interface application where the serving gateway interface application is part of a serving gateway virtualized network function provided by a virtual server executing in a virtual computing environment and allocating a serving gateway interface trustlet to the enhanced node B that requested the trusted communication where the serving gateway interface trustlet executes in a trusted security zone of compute resources provided by the virtual computing environment is associated with the serving gateway interface application and is part of the serving gateway virtualized network function. The method further comprises establishing trusted signaling by the serving gateway interface trustlet with two or more mobility management entity MME home subscriber server HSS policy and charging rules function PCRF server virtualized network functions provided by virtual servers executing in the virtual computing environment and sending a trust token by the serving gateway interface trustlet to the eNB whereby a trusted communication link from the eNB is established via a virtualized network function path through the virtual computing environment.

In another embodiment a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted trust is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a trust zone request by an enhanced node B from an electronic device attached to a long term evolution LTE wireless network and forwarding the trust zone request from the enhanced node B to a home subscription server HSS wherein the enhanced node B forwards the trust zone request while executing in a trust zone of the enhanced node B wherein the trust zone provides hardware assisted trust. The method further comprises receiving a trust zone request acknowledgement by the enhanced node B from the home subscription server while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B forwarding the trust zone request acknowledgement by the enhanced node B to the electronic device wherein the enhanced node B forwards the trust zone acknowledgement while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B and receiving a trusted service request by the enhanced node B from the electronic device. The method further comprises forwarding the trusted service request by the enhanced node B to a policy and charging rules function PCRF server wherein the enhanced node B forwards the trusted service request while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B receiving a trusted service request acknowledgement by the enhanced node B from the policy and charging rules function server while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B and forwarding the trusted service request acknowledgement to the electronic device whereby the electronic device is provided a trusted bearer communication link.

In another embodiment a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted trust is disclosed. The method comprises attaching a mobile communication device by an enhanced node B to a long term evolution LTE wireless network performing signaling on behalf of the mobile communication device to establish a trusted bearer communication link between the mobile communication device and the long term evolution wireless network and receiving a trusted service termination request by the enhanced node B from the mobile communication device while executing in a trust zone of the enhanced node B. The method further comprises forwarding the trusted service termination request by the enhanced node B while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B to at least one of a mobility management entity MME a home subscriber server HSS a packet gateway P GW and a policy and charging rules function PCRF server receiving a trusted service termination acknowledgment by the enhanced node B while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B and forwarding the trusted service termination acknowledgment by the enhanced node B while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B whereby the trusted bearer communication link from the mobile communication device and the long term evolution wireless network is taken down.

In another embodiment a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted trust is disclosed. The method comprises attaching a mobile communication device by a first enhanced node B to a first long term evolution LTE wireless network performing signaling on behalf of the mobile communication device to establish a trusted bearer communication link between the mobile communication device and the first long term evolution wireless network and transmitting a redirect request by the first enhanced node B to a mobility management entity MME . The method further comprises analyzing by the mobility management entity a signaling trust continuum in a second long term evolution wireless network and performing signaling on behalf of the mobile communication device to establish a trusted bearer communication link between the mobile communication device and the second long term evolution wireless network.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

In an embodiment some of a communication network s functionality may be provided with a network function virtualization NFV communication paradigm. For example the functionality of a home subscriber server a mobility management entity a policy and charging rules function node and a serving gateway rather than each being provided by separate computers or computer systems may be provided by virtual servers executing in a virtual computing environment for example executing in a cloud computing environment. Further the network functions may be composed of common functions. For example a mobility management entity network function may be composed of a network attach function an authentication function a mobility function a context function and other functions. A home subscriber server network function may be composed of the attach function and the authentication function. In an embodiment common functions are executed in one or more virtual servers executing in a virtual computing environment. Then when a first network function is performed the sequence of operations associated with the first network function are performed by the several engaged common network functions executing in different virtual servers. And when a different second network function is performed the sequence of operations associated with the second network function is performed in part by one of the common network functions used by the first network function. The common function processing may be performed by the same virtual server instance that handles the processing of the common function for the first network function. This may be referred to as factorizing the common functions.

The factorization of common functions in combination with virtualized execution can provide a variety of advantages to a wireless communication service provider. This paradigm provides the ability to conveniently and quickly expand or contract compute resources as needed. This paradigm allows a wireless communication service provider to pay for compute resources as they are used on an as needed basis versus investing significant capital in purchasing and installing computing equipment in anticipation of future needs needs which may not materialize or may not be as large or as small as projected. Virtualization of common network functions and network function virtualization is described further hereinafter.

Virtual servers execute on compute resources. The physical details of the compute resources may be abstracted so a virtual server only interacts with a logical view of the underlying compute resources thereby decoupling the virtual servers from the physical details of the compute resources. Decoupling the virtual servers from the physical details of the underlying compute resources may make instantiating the virtual server on different physical compute resources more convenient and may entail less system administrator intervention. A virtual server may execute in the context of or under the management of a hypervisor or may execute in the context of a logical operating system that abstracts away the physical details of the underlying compute resources. Compute resources comprise the customary computer system components processors main memory e.g. semiconductor RAM secondary memory or mass memory e.g. disk drives and network interfaces. Compute resources may also comprise trusted security zone resources.

A virtual computing environment operating system or the virtual server may incorporate support for trusted execution of logic and or instructions e.g. execution of the instructions in a trusted security zone . An application may be partitioned into a portion comprised of instructions that need not execute in the trusted security zone and a portion comprised of instructions that desirably do execute in the trusted security zone. The portion of instructions of an application that are desirably executed in the trusted security zone may be referred to as a trustlet. A trustlet may be thought of as an extract of a complete application an extract of the specific instructions that desirably execute in a trusted security zone. The portion of the application that need not execute in the trusted security zone may be said to execute in the rich environment or permissive environment.

Some of the common functions of the network functions may be composed of a portion that executes in the rich environment and a trustlet that executes in the trusted security zone. When a request for trusted communication is received in the communication network the processing provided by some common functions e.g. the policy function the context function a bearer function etc. the processing of that common function passes to the trustlet of that common function. The trustlet is instantiated to execute in a trusted security zone provided by the compute resources underlying the virtual server in which the subject common function and trustlet execute.

In an embodiment a security monitor component executing on the virtual server determines that a request for trusted communication has been received and passes control to the trustlet. The security monitor may periodically poll the portion of the common function that executes in the rich environment. If a request is pending the security monitor may retrieve some communication parameters that may be used by the trustlet to continue on with trusted communication with the requesting communication node e.g. the enhanced node B . The communication interface between the security monitor and the portion of the common function executing in the rich environment is very lean to reduce the opportunity for corrupting the protections of trusted execution. For example the parameters that the portion of the common function executing in the rich environment can pass in response to the security monitor s request may be strictly limited. When the trusted communication session is over the security monitor may cause the portion of the common function to resume executing in the rich environment. In an embodiment the security monitor may be a process that is part of the operating system on the compute resources. The security monitor may pause or stop the execution of the portion of the common application that executes in the rich environment or remove it from the scheduling sequence temporarily. The security monitor may pause or stop the execution of other processes in the rich environment when the trustlet is executing.

In an embodiment some of the interfaces among the network functions may be changed as a result of the factorization of network functions into common functions. At the same time some others of the interfaces may desirably remain unchanged in order to maintain compatibility with external communication nodes nodes outside of the network function virtualization computing environment for example the enhanced node B . These may be referred to as 3GPP interfaces. Some examples of these outward facing interfaces are the S1 interface S1 U S1 C etc. the SGi interface and the Rx interface. To provide for trusted communication between the enhanced node B and the network function virtualization system the S1 interface is provided as part of a common function and is supported both by a portion of instructions that execute in the rich environment and a trustlet to support trusted communication from the enhanced node B.

Further according to a more traditional communication network e.g. not based on a network function virtualization paradigm a system for trusted signaling in a long term evolution LTE wireless communication network is taught. Signaling among long term evolution LTE network nodes may be performed to establish a bearer channel between a wireless communication device herein after referred to as a user equipment UE and other communication devices such as another user equipment or an application server. When a user equipment desires to execute a trusted network application over the communication network or to conduct other trusted communications over the communication network a trusted bearer path may desirably be created to promote a continuity of trust between the user equipment and a communication end point for example a trusted application server. As described in more detail below trusted computation and or trusted communication is based on hardware assisted security that reduces the ability of nefarious software or corrupt devices to write read or otherwise access trusted processing or trusted messages. For further details about creating a trusted bearer path see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

To provide trusted communications however the signaling that sets up the trusted bearer communication path may likewise desirably be conducted using a trusted signaling communication path. In an embodiment a user equipment that is attached to the LTE network may execute a trusted application that executes some instructions in a trusted security zone of the processor of the user equipment. In some contexts herein a trusted security zone may be referred to as a trust zone and or as a trusted zone. While executing in the trust zone the trusted application may send a trust zone request to a home subscriber server HSS to receive a trust acknowledgement and one or more user parameters associated with the subject trusted application. The trust zone request may be received by an enhanced node B eNB or cell tower. The enhanced node B may handle the trust zone request by executing in a trust zone of the enhanced node B processor to send the trust zone request on to a mobility management entity MME or other signaling node in the LTE network. The mobility management entity may handle the trust zone request by executing in a trust zone of the mobility management entity processor to send the trust zone request on to the home subscriber server. The home subscriber server may handle the trust zone request by executing in a trust zone of the home subscriber server and sending a trust zone acknowledgment and optional use parameters back to the user equipment.

In an embodiment the home subscriber server confirms that the user equipment has rights to execute a trusted service request before generating and sending the trust zone acknowledgment. For example the home subscriber server may determine if the user equipment is subscribed to at least one trusted network application. For example the home subscriber server may determine if the subscriber associated with the user equipment is deemed a trust worthy subscriber for example whether the subscriber has a pending unresolved security or trust violation event history.

The user parameters may be parameters related to the trusted network application or other trusted communication that the user equipment is requesting. The user parameters may be credentials or tokens used to invoke methods or functions of an application programming interface API provided by a trusted network application server. The user parameters may identify data that the user equipment should provide to receive access to the requested trusted service or trusted communication. The user parameters may define a level of access to one or more trusted network applications to which the user equipment is allowed. The user parameters may define a biometric signature a format of a biometric signature and or an encoding method of a biometric signature.

After trust zone processing is established in the signaling path to which it is attached the user equipment may send a trusted service request from its trust zone to a policy and charging rules function PCRF node. It is understood that the trusted service request may be transported by a plurality of nodes in the long term evolution network each handling the trusted service request in a trust zone of their processor for example the enhanced node B the mobility management entity the home subscriber server and possibly other nodes. The policy and charging rules function node determines if the trusted service request meets the standards of a trusted communication and if the user equipment has rights to execute the requested trusted service. If the trusted service request is authorized the policy and charging rules function node sends a trusted service acknowledge and optional use parameters over the signaling path to the user equipment. Said in other words the policy and charging rules function confirms that a policy allows the user equipment to invoke the requested trusted service request before generating and sending the trusted service acknowledgment. Again the trusted service acknowledgement and optional use parameters are transported by nodes executing in a trust zone of their processors. In an embodiment the trusted service acknowledgement comprises trusted bearer communication link path information to support establishing and or setting up the trusted bearer path. The trusted bearer path or trusted bearer channel is then activated and the user equipment accesses the subject trusted services via the trusted bearer path.

When it has completed its access to the trusted service the user equipment may send a trust termination request to the policy and charging rules function node and the policy and charging rules function node may send a trust termination acknowledge back to the user equipment. The user equipment may then send an exit trust zone command to the enhanced node B while executing in the trust zone of the user equipment processor. After having sent the exit trust zone command the user equipment may exit trust zone processing. The enhanced node B may then forward the exit trust zone command to the mobility management entity while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B processor. After having forwarded the exit trust zone command the enhanced node B may exit trust zone processing. The mobility management entity may then forward the exit trust zone command to the home subscriber server while executing in the trust zone of the mobility management entity processor. After having forwarded the exit trust zone command the mobility management entity may exit trust zone processing. The home subscriber server may then forward the exit trust zone command to the policy and charging rules function node while executing in the trust zone of the home subscriber server processor. After having forwarded the exit trust zone command the home subscriber server may exit trust zone processing. The policy and charging rules function node may forward the exit trust zone command to a packet gateway while executing in the trust zone of the policy and charging rules function node. After having forwarded the exit trust zone command the policy and charging rules function node may exit trust zone processing.

When it receives the exit trust zone command the packet gateway may first mediate the tearing down of the trusted bearer path and then exit trust zone processing. Alternatively other nodes in the trusted signaling path may control or mediate the tearing down of the trusted bearer path for example before they exit processing in their trust zone. At this point in time the trusted bearer path has been taken down. After the trusted bearer path has been taken down and after signaling returns to normal signaling a normal bearer channel may be activated or brought up.

In an embodiment the user equipment may have a need during a trusted communication session using a trusted bearer path to enter or obtain communication services from a foreign network here the term foreign network is used to indicate a wireless communication network other than the primary network to which the user equipment has subscribed service . The user equipment may send a redirect request from its trust zone to the mobility management entity. The mobility management entity may probe the signaling endpoint in the foreign network to determine if the foreign network can support a trusted signaling path and a trusted bearer path to provide the requested end to end trusted communication bearer path. If the foreign network can support these trust needs the trusted bearer channel is bridged into the foreign network where an end to end trusted bearer path is likewise provided to the user equipment.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resist software and physical attacks and therefore remain trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust records trust tokens and or trust symbols may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. The secure partition may be implemented by a first physical processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second physical processor. Alternatively the secure partition may be implemented by a first virtual processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second virtual processor. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a wireless communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a user equipment UE an enhanced node B eNB a network a mobility management entity MME a home subscriber server HSS a policy and charging rules function PCRF and a packet gateway P GW . User equipment UE may also be referred to herein as a mobile communication device or mobile device . In an embodiment the system may further comprise other signaling nodes for example a signaling gateway S GW . In some embodiments the packet gateway and signaling gateway may be combined in one platform or server and may be referred to as a serving gateway . In an embodiment these devices may form a portion of a long term evolution LTE wireless network. In some contexts the long term evolution wireless network may be referred to as a fourth generation or a 4G wireless network. It is understood that the system may comprise any number of the devices and . The network comprises one or more public communication networks one or more private communication networks or a combination thereof. While in a preferred embodiment the enhanced node B establishes wireless communication links with the UE according to a long term evolution wireless communication protocol in some embodiments the enhanced node B may establish wireless communication links with the UE according to at least one of a code division multiple access CDMA a global system for mobile communications GSM or a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol.

While the mobility management entity the home subscriber server the policy and charging rules function and the packet gateway may normally be considered to form a part of the network they are shown outside of the cloud representing the network to promote ease of description of the teachings of the present disclosure. The enhanced node B the mobility management entity the home subscriber server the policy and charging rules function and the packet gateway may be implemented on computers. Computers are described in more detail hereinafter. While shown as separate entities two or more of the mobility management entity the home subscriber server the policy and charging rules function and the packet gateway may be combined on one computer or one computer system. In an embodiment the functionality associated with the MME the HSS the PCRF and the P GW may be provided as virtualized network functions in a cloud computing environment as discussed further hereinafter. This may be referred to as a network function virtualization NFV communication paradigm.

The UE may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player or a wireless communication enabled computer for example a long term evolution wireless communication enabled computer. The UE may comprise a long term evolution radio transceiver a memory a trusted application and a processor . The trusted application may be stored in the memory and executed by the processor . The processor comprises a normal portion and a trust zone portion . When the trusted application is executed by the processor at least some of the instructions of the trusted application are executed in the trust zone of the processor . Trust zones and trusted execution environments are discussed in more detail above. The trust zone provides hardware assisted security for processing that is deemed sensitive for example processing that involves confidential personal and or financial information.

The enhanced node B comprises a processor that comprises a normal portion and a trust zone portion . The mobility management entity comprises a processor that comprises a normal portion and a trust zone portion . The home subscriber server comprises a processor that comprises a normal portion and a trust zone portion . The policy and charging rules function comprises a processor that comprises a normal portion and a trust zone portion . The packet gateway comprises a processor that comprises a normal portion and a trust zone portion . A variety of different trusted signaling scenarios may be executed in the process of setting up and tearing down the trusted bearer path. Some of these trusted signaling scenarios are discussed in detail below with reference to message sequence diagrams depicted in and .

Turning now to a further portion of the wireless communication system is illustrated. The UE is illustrated as communicating with a server computer via a trusted bearer . The server comprises a processor that comprises a normal portion and a trust zone portion . Under this circumstance the trust zone of the UE is communicating with the trust zone of the server via the network via the bearer path having continuity of trust.

The trusted communication may involve transport over the trusted bearer of sensitive confidential or financial information. For example the UE may be sending and or receiving sensitive health records medical reports or biometric data over the trusted bearer to a trusted service executing on the server . In an embodiment the server may be executing a trusted medical records application that stores the transmitted information in a data store and or retrieves medical records information from a data store. The UE may be embedded in a home medical apparatus such as a blood sugar level testing device used in a home by a diabetic patient under remote medical supervision. The UE may transmit current blood sugar level readings linked to an identity of the diabetic patient over the trusted bearer to the server . In an embodiment the home medical apparatus may prompt the user to provide a biometric signature that will be coupled to the sensor information to confirm the linkage of the sensed information with the user for example to prevent fraud or to provide identification assurance. The biometric signature may be an encoded finger print provided by a fingerprint scanner coupled to the home medical apparatus. The biometric signature may be an encoded retina scan provided by a retina scanner coupled to the home medical apparatus. The biometric signature may be related to some other biological parameter or profile of the subject user. It is contemplated that the system may be used to perform signaling to establish a trusted bearer path suitable for transporting or otherwise communicating a wide variety of sensitive information.

The UE conducts some communications using a trusted communication bearer for example a bearer path provided over a trusted end to end communication infrastructure. For more details on a trusted end to end communication infrastructure see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which was incorporated by reference above. As taught herein trusted signaling may be employed to set up or to initiate the trusted bearer path. The trusted signaling may involve the UE the enhanced node B the mobility management entity the home subscriber server the policy and charging rules function and or the packet gateway executing at least some instructions for signaling in their trust zones and or .

Turning now to a message sequence is described. In an embodiment the message sequence may be performed when the UE initially attaches to a long term evolution network such as the network illustrated in and described with reference to . The UE sends an attach request to the mobility management entity via the enhanced node B . In response to receiving the attach request the mobility management entity conducts an authentication procedure with the home subscriber server . It is understood that the authentication procedure may entail one or more messages sent both to and from each of the mobility management entity and the home subscriber server . On completion of the authentication procedure the mobility management entity conducts an authentication and key agreement procedure with the UE via the enhanced node B . It is understood that the authentication and key agreement procedure may entail one or more messages sent both to and from each of the mobility management entity and the UE . At some later time the UE and the mobility management entity may conduct security mode handshaking that is not directly related to trusted signaling and may be pursuant to long term evolution wireless attachment procedures.

At some time the UE may wish to establish its potential for conducting trusted signaling and or trusted bearer communications. Said in another way at some indeterminate time but before initiating trusted signaling and or trusted bearer communications the UE may wish to register with one or more nodes in the long term evolution wireless network as a UE capable of engaging in trusted communications. The UE begins processing in its trust zone at label . The trust zone of the UE sends a trust zone request to the enhanced node B . The enhanced node B in response to receiving the trust zone request first begins processing in its trust zone at label and then the trust zone of the enhanced node B sends a trust zone request to the mobility management entity . The mobility management entity in response to receiving the trust zone request first begins processing in its trust zone at label and then the trust zone of the mobility management entity sends a trust zone request to the home subscriber server . The home subscriber server in response to receiving the trust zone request begins processing in its trust zone at label . The home subscriber server optionally determines use parameters and then sends a trust acknowledge message optionally containing the use parameters back to the trust zone of the UE via the trust zone of the mobility management entity and the trust zone of the enhanced node B .

Turning now to a message sequence is described. In an embodiment the message sequence may be performed when the UE desires to engage in trusted communication over a trusted bearer path. The message sequence represents exemplary signaling that the UE may engage in to request the long term evolution wireless network to provide a trusted bearer path. At label the UE attaches to the long term evolution wireless network by messaging with the policy and charging rules function via the enhanced node B the mobility management entity and the home subscriber server AuC function . At label the UE completes a packet service bearer activation procedure by messaging with the packet gateway via the enhanced node B the mobility management entity the home subscriber server AuC function and the policy and charging rules function . The processing associated with labels and may be conventional and promote conventional untrusted bearer communication via the long term evolution wireless network on the part of the UE .

At some time the UE may wish to communicate using a trusted bearer path. For example the UE may be embedded in a home medical apparatus and may desire to invoke a trusted network application executing on the server to transmit and or store medical sensor information in a data store coupled to the server . At label the UE begins processing in its trust zone at label . In a message sequence similar to that described above with respect to the UE requests the enhanced node B to execute in its trust zone the mobility management entity to execute in its trust zone the home subscriber server to execute in its trust zone the policy and charging rules function to execute in its trust zone and the packet gateway to execute in its trust zone . The condition where these several nodes are executing in their trust zones is indicated by the box containing the text processing in trust zone. It is understood that the messages and or procedures illustrated below this box containing the text processing in trust zone are conducted in the several trust zones of the subject network nodes and the UE . The UE sends a trusted service request to the policy and charging rules function via the enhanced node B the mobility management entity and the home subscriber server . The policy and charging rules function processes the trusted service request at label optionally determining use parameters. The policy and charging rules function then sends a trusted service acknowledgement message that optionally contains use parameters back to the UE via the home subscriber server the mobility management entity and the enhanced node B .

At label a trusted bearer channel is activated between the UE and the packet gateway . It is understood that the radio link between the UE and the enhanced node B may be the first segment of the trusted bearer path. The packet gateway may execute in its trust zone to connect the UE to a trusted end to end communication infrastructure. Said in another way the packet gateway may execute in its trust zone to connect the UE to a trusted bearer path and or to provide a bearer path providing a continuity of trust for example to connect the UE to the server via the trusted bearer path .

Turning now to a message sequence is described. In an embodiment the message sequence may be performed when the UE desires to discontinue trusted communication over the trusted bearer path and resume communication over a normal bearer path or over an untrusted bearer path. The UE may prefer to conduct normal communications over a normal bearer path or over an untrusted bearer path because the normal bearer path may provide higher throughput rates or because communicating over the normal bearer path may be associated with a more economical rating and or billing schedule.

The label represents a trusted bearer channel and or trusted bearer path is provided to the UE . The UE sends a trust termination request to the policy and charging rules function via the enhanced node B the mobility management entity and the home subscriber server . The policy and charging rules function sends a trust termination acknowledgement to the UE via the home subscriber server the mobility management entity and the enhanced node B .

In response to receiving the trust termination acknowledgement the UE first sends an exit trust zone request to the enhanced node B and then at label exits processing in its trust zone and begins processing in its normal portion . In response to receiving the exit trust zone request the enhanced node B first sends an exit trust zone request to the mobility management entity and then at label exits processing in its trust zone and begins processing in its normal portion . In response to receiving the exit trust zone request the mobility management entity first sends an exit trust zone request to the home subscriber server and then at label exits processing in its trust zone and begins processing in its normal portion . In response to receiving the exit trust zone request the home subscriber server first sends an exit trust zone request to the policy and charging rules function and then at label exits processing in its trust zone and begins processing in its normal portion . In response to receiving the exit trust zone request the policy and charging rules function first sends an exit trust zone request to the packet gateway and then at label exits processing in its trust zone and begins processing in its normal portion . In response to receiving the exit trust zone request the packet gateway first mediates tearing down the trusted bearer path and then at label exits processing in its trust zone and begins processing in its normal portion . Alternatively other nodes in the trusted signaling path may mediate and or control the tearing down of the trusted bearer path. The box containing the text processing in normal CPU represents all of the nodes and the UE processing in their normal portions.

At label the UE may send a normal connection request to the mobility management entity via the enhanced node B . At label the UE may send an untrusted service request to the policy and charging rules function via the enhanced node B the mobility management entity and the home subscriber server . At label the UE may communicate via a normal bearer channel via the enhanced node B and the packet gateway .

Turning now to a message sequence is described. In an embodiment the message sequence may be performed when the UE roams from a first service provider network into a second service provider network while the UE is engaged in trusted communication using a trusted bearer path provided by the first service provider network. The box containing the text processing in trust zone represents that the several nodes and the UE are processing in their respective trust zones. The label shows the UE engaged in communication over a trusted bearer channel via the enhanced node B and the packet gateway . At label in response to determining that the UE is to roam into a second service provider network either the UE or the enhanced node B sends a redirect request to the mobility management entity . The mobility management entity performs a probe or investigation of the trust zone processing capability of the second service provider network. The second service provider network sends a trust zone to trust zone interface trusted connection approval to the UE via the mobility management entity and the enhanced node B . At label the UE is illustrated communicating via a trusted bearer channel provided by the second service provider network.

While not illustrated in when the UE is communicating via a trusted bearer channel provided by the second service provider network the UE may be provided a radio communication link by an enhanced node B operated by the second service provider network that is different from the enhanced node B of the first service provider network. Likewise the UE may be coupled to the trusted bearer channel by a packet gateway operated by the second service provider network that is different from the packet gateway of the first service provider network. In some cases the packet gateway of the first service provider network may continue to be a part of the trusted bearer channel or trusted bearer path for example to connect to the server which may continue to connected to the trusted bearer path even while the UE has roamed into a foreign network or into the second service provider network.

It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the present disclosure contemplates a variety of alternative message sequences and flows based on the specific message sequences described above with reference to and . For example the flow of some messages may bypass some of the nodes described in the flow path from the UE to other signaling nodes. Additionally in some cases the time sequence of some messages may be different. For example in an embodiment a node may exit its trust zone first and then send an exit trust zone request to another node. One skilled in the art will also appreciate that while the descriptions above are directed to the context of trusted communications in a long term evolution wireless network that the descriptions may equally apply to other wireless communication networks. It is sometimes the case that new paradigms of communication that are first developed or invented for use in one communication system for example the trusted signaling in a long term evolution wireless network described herein may over time become a paradigm that is expropriated and used in later generation technologies.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a trust zone request is received by an enhanced node B from an electronic device attached to a long term evolution LTE wireless network. For example the enhanced node B receives a trust zone request from the UE . At block the trust zone request is forwarded from the enhanced node B to a home subscription server HSS wherein the enhanced node B forwards the trust zone request while executing in a trust zone of the enhanced node B wherein the trust zone provides hardware assisted trust. At block a trust zone request acknowledgement is received by the enhanced node B from the home subscription server while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B. At block the trust zone request acknowledgement is forwarded by the enhanced node B to the electronic device wherein the enhanced node B forwards the trust zone acknowledgement while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B. At block a trusted service request is received by the enhanced node B from the electronic device. At block the trusted service request is forwarded by the enhanced node B to a policy and charging rules function PCRF server wherein the enhanced node B forwards the trusted service request while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B. At block a trusted service request acknowledgement is received by the enhanced node B from the policy and charging rules function server while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B. At block the trusted service request acknowledgement is forwarded to the electronic device whereby the electronic device is provided a trusted bearer communication link

Turning now to a method is described. At block a mobile communication device attaches via an enhanced node B to a long term evolution LTE wireless network. For example the UE attaches via the enhanced node B to a long term evolution wireless network. At block signaling is performed on behalf of the mobile communication device to establish a trusted bearer communication link between the mobile communication device and the long term evolution wireless network. At block a trusted service termination request is received by the enhanced node B from the mobile communication device while executing in a trust zone of the enhanced node B. At block the trusted service termination request is forwarded by the enhanced node B while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B to at least one of a mobility management entity MME a home subscriber server HSS a packet gateway P GW and a policy and charging rules function PCRF server. At block a trusted service termination acknowledgment is received by the enhanced node B while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B. At block the trusted service termination acknowledgment is forwarded by the enhanced node B while executing in the trust zone of the enhanced node B.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a mobile communication device attaches via a first enhanced node B to a first long term evolution LTE wireless network. For example the UE attaches via the enhanced node B to a long term evolution wireless network of a first wireless service provider. At block signaling is performed on behalf of the mobile communication device to establish a trusted bearer communication link between the mobile communication device and the first long term evolution wireless network. At block a redirect request is transmitted by the first enhanced node B to a mobility management entity MME . Alternatively the mobile communication device may transmit the redirect request. A redirect request may be generated and transmitted for example when the mobile communication device roams from a radio access network of the first wireless service provider into the radio access network of a second wireless service provider.

At block the mobility management entity analyzes a signaling trust continuum in a second long term evolution wireless network. At block if the mobility management entity verifies the ability of the second long term evolution wireless network to support a trusted signaling path and or a trusted bearer path signaling is performed on behalf of the mobile communication device to establish a trusted bearer communication link between the mobile communication device and the second long term evolution wireless network. In an embodiment this signaling may comprise forwarding a trust zone request from a second enhanced node B in the second long term evolution wireless network to a home subscription server HSS associated with the second long term evolution wireless network wherein the second enhanced node B forwards the trust zone request while executing in a trust zone of the second enhanced node B and receiving a trust zone request acknowledgement by the second enhanced node B from the home subscription server while executing in the trust zone of the second enhanced node B. This signaling may further comprise forwarding the trust zone request acknowledgement by the second enhanced node B to the mobile communication device wherein the second enhanced node B forwards the trust zone acknowledgement while executing in the trust zone of the second enhanced node B and receiving a trusted service request by the second enhanced node B from the mobile communication device.

Turning now to the virtualized network function communication paradigm is described. The traditional communication network may be considered to comprise isolated servers each isolated server providing one of the network functions. For example the mobility management entity the home subscriber server the policy and charging rules function server and the serving gateway . In some cases to handle communication processing loads a network function may be distributed on a plurality of servers. It is understood that the communication network may comprise many other communication nodes notably routers and other servers.

Each of the traditionally structured network function servers provide their processing functionality by executing one or more functions for example a network attach function an authentication function a mobility function a bearer function a context function a policy function and a data function . Since some of these functions are performed by a plurality of network function servers there is duplication of these functions in the traditionally structured network. This duplication may result in maintenance and or common behavior problems over time.

One skilled in the art understands what these functions are but for the sake of others reading this specification a thumbnail description of the functions is provided here. It is understood that the described common functions may perform additional tasks or functions that may not be mentioned here. It is further understood that other common functions may be factorized from traditional network functions and may be supported by the network function virtualization paradigm using the virtual computing environment .

The network attach function provides functions that may be used by a service to attach to the network and communicate e.g. a network attach function may be performed on behalf of the UE in order for it to obtain communication service on the network . The authentication function provides functions that may be used to authenticate users for example to authenticate a user of the UE who wishes to obtain communication service on the network . The mobility function provides functions to support mobile communications for example handoffs and continuity for the UE when it is engaged in a voice call or other communication session. The bearer function provides functions that contribute to maintaining a network connection over a period of time to support providing communication service e.g. to carry bearer traffic . The context function provides functions that promote service continuity during handoff interruption or transfer. The policy function provides functions to support policy managed or policy constrained access to or use of a service. The data function provides functions to support data creation reading update and deletion CRUD functions.

The communication network may be restructured at least in part as common functions executing in virtual servers in a virtual computing environment that are called by a state control application that provides one of the traditional network functions e.g. one of MME HSS PCRF SGW etc. by calling the appropriate common functions and passing parameters or intermediate results between and or among the common functions in a desired sequence. For example an attach common function may execute in a first virtual server an authentication common function may execute in a second virtual server a mobility common function may execute in a third virtual server a bearer common function may execute in a fourth virtual server a context common function may execute in a fifth virtual server a policy common function may execute in a sixth virtual server and a data common function may execute in a seventh virtual server . The functionality of the MME hence may be provided by executing the attach common function in the first virtual server the authentication common function in the second virtual server the mobility common function in the third virtual server the bearer common function in the fourth virtual server and the context common function in the fifth virtual server . The functionality of the HSS may be provided by executing the attach common function on the first virtual server and by executing the authentication common function on the second virtual server . Thus the common functionality of network attach can be provided to both the MME and to the HSS from the same attach common function executing on the virtual server . This restructuring of the traditional siloed network functions into common functions may be referred to as network function factorization or factorization. Different traditional network functions would be associated with different state control applications and would execute on different virtual servers .

A single virtual server may concurrently execute a plurality of instances of a common function. For example the first virtual sever may concurrently execute 2 instances of the attach common function 4 instances of the attach common function 8 instances of the attach common function or some other number of instances of the attach common function . Additionally a plurality of virtual servers each executing instances of the same common function may be deployed to carry a communication load. For example 2 3 or more instances of the first virtual sever may execute instances of the attach common function . In an embodiment any one virtual server executes instances of only one common function. For example no virtual server would concurrently execute instances of different common functions.

Turning now to a communication system is described. From some points of view the communication system is substantially similar to the communication system described above with reference to . For example from the point of view of the UE and the enhanced node B the systems may be indistinguishable. From the point of view of a content server or application server or of a telephone the systems may be indistinguishable. Communication between the enhanced node B and the content server or the telephone provides data and or voice services in substantially similar ways over substantially similar interfaces regardless of what implementation of the core network system or system is deployed. The use of a virtual computing environment to provide at least some of the core network functionality can provide significant advantages to the wireless communication service provider.

The virtual computing environment may support ease of maintenance ease of upgrading ease of expansion and contraction of compute resources. The virtual computing environment may be provided with a private environment of compute resources or with a public deployment of compute resources. Said in another way the virtual computing environment may be a private cloud computing environment owned operated and managed by a wireless communication service provider. Alternatively the virtual computing environment may be a public cloud computing deployment owned operated and managed by a cloud computing service provider and supporting not only the core network functionality of a wireless communication service provider but also supporting computing needs of web based enterprises large on line retail sales enterprises governmental entities and the like.

The virtual computing environment may comprise a variety of compute resources . The compute resources comprises processors e.g. microprocessors digital signal processors graphics processors main memory mass memory e.g. disk drives and network interfaces. The processors may comprise a single processor unit or may comprise multiple processor units. For example a processor may comprise a quad core processor having four distinct processing units. Alternatively a processor may contain some other number of distinct processing units. The mass memory may be located in physical proximity to the computer blade on which a virtual server executes that uses the mass memory. Alternatively the mass memory may be located remote from the computer blade on which the virtual server executes and may be addressed or accessed logically. The compute resources may be partly deployed as blade computers in a rack of an equipment cabinet. A single virtual server may execute on one computer host or computer blade or a plurality of virtual servers may execute on one computer host or computer blade.

The virtual server may be built or deployed as a server image. A server image may comprise instructions or logic that can be loaded into main memory of a compute resource a blade computer or on top of a hypervisor and then executed to provide the functionality of the virtual server. A server image may be viewed as a kind of template for creating or instantiating a virtual server. The same server image may be used to instantiate multiple virtual servers either on the same compute resource or on separate compute resources. The server image may be constructed or built targeted to a category or class of compute resources and a virtual server instantiated from that server image may take advantage of or employ the compute resources that comport with that class of compute resources. For example when a first server image is built according to a class of compute resources that includes a graphics processor a virtual server instantiated from that first server image may employ the resources of one or more graphics processors. When a second server image is built according to a class of compute resources that includes a trusted security zone a virtual server instantiated from that second server image may employ the resources of a trusted security zone.

The virtual computing environment may comprise a first virtual server executing on the compute resources that performs processing of a common function . A second virtual server and a third virtual server may likewise execute on the computer resources and may perform processing of the same common function or different common functions. It is understood that the compute resources may be viewed as the collection of all the compute resources in the virtual computing environment a plurality of processors main memories mass memories and network interfaces. The virtual computing environment may comprise any number of active or instantiated virtual servers .

A communication may be initiated by the UE by establishing a wireless communication link with the enhanced node B . The enhanced node B may establish a communication link with the virtual computing environment for example over a data communication interface such as an S1 U interface or an S1 C interface. The communication may be serviced by a plurality of network virtual functions and a plurality of common functions within the virtual computing environment and link to the content server to access content stored in a datastore or to link to the telephone to conduct a voice call.

In an embodiment the UE initiates a trusted communication for example to access confidential information via the content server and the datastore e.g. medical records bank account information or credit history information . The wireless link between the UE and the enhanced node B may be deemed to be inherently trusted or secure from hacking. The enhanced node B may request a trusted communication link with the content server by engaging in trusted signaling with the virtual computing environment . The enhanced node B sends a trusted link request via a S1 interface to the virtual computing environment . A virtual server may recognize the trusted link request and cause a common function to transition to executing its trustlet. The trustlet executes in a trusted security zone provided by the underlying compute resources in which the subject trustlet and virtual server execute. The trustlet sends trust tokens to the enhanced node B via the S1 interface and a trusted communication link is established between the common function and the enhanced node B . The trustlet may then signal with other virtual servers and other common functions to provide the appropriate virtualized network functions to support the desired trusted communication. One of the common functions may be the bearer common function that provides the trusted communication link to the server . The bearer common function likewise executing in its trustlet in a trusted security zone of the compute resources in which its virtual server executes signals with the content server to establish a trusted communication link. When the content server provides the appropriate trust tokens and handshaking the end to end trusted bearer path from the UE to the content server or to the telephone depending on the communication scenario may be established.

Turning now to the overlay of a virtual server on compute resources is described. The virtual server executes using compute resources . The virtual server may not directly interact with the compute resources and instead may run on top of a hypervisor or on top of a logical operating system an operating system that itself operates in the context of another operating system . Notwithstanding the processing provided by the virtual server is performed using the compute resources . The compute resources may comprise a rich environment and a trusted security zone . The details of trusted security zones are described further above. To briefly reprise here a trusted security zone provides hardware assisted trust or hardware assisted security. A trusted security zone may comprise a portion of main memory. An operating system may mediate access to the main memory and may enforce the constraint that only instructions executing in trust may access the trusted portion of memory. Alternatively the trusted portion of main memory may be physically isolated and only physically accessible to a trusted portion of a processor. A trusted security zone may be supported by a fundamental operation mode of processor units that prevents other potentially untrusted instructions executing concurrently with the trusted instructions e.g. intercalated with the trusted instructions as in a context switching situation or possibly when executed on a co processor of a multi core processor .

The rich environment is the portion of main memory that is not trusted and any mass memory allocated to the virtual server . The rich environment comprises the processor units that are not configured to have a trusted mode of operation or are not currently operating in a trusted mode of operation. The rich environment may be considered to further comprise operating system commands that are disallowed when executing in the trusted mode of operation and or accessing network interfaces that may be disallowed when executing in the trusted mode of operation.

The common function executing in the virtual server may comprise rich environment processing logic or instructions and a trustlet . The rich environment processing executes in the rich environment of the computer resources and the trustlet executes in the trusted security zone . A security monitor may be part of an operating system in which the virtual server executes or may be provided as part of the server image that is used to instantiate the virtual server . The security monitor executes in the trusted security zone . The virtual server may be configured or created to map execution of the trustlet and the security monitor to the trusted security zone . The security monitor may be referred to in some contexts as a security monitor module or a security monitor component.

The security monitor may be configured with an execution invocation handle e.g. a logical address of the trustlet that it can use to launch and terminate the trustlet . The security monitor may further be configured with the location of a trust flag in main memory of the compute resources or configured with a logical address that the operating system may map to a physical address to access the trust flag in main memory. The security monitor may periodically poll the trust flag. When the trust flag is unset no trusted communication request is pending. When the trust flag is set a trusted communication request is pending. The security monitor may further be configured with a physical address of a trusted communication request parameter list or a logical address that the operating system can map to the trusted communication request parameter list . To handle a pending trusted communication request the security monitor may access and read the trusted communication request parameters. The security monitor may first validate the trusted communication request parameters for example validating a trust token provided in the parameters list.

The security monitor may then cause the operating system or may itself to pause the rich environment processing and may instantiate the trustlet passing the trusted communication request parameters to the trustlet . Instantiating the trustlet may be referred to in some contexts as allocating the trustlet or allocating the trustlet to the common function . The trustlet may then handshake with the requesting communication node or common function and carry on trusted communications. When the trustlet indicates that the trusted communication session is completed the security monitor may terminate the trustlet and cause the rich environment processing to resume execution.

In an embodiment the security monitor may maintain a registry of trustlets for example in the situation where a plurality of instances of the common function are executing on the same virtual server . The registry of trustlets may comprise information associated with instantiated trustlets for example an execution handle to use in communicating with each instantiated trustlet a trust token state information such as communication parameters associated with the instantiated trustlet .

Turning now to a method is described. Method is a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted security. At block a serving gateway interface application receives a trusted communication request from an enhanced node B. In an embodiment the serving gateway interface application may implement a 3GPP interface such as a S1 interface. The serving gateway interface application is part of a serving gateway virtualized network function provided by a virtual server executing in a virtual computing environment. At block a security monitor module or a security monitor component of the serving gateway virtualized network function determines that a trusted communication request has been received. The security monitor executes in a trusted security zone of compute resources provided by the virtual computing environment. The trusted security zone provides hardware assisted security.

At block the security monitor allocates a serving gateway interface trustlet to handle the trusted communication request of the enhanced node B. The serving gateway interface trustlet executes in the trusted security zone is associated with the serving gateway interface application and is part of the serving gateway virtualized network function. At block the serving gateway interface trustlet establishes trusted signaling with two or more mobility management entity home subscriber server policy and charging rules function server virtualized network functions provided by virtual servers executing in the virtual computing environment. At block the serving gateway interface trustlet sends a trust token to the enhanced node B whereby a trusted communication link from the enhanced node B to a destination point e.g. the content server or the telephone is established via a virtualized network function path through the virtual computing environment.

Turning now to a method is described. Method is a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted security. At block a mobility management entity interface application receives a trusted communication request from an enhanced node B. The mobility management entity interface application may implement an 3GPP interface such as an S1 interface. The mobility management entity interface application is part of a mobility management entity virtualized network function provided by a virtual server executing in a virtual computing environment. At block a mobility management entity interface trustlet is allocated to the enhanced node B that requested the trusted communication. The mobility management entity interface trustlet executes in a trusted security zone of compute resources provided by the virtual computing environment is associated with the mobility management entity interface application and is part of the mobility management entity virtualized network function 

At block the mobility management entity interface trustlet establishes trusted signaling with two or more serving gateway home subscriber server policy and charging rules function server virtualized network functions provided by virtual servers executing in the virtual computing environment. At block the mobility management entity interface trustlet sends a trust token to the enhanced node B whereby a trusted communication link from the enhanced node B to a destination point e.g. the content server or the telephone is established via a virtualized network function path through the virtual computing environment.

Turning now to a method is described. Method is a method of wireless communication enabled by hardware assisted security. At block a serving gateway interface application receives a trusted communication request from an enhanced node B. The serving gateway interface application is part of a serving gateway virtualized network function provided by a virtual server executing in a virtual computing environment. At block a serving gateway interface trustlet is allocated to the enhanced node B that requested the trusted communication. The serving gateway interface trustlet executes in a trusted security zone of compute resources provided by the virtual computing environment is associated with the serving gateway interface application and is part of the serving gateway virtualized network function.

At block the serving gateway interface trustlet establishes trusted signaling with two or more mobility management entity home subscriber server policy and charging rules function server virtualized network functions provided by virtual servers executing in the virtual computing environment. At block the serving gateway interface trustlet sends a trust token to the enhanced node B whereby a trusted communication link from the enhanced node B is established via a virtualized network function path through the virtual computing environment.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

