---

title: Systems, methods, and computer program products for automatic mapping between parlay-X short messaging service message element XML encoding and native SMPP protocol data coding scheme
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products are for mapping an extensible markup language (XML) encoding declarations to a short message peer-to-peer (SMPP) data coding scheme (DCS) for a mobile-terminated (MT) short messaging service (SMS). An exemplary method includes receiving a message from a short message entity (SME) for delivery to a mobile device. The message includes a payload with at least one character encoded in accordance with a first character encoding scheme. The exemplary method further includes receiving from the SME a second encoding scheme for the message, implementing a mapping table to map the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme, and performing an encoding transformation of the message from the first character encoding to the second character encoding scheme yielding a modified message comprising the payload of the message encoded in the second character encoding scheme as specified by the SME.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571430&OS=09571430&RS=09571430
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09571430
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151207
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 537 238 filed Nov. 10 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 210 108 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 770 343 filed Feb. 19 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 886 235 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 821 765 filed Jun. 23 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 385 953 wherein the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates generally to protocol conversion and more particularly to systems methods and computer program products for automatic mapping between the Parlay X short messaging service Extensible Markup Language XML encoding format for the message element and native Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol data coding scheme DCS .

Parlay X PX is a set of open telecom web service standards defined by the Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is a multi vendor consortium formed to develop open technology independent application programming interfaces APIs that enable the development of applications operating across multiple networking platform environments.

Parlay integrates intelligent network IN services with information technology IT applications via a secure interface that allows billing of services. By not requiring detailed knowledge of underlying code networks and environments Parlay open APIs enable developers to be innovative and to focus on business logic. Parlay based portable network independent applications are connecting IT and telecom generating new revenue streams for network operators application service providers ASPs and independent software vendors ISVs . The Parlay Group has released PX web services specifications for messaging services such as short messaging and multimedia messaging.

Short messaging typically utilizes the short message peer to peer SMPP protocol. The SMPP protocol is an open industry standard protocol designed to simplify interconnection between various entities to exchange short messaging service SMS messages.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a method for mapping an extensible markup language XML encoding declaration to a short message peer to peer SMPP data coding scheme DCS for the mobile terminated MT short messaging service SMS includes receiving a message from a short message entity SME for delivery to a mobile device. The message includes a payload at least one character encoded in accordance with a first character encoding scheme. In one embodiment the payload is the message element name within Parlay X PX Short Messaging Service SMS API. The method further includes receiving from the SME a second encoding scheme for the message implementing a mapping table to map the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme and performing an encoding transformation of the message from the first character encoding to the second character encoding scheme yielding a modified message comprising the payload of the message encoded in the second character encoding scheme as specified by the SME.

In one embodiment the method further includes sending the modified message to a short message service center SMSC for delivery to the mobile device. In this embodiment the method may further include generating and sending a notification to the SME. The notification indicates that the modified message was delivered to the mobile device.

In one embodiment the message is a PX sendSMS message the first character encoding scheme for the PX SMS message element is an encoding scheme with an appropriate XML encoding declaration and the second character encoding scheme is a short message peer to peer SMPP data coding scheme DCS for the message.

In one embodiment the encoding scheme is one of a Unicode Transformation Format 8 UTF 8 UTF 16 UCS 2 ISO 10646 UCS 2 ISO 10646 UCS 4 ISO 8859 1 ISO 8859 2 ISO 8859 9 ISO 2022 JP Shift JIS and EUC JP.

In one embodiment the SMPP DCS is Octet unspecified 8 bit binary . Other possible DCS values include MC Specific IA5 CCITT T.50 ASCII ANSI X3.4 Octet unspecified 8 bit binary Latin 1 ISO 8859 1 Octet unspecified 8 bit binary JIS X 0208 1990 Cyrillic ISO 8859 5 Latin Hebrew ISO 8859 8 UCS2 ISO IEC 10646 Pictogram Encoding ISO 2022 JP Music Codes Kanji JIS X 0212 1990 KS C 5601 GSM message waiting indicator MWI control GSM message class control and the like.

In one embodiment the message includes a multimedia component including at least one of an image a sound and a video.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure bytes are passed transparently without transformation to the SMSC with a destination of the destination encoding scheme. For example suppose UTF 16 is specified as the originating scheme and UCS 2 as the DCS assuming all the characters are in the Unicode Basic Multilingual Plane BMP then the applicable bytes are copied into the value field of the SMPP message payload parameter. Message decoding and display in one embodiment is done by an application on the mobile device that recognizes the incoming coding format based on the DCS or alternatively may choose to analyze the bytes to determine the real encoding scheme to use.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium includes instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform the aforementioned method.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a system includes a network interface a processor and a memory including instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform the aforementioned method.

As required detailed embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein. It must be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary examples of the disclosure that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein the word exemplary is used expansively to refer to embodiments that serve as an illustration specimen model or pattern. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. In other instances well known components systems materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure.

The systems and methods of the present disclosure may be implemented in wireless networks that use exemplary telecommunications standards such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . It should be understood however that the systems and methods may be implemented in wireless networks that use any existing or yet to be developed telecommunications technology. Some examples of other suitable telecommunications technologies include but are not limited to networks utilizing Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technologies. Examples of suitable data bearers include but are not limited to General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA and various other current and future data bearers.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several views schematically illustrates a network architecture according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. The illustrated network architecture includes a short message entity SME a Parlay X PX gateway a short messaging service center SMSC a mobile device and a radio access network RAN .

The SME is an entity which may send or receive short messaging service SMS messages. The SME may be located in a mobile network as illustrated a fixed network or the SMSC . Although a single SME is illustrated in some embodiments multiple SMEs are in communication with the PX gateway . These additional SMEs may be configured like the illustrated SME . In one embodiment the SME is a third party application. In one embodiment the SME is configured to provide short messages including information related to one or more of news sports technology entertainment politics health mobile applications subscriber accounts banking stock market and the like.

The PX gateway is configured to map extensible markup language XML encoding declarations to short message peer to peer SMPP data coding scheme DCS for mobile terminated MT SMS. The PX gateway includes a network interface a processor in communication with the network interface and a memory in communication with the processor. In one embodiment the memory includes instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform various operations such as those described immediately below.

The PX gateway is configured to receive a message from the SME for delivery to the mobile device . The message includes a payload with at least one character encoded in accordance with a first character encoding scheme. The PX gateway is further configured to receive a second encoding scheme for the message from the SME . The PX gateway is further configured to implement a mapping table to map the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme. The PX gateway is configured to perform an encoding transformation of the message from the first character encoding to the second character encoding scheme to yield a modified message including the payload of the message encoded in the second character encoding scheme as specified by the SME . Alternatively depending on the originating encoding scheme and the selected DCS transformation may not be necessary or wanted. For example if an encoding scheme of GP is specified and a DCS of Reserved is used then it may be that the PX gateway copies the message byte for byte allowing an application operating on the mobile device to properly handle the message. The PX gateway and the components thereof are illustrated and described in detail below with reference to .

The SMSC is an entity configured to receive store and forward SMS messages to a destination entity such as the mobile device .

The mobile device is configured to communicate with the SMSC via the RAN to send receive SMS messages. In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure the mobile device receives SMS messages originating from the SME and or other SMEs not illustrated . The mobile device and components thereof are described in detail below with reference to .

The RAN includes at least one radio communications component such as a base transceiver station BTS or Node b in GSM and UMTS network types respectively. The BTS Node b functions as the terminating node for the radio interface in the illustrated RAN . Each BTS Node b includes one or more transceivers and is responsible for providing the radio air interface to the mobile device .

Each radio communications component is in communication with a controller component such as a base station controller BSC or radio network controller RNC in GSM and UMTS network types respectively. Typically a BSC RNC has tens or even hundreds of BTSs Node bs under its control. The BSC RNC is configured to allocate radio resources to mobile devices e.g. the mobile device administer frequencies and control handovers between BTSs Node bs except in the case of an inter mobile switching center MSC handover in which case control is in part the responsibility of the MSC. One function of the controller component is to act as a concentrator so that many different low capacity connections to the radio communications component become reduced to a smaller number of connections towards the MSC. Generally this means that networks are often structured to have many BSCs RNCs distributed into regions near the BTSs Node bs and connected to large centralized MSC sites. In some embodiments a controller component and a radio communications component are combined.

Although the RAN has been generally described in context of a GSM UMTS network environment. The RAN may alternatively or additionally include components for operating using other network technologies such as the exemplary network technologies described herein above.

It should be noted that the illustrated network architecture does not illustrate certain core network components such as MSCs GPRS support nodes location registers and the like so as not to obscure the novel aspects of the present disclosure. These and other components are contemplated as being in communication with one or more of the illustrated components in implementation.

Referring now to a message flow diagram for a mobile terminated message is illustrated according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. The illustrated message flow provides no delivery receipt to the sending entity e.g. the SME . A message flow that provides a delivery receipt is illustrated and described with reference to .

The message flow assumes that the SME has generated a message including a payload that is encoded in a first character encoding scheme. The message flow begins at step whereat the SME specifies a second character encoding scheme for the payload of the message generated by the SME . In one embodiment the SME specifies a specific encoding scheme with deterministic results using the same client application i.e. the SME application calling the PX API identification rather than as is presently done using different client application identifications for different statically provisioned encoding schemes. It should be noted that today different API specifications Web Services WSDLs and services the server executable would have to be used on a PX gateway to accommodate different encoding scheme to DCS translations. To use the different PX APIs the SME would have to use different applications. The disclosed systems and methods eliminate the need to create different APIs for each transformation or mapping.

At step the SME sends a sendSMS PX message to the PX gateway . The sendSMS message includes the second encoding scheme specified by the SME . At step the PX gateway performs an encoding transformation using a mapping table stored in the PX gateway to map the payload encoded in the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme as specified by the SME .

In one embodiment the mapping table includes XML encoding declarations each of which is mapped to an SMPP data coding schemes. An exemplary mapping table is illustrated below.

After the PX gateway transforms the message payload from the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme the PX gateway generates an SMPP message including the transformed payload. The payload in an alternative embodiment is a byte for byte copy of the message payload. In this embodiment transformations are internally defined. This embodiment is most applicable to an instance wherein the mobile device would be expected to know the transformation for a specific Reserved DCS value.

In one embodiment the SMPP message is a submit sm message including text of the message payload encoded in the second character encoding scheme. In another embodiment the SMPP message is a submit multi message including text of the message payload encoded in the second character encoding scheme and a multimedia component. The multimedia component includes for example an image a video and or a sound.

At step the PX gateway sends the submit sm submit multi message to the SMSC . At step the PX gateway receives a submit sm resp or submit multi resp from the SMSC in response to the submit sm or submit multi respectively. At step the SMSC sends the message to the mobile device . At step the PX gateway sends a sendSMS resp PX message to the SME . The message flow ends.

Referring now to a message flow diagram for a mobile terminated message is illustrated according to another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. The illustrated message flow provides a delivery receipt to the sending entity e.g. the SME . A message flow that does not provide a delivery receipt is illustrated and described with reference to .

The message flow assumes that the SME has generated a message including a payload that is encoded in a first character encoding scheme. The message flow begins at step whereat the SME specifies a second character encoding scheme for the payload of the message generated by the SME . In one embodiment the SME can specify a specific encoding scheme with deterministic results using the same client application identification rather than as is presently done using different client application identifications for different statically provisioned encoding schemes.

At step the SME sends a sendSMS PX message to the PX gateway . The sendSMS message includes the second encoding scheme specified by the SME . At step the PX gateway performs an encoding transformation using a mapping table stored in the PX gateway to map the payload encoded in the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme as specified by the SME . In one embodiment the mapping table includes XML encoding declarations each of which is mapped to an SMPP data coding schemes. An exemplary mapping table is illustrated above in TABLE A.

After the PX gateway transforms the message payload from the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme the PX gateway generates an SMPP message including the transformed payload. In one embodiment the SMPP message is a submit sm message including text of the message payload encoded in the second character encoding scheme. In another embodiment the SMPP message is a submit multi message including text of the message payload encoded in the second character encoding scheme and a multimedia component. The multimedia component includes for example an image a video and or a sound.

It should be noted that when a multimedia component is included the PX interface is the PX multimedia API rather than the PX SMS API due to size limitations in the SMS message i.e. 160 7 bit characters 140 8 bit characters although it is possible to concatenate up to five SMS messages together to form a single long message.

At step the PX gateway sends the submit sm submit multi message to the SMSC . At step the PX gateway receives a submit sm resp or submit multi resp from the SMSC in response to the submit sm or submit multi respectively. At step the SMSC sends the message to the mobile device . At step the PX gateway sends a sendSMS resp PX message to the SME .

At step the mobile device responds to the message delivery with a delivery confirmation to the SMSC . At step the SMSC sends an SMPP deliver sm message to the PX gateway to notify the PX gateway of successful delivery. Alternatively the SMSC may notify the PX gateway of failed delivery if this is the case.

At step the PX gateway sends a PX NotifySmsDeliveryReceipt to the SME to notify the SME of successful delivery. At step the SME responds to the PX NotifySmsDeliveryReceipt with a PX NotifySmsDeliveryReceipt return message to confirm receipt of the delivery notification. Alternatively the PX gateway may notify the SME of failed delivery if this is the case.

At step the PX gateway sends an SMPP deliver sm resp to the SMSC confirm receipt of the deliver sm message and in the illustrated embodiment to confirm the sending entity i.e. the SME has received the delivery confirmation. The message flow ends.

Referring now to a method for mapping XML encoding declarations to SMPP DCS for MT SMS is illustrated according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be understood that the steps of the method are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all the steps in an alternative order is possible and is contemplated. The steps have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Steps can be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims. It should also be understood that the illustrated method can be ended at any time. In certain embodiments some or all steps of this process and or substantially equivalent steps can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions stored or included on a computer readable medium.

The method begins and flow is to block whereat an SME such as the SME generates a message with a payload encoded in a first character encoding scheme. At block the SME specifies a second character encoding scheme for the message payload. At block the SME sends the message and the second character encoding scheme to a gateway such as the PX gateway .

At step the gateway implements a mapping table to map the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme. At step the gateway performs an encoding transformation of the message from the first character encoding scheme to the second character encoding scheme yielding a modified message including the message payload encoded in the second character encoding scheme. At block the gateway sends the modified message to an SMSC such as the SMSC for delivery to a mobile device such as the mobile device . The method ends.

Referring now to the PX gateway and components thereof are illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Although connections are not shown between all components illustrated in the components can interact with each other to carry out various system functions described herein. It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented.

The PX gateway includes a network interface for facilitating communications between the PX gateway and other systems such as the short message entity SME the short message service center SMSC and other systems or components of the network architecture . The PX gateway also includes one or more processors that are in communication with one or more memory modules via one or more memory data busses . The memory module s is configured to store a mapping table and other data . The mapping table includes XML encoding declaration to SMPP DCS mappings for example as illustrated above in Table A.

The other data may include instructions that when executed by the processor s cause the processor s to among other operations perform an encoding transformation of a message payload received from an SME e.g. the SME from a first character encoding scheme e.g. an XML compatible character encoding and a second character encoding scheme e.g. an SMPP DCS to yield a modified message including the message payload encoded in the second character encoding scheme.

The term memory as used herein to describe the memory module s collectively includes all memory types associated with the PX gateway such as but not limited to processor registers processor cache random access memory RAM other volatile memory forms and non volatile semi permanent or permanent memory types for example tape based media tangible optical media solid state media hard disks combinations thereof and the like. While the memory module s is illustrated as residing proximate the processor s it should be understood that the memory module s is in some embodiments a remotely accessible storage system. Moreover the memory module s is intended to encompass network memory and or other storage devices in wired or wireless communication with the PX gateway .

Referring now to a schematic block diagram of an exemplary mobile device is illustrated. Although connections are not shown between the components illustrated in the components can interact with each other to carry out device functions. In some embodiments for example the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented.

In some embodiments the mobile device illustrated in is configured like the mobile device described with reference to . In some embodiments the mobile device is a multimode headset configured to provide access to more than one network type including for example the telecommunications technologies described above and or other technologies such as Wi Fi and WiMAX .

In some embodiments the mobile device includes computer readable media including for example volatile media non volatile media removable media and non removable media. The term computer readable media and variants thereof as used herein refer to storage media and communication media. In some embodiments storage media includes volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media. For example storage media includes random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM solid state memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible non transitory medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by the mobile device .

As illustrated in the mobile device includes a display for displaying multimedia such as for example SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages customer service messages over the air OTA messages unstructured supplementary service data USSD messages voicemail notification messages application graphical user interfaces GUIs text images video telephony functions such as Caller ID data setup functions menus music metadata wallpaper graphics Internet content device status preferences settings map and location data profile e.g. vibrate silent loud selection and the like.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a processor for processing data and or executing computer executable instructions of one or more applications stored in a memory . In some embodiments the application s include a user interface UI application . The UI application interfaces with a client e.g. an operating system OS to facilitate user interaction with device functionality and data. In some embodiments the client is one of Symbian OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Palm webOS available from Palm Corporation of Sunnyvale Calif. Palm OS available from Palm Corporation RIM BlackBerry OS available from Research In Motion Limited of Waterloo Ontario Canada Apple iPhone OS available from Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif. or Google Android OS available from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. . These operating systems are merely exemplary of the operating systems that may be used in accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein.

The UI application aids a user in activating service OTA if applicable entering message content viewing received messages e.g. MMS messages SMS messages USSD messages OTA messages answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and the like.

In one embodiment the other applications include an application that recognizes an incoming coding format based on the DCS. The application in an alternative embodiment chooses to analyze the bytes to determine the real encoding scheme to use.

In some embodiments the other applications include for example visual voicemail applications messaging applications e.g. SMS enhanced messaging service EMS MMS applications presence applications text to speech applications speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location service applications LSAs power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications are stored in the memory and or in a firmware and are executed by the processor . The firmware may also store code for execution during device power up and power down operations.

The illustrated mobile device also includes an input output I O interface for input output of data such as for example location information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface is a hardwire connection such as for example a USB mini USB audio jack PS2 IEEE 1394 serial parallel Ethernet RJ48 port RJ11 port or the like. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts other I O devices such as for example keyboards keypads mice interface tethers stylus pens printers thumb drives touch screens multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices monitors displays liquid crystal displays LCDs combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device instead of or in addition to a communications component .

The communications component interfaces with the processor to facilitate wired wireless communications with external systems. Example external systems include but are not limited to SMSCs intranets network databases network storage systems cellular networks location servers presence servers Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP networks local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs personal area networks PANs and other networks network components and systems described herein. In some embodiments the external systems are implemented using Wi Fi WiMAX combinations and or improvements thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for providing cellular communications via different cellular technologies. In some embodiments for example a first cellular transceiver operates in one mode such as GSM and an Nth cellular transceiver operates in a different mode such as UMTS. While only two cellular transceivers are illustrated it should be appreciated that a plurality of transceivers can be included.

The illustrated communications component also includes an alternative communications transceiver for use by other communications technologies such as for example Wi Fi Wi Max BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC RF and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also facilitates reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks Internet based radio services networks combinations thereof and the like.

The communications component processes data from a network such as for example the Internet an intranet e.g. business intranet a home broadband network a Wi Fi hotspot and the like via an Internet service provider ISP digital subscriber link DSL provider or broadband provider. In some embodiments the communications component facilitates the transmission of authentication information from the mobile device to a network for processing in accordance with the methods described herein.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a SIM slot interface for accommodating a SIM such as for example a SIM card a universal SIM USIM card or a universal integrated circuit card UICC including one or more SIM applications e.g. ISIM SIM USIM CSIM . The SIM is configured to store an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . The mobile device can only be operated if the SIM includes a valid IMSI and is inserted into the SIM slot interface of the mobile device with a valid IMEI.

Audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component that includes a speaker for the output of audio signals and a microphone to collect audio signals.

The mobile device may also include an image capture and processing system image system . Photos may be obtained via an associated image capture subsystem of the image system for example a camera. The mobile device may also include a video system for capturing processing recording modifying and or transmitting video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to an MMS message and sent to another mobile device.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a location component for sending and or receiving signals such as for example GPS data assisted GPS A GPS data Wi Fi Wi Max and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like for determining a location of the mobile device . The location component may communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location. In some embodiments the location component interfaces with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers for example Wi Fi hotspots radio transmitters combinations thereof and the like. Using the location component the mobile device obtains generates and or receives data to identify its location or transmits data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also includes a power source such as batteries and or other power subsystem AC or DC . The power source may interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

While the processes or methods described herein may at times be described in a general context of computer executable instructions the methods procedures and processes of the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including servers network systems single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices mobile devices microprocessor based consumer electronics programmable electronics network elements gateways network functions devices combinations thereof and the like.

The disclosed embodiments are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein for example exemplary and similar terms refer expansively to embodiments that serve as an illustration specimen model or pattern. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized such as to show details of particular components. In some instances well known components systems materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the systems methods and computer program products of the present disclosure. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art.

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely exemplary illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

