---

title: Limiting user interaction with a computing device based on proximity of a user
abstract: A first computing device monitors a presence of a second computing device, and determines when the second computing device has moved out of an area proximate to the first computing device. In response to determining that the second computer moved out of the area, the first computing device is automatically configured to limit user interaction with one or more applications currently operating on the first computing device to a predetermined set of commands while preventing user interaction with other applications provided by the first computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392104&OS=09392104&RS=09392104
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09392104
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150210
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 980 018 entitled Limiting User Interaction with a Computing Device Based on Proximity of a User filed on Apr. 15 2014 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

A computing device may be locked in response to a keystroke or after a certain time period in which the device has been inactive. The computing device may for example display a security screen which prompts a user to enter a passcode or provide one or more security credentials before the device is unlocked. On entry of the passcode the computer is unlocked and access to the computing device and data and programs stored thereon are made available.

The subject technology provides a system and computer implemented method for dynamic registration of a new user account on a computing device. In various aspects the method may include determining by a first computing device that a second computing device has moved out of an area proximate to the first computing device and in response to the determining automatically configuring the first computing device to limit user interaction with one or more applications currently operating on the first computing device to a predetermined set of commands while preventing user interaction with other applications provided by the first computing device. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatuses and computer program products for implementation of the computer implemented method.

In various aspects a computer program product tangibly embodied in a computer readable storage device comprises instructions that when executed by a first computing device cause the first computing device to determine that a second computing device has moved away from an area associated with the first computing device and in response to determining the second computing device has moved away enter into a locked mode in which user interaction with each of one or more currently operating applications on the first computing device is limited to a predetermined locked feature set and preventing user interaction with other applications. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatuses and computer program products for implementation of the machine readable medium.

In further aspects a system may include one or more processors and a memory. The memory may include instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to facilitate the steps of determining that a second computing device has moved away from an area associated with the system and in response to determining the second computing device has moved away configuring the system to limit user interaction with each of one or more currently operating applications provided by the one or more processors to a predetermined locked feature set and to prevent user interaction with other applications.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The subject technology provides various mechanisms to automatically register a user account with a computing device over a wireless connection without any physical interaction with the device and to lock and unlock a computing device based on the user s proximity to the device. When the computing device is locked based on proximity of the user according to aspects of the subject technology the device may automatically be configured to allow continued operation of selected applications and or features while preventing use of other applications.

In various aspects a primary computing device is operably connected to and or paired with a secondary computing device via Bluetooth or other wireless technology. The primary computing device may be for example a laptop or desktop computer and the secondary device may be for example a smart phone or other mobile device. The devices are configured such that when the user s secondary computing device approaches or moves a predetermined distance away from the primary computing device the primary computing device is automatically unlocked or locked. Unlocking or locking the device may include for example deactivating or activating a security screen displayed on the device. The primary computing device may be locked and unlocked based on the devices being within a threshold distance of each other. For example a distance between the devices may be determined based on one or more proximity sensors of the primary computing device signal strength of a Bluetooth or other wireless connection between the mobile device and the computing device data throughput and the like.

In some instances the secondary computing device may be configured to unlock or lock the primary computing device during registration of a user account on the primary or secondary device. User account profiles are generally stored in an account server for example on a data cloud. When configuring the primary computing device the primary computing device may be authorized to access the account server to retrieve account information based on one or more credentials. For example a user may sign in to the primary computing device using an email address and password and the device may use the sign in information to download the user s account information from the account server and configure the account information on the device. The primary computing device may then determine that the user s account is associated with the secondary computing device. The computing device may prompt the user as to whether the user would like to use the secondary computing device to unlock and lock the primary computing device e.g. a laptop may ask would you like to us this phone to unlock this laptop . If the user answers yes then the computing device may initiate an exchange of keys with the mobile device for use in unlocking or locking the computing device.

In various aspects the primary computing device e.g. a laptop is configured to allow dynamic registration of a user account on the device using an unknown secondary computing device over a wireless connection without any manual authentication to or physical interaction with the primary computing device. In this regard the primary computing device is configured to advertise an ability to accept dynamic login and or registration from other devices over a wireless connection e.g. a WiFi or Bluetooth Low Energy connection . The primary computing device is operably connected to the account server over a first network for example over the Internet and the secondary computing device is operably connected to the account server over a second network for example over a mobile network. The secondary computing device is also configured to recognize signals from the primary computing device over the wireless connection which designate the primary computing device as having the ability to accept dynamic registration.

When the secondary computing device discovers that the primary computing device accepts dynamic registration the secondary computing device may initiate a connection with the primary computing device to receive information about the primary computing device. The secondary computing device then informs its user that the primary computing device is nearby and or that the primary computing device accepts dynamic registration. The user may then initiate the registration process at the secondary computing device without any physical interaction with the primary computing device. An encrypted connection between the computing devices may then be automatically established and a request to register the user sent to the primary computing device over the wireless connection.

The subject technology also provides a mechanism for locking the primary computing device into an existing operational state when it is inferred that the user is no longer actively using the primary device. This might occur for example if the user of the primary computing device moves away. The primary computing device remembers the wireless signature of the secondary computing device e.g. a Bluetooth address of a mobile device when the devices are communicate or otherwise paired to each other. When the primary computing device detects that the secondary computing device is no longer present or has moved out of an area proximate to the primary computing device based on for example sensing the mobile device or strength of a pairing signal the primary computing device automatically enters into a locked mode by which certain interactive features of the computing device remain active to allow current operation of one or more presently executing applications. When the secondary computing device is later recognized as being proximate to the primary computing device the primary computing device may signal the secondary computing device asking whether the secondary computing device wishes to unlock all remaining features of the computing device and the secondary computing device may automatically confirm unlocking of the remaining features.

Primary computing device and secondary computing device in various implementations are tied to a user account. Accordingly a user is authorized to use the device by authenticating to the user account. The user account may be a universal account for multiple devices. In this regard information stored in connection with the user account may be centrally located on a third computing device for example on a server e.g. in a data cloud . Accordingly when data is received input or stored on either primary computing device or secondary computing device the data may be automatically replicated or co located to the centrally located user account on server . Similarly when the centrally located user account is updated the updated data may be synchronized with all operably connected and or configured account linked devices including primary computing device and secondary computing device .

In some aspects each account linked device may securely store e.g. using encryption a universal credential token e.g. an OPENID or OAUTH token for accessing the centrally located user account e.g. without use of the primary credentials attached to the account for example a username and password pair . An account linked device e.g. primary computing device or secondary computing device may prompt a user for input of the primary credentials upon a configuration of the device authenticate to the centrally located user account on server using the primary credentials and receive in response the universal credential token for subsequent authorizations. In this manner the account linked device may repeatedly access account related server resources on behalf of the account owner without having to pass the primary credential information over a network. Security implementations for authentication and or authorization may include for example OPENID or OATH Authentication schemes.

The upper portion of I depicts example data flows for associating one or more devices with primary computing device . In the depicted example primary computing device and secondary computing device are account linked devices that are connected to a user account stored at server . In this regard server may store in connection with the user account information about each account linked device. When a user signs in to e.g. authenticates to primary computing device and or a user account associate with the device e.g. using any credentials for the device including the primary credentials for the user account primary computing device may send a query to server to ask the server whether there are any other account linked devices associated with the user account. Server may respond by indicating there are one or more devices linked to the user account and provides one or more or all of them to primary computing device for selection by the user.

On selection of one or more of the account linked devices indicated by server primary computing device may send information about itself to server to be stored in connection with the user account and or forwarded to the selected device s for use in unlocking or locking primary computing device . In the depicted example primary computing device generates and sends a temporary e.g. cryptographic key to server to be sent along to secondary computing device which was previously selected by the user. Server then provides the temporary access key to secondary computing device . For example server may automatically push the temporary access key to secondary computing device over a network or secondary computing device may retrieve the temporary access key the next time the devices are connected. In some aspects primary computing device may also provide a primary wireless signature for itself and or other pairing information and the primary wireless signature and or pairing information may be provided to secondary computing device with the temporary access key. The primary wireless signature may be for example a Bluetooth hardware address MAC address basic service set identification BSSID . International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI stored in the subscriber identity module SIM Mobile Subscriber ISDN Number MSISDN assigned to a SIM Electronic Serial Number ESN Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID or any other address usable for identifying primary computing device over a wireless connection.

It is understood that identification and or selection of computing devices linked to an account may be accomplished without authenticating to primary computing device . For example a user may authenticate to a centrally located user account by directly accessing server for example from a web browser on a terminal computer or other non account linked computing device. In this regard server may have previously received temporary access keys and or wireless signatures from account linked devices for example during a registration of the devices or in connection with an authenticated session or communication exchange between the server and a respective device. In some implementations server may generate and provide the temporary access key to a device identified as being linked to the user account. In an example implementation server may also provide cloud assisted pairing for all devices known to be used by the user. For example the user may register with one device e.g. primary computing device or secondary computing device and the account server may push pairing information to all devices associated with the user s account. The pairing information may include for example one or more wireless signatures for each device to be paired in addition to any information to facilitate pairing of the devices. Proof of the user s identity e.g. a secret shared among multiple devices or a certificate may also be provided to the devices.

The middle portion of II depicts a configuration of secondary computing device to automatically unlock primary computing device . Once secondary computing device receives the temporary access key and or wireless signature of primary computing device secondary computing device configures itself to automatically connect to computing device over a wireless connection. Software installed on secondary computing device is configured to monitor an area surrounding the device for a wireless signal of primary computing device for example by recognizing the previously received wireless signature of primary computing device . The monitored area may span the range of the wireless hardware e.g. in which a reliable Bluetooth signal may be acquired or a predetermined area e.g. based on a predetermined signal strength . Additionally or in the alternative software operating on primary computing device may broadcast over a wireless access point a code which when interpreted by corresponding software on secondary computing device identifies primary computing device as a computing device configured to allow users with a particular type of user account to sign in to or be registered.

Once primary computing device is detected and the ability to dynamically sign in to the device the software on secondary computing device initiates a handshaking using the temporary access key. During the handshaking processes an encrypted connection is established between primary computing device and secondary computing device . Primary computing device may then provide secondary computing device a permanent access key for use in subsequent connection requests to primary computing device . Permanent access key may be a cryptographic key e.g. a certificate or private key for use in decrypting messages sent by primary computing device . Secondary computing device stores the permanent access key in a secured location on the device.

The lower portion of III depicts example data flows for automatically unlocking and locking primary computing device based on proximity of secondary computing device . Primary computing device stores the wireless signature of the secondary computing device and the permanent access key provided to secondary computing device . Software on primary computing device configures primary computing device on entering a locked mode e.g. when locked manually or after a period of inactivity to begin monitoring a wireless access point of primary computing device for the wireless signature of secondary computing device to determine if secondary computing device is present.

When in the locked mode primary computing device monitors and in the depicted example identifies and establishes a connection with secondary computing device while in the locked mode. The connection may be established based on pairing information previously shared between the devices. Identification of secondary computing device based on the stored wireless signature may occur before or in connection with pairing of the devices. For example primary computing device may detect the wireless signature and then automatically initiate pairing in response to the signature or software may monitor a paired device list associated with the wireless hardware of primary computing device for the wireless signature of secondary computing device . Similarly when already paired primary computing device may identify secondary computing device as becoming unpaired or moving out of range of the wireless access point e.g. based on signal strength or data throughput and automatically enter into a locked mode.

When primary computing device is in the locked mode and secondary computing device is recognized as being proximate to primary computing device e.g. in the paired device list primary computing device may send an encrypted challenge message to secondary computing device asking whether secondary computing device wishes to unlock primary computing device . Because the devices have previously information and secondary computing device has the permanent access key previously provided by primary computing device secondary computing device decrypts the challenge message for example to extract a challenge code within the message. Secondary computing device may then automatically assert the unlocking of primary computing device merely by encrypting a response code with the permanent access key and providing the encrypted response message to primary computing device . Software on primary computing device waits for the response and on receiving the response message which validates that secondary computing device is authorized to unlock primary computing device unlocks primary computing device for example by inactivating a security screen on the device. In some aspects secondary computing device may prompt the user before providing the response message to primary computing device to complete the unlocking transaction. When primary computing device detects that secondary computing device is no longer present or has moved a distance away primary computing device may automatically enter into the locked mode.

While the foregoing example depicts secondary computing device providing an unlocking of primary computing device it is understood that the roles may be reversed such that primary computing device may be used to unlock secondary computing device . In an example wherein secondary computing device is a mobile device with its screen locked the mobile device may be automatically unlocked upon moving within a predetermined range or distance from primary computing device .

As described previously primary computing device may be configured to detect a previously paired or otherwise registered unlocking device when primary computing device is in the locked mode. In the depicted example process primary computing device is in the locked mode. In this regard primary computing device may display a security access screen which prevents use or viewing of programs currently active on primary computing device . Accordingly when in the locked mode primary computing device detects secondary computing device as being a previously registered unlocking device . In response to detecting secondary computing device primary computing device sends an encrypted challenge message to secondary computing device asking whether secondary computing device wishes to unlock primary computing device .

Secondary computing device responds to the challenge by sending an encrypted challenge response code. The encrypted challenge response code is encrypted using a permanent access key which was previously provided by primary computing device and which primary computing device will recognize as being previously sent by primary computing device . Primary computing device receives the encrypted challenge response and on receiving the response message primary computing device decrypts the message and retrieves the unencrypted challenge response code.

By virtue of being able to decrypt the encrypted response code with the stored primary access key primary computing device validates secondary computing device as an unlocking device however primary computing device may take one or multiple actions depending on what indication s the code provides. In some implementations the challenge response code indicates whether secondary computing device the device sending the code is itself locked. In this manner primary computing device may not immediately unlock itself if the secondary computing device is locked. In the depicted example if the code indicates that secondary computing device is unlocked then primary computing device unlocks as described above with respect to . However if the code indicates that secondary computing device is locked e.g. displaying a security screen then primary computing device displays a limited credential input for unlocking primary computing device . For example primary computing device may display an input for entering a multiple digit e.g. 4 digit PIN personal identification number . Upon receiving the correct PIN at the input primary computing device unlocks e.g. removes the security access screen .

In the depicted example a primary computing device and secondary computing device are operably connected to server over one or more networks. For example primary computing device may be connected to server by network . Network may be a WAN LAN or any other network consisting of one or multiple networking technologies such as satellite cellular cable DSL optical network Ethernet over twisted pairs and others and which deploys one or multiple networking protocols for transferring data. Network may also include but is not limited to any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network a tree or hierarchical network and the like. Network may also be a wireless personal area network e.g. Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy infrared IrDA Wireless USB and the like .

Similarly secondary computing device may also be connected to server over network or may be connected to a different network or combination of networks. As depicted in secondary computing device may be operably connected to server by a mobile network . Mobile network may be operably connected to network such that data received from secondary computing device is transmitted to network via mobile network and then transmitted to server using network . Mobile network may include one or more wireless stations for wirelessly communicating with secondary computing device or other similarly situated devices. A wireless station may be for example a local WiFi base station wireless personal area network or in some aspects a cell site including a cell tower or antennae or radio receiver transmitter .

In some implementations system primary computing device secondary computing device server and or other components of system may be connected via a network to an online community product e.g. a social network . Accordingly one or more communications described herein e.g. encrypted messages may be transmitted via the online community product or services associated with the product. The various computing devices may also be connected to and or communicate with each other via the Internet or a private LAN WAN. Any of the various connections may be made over a wired or wireless connection.

Primary computing device is configured with wireless access point e.g. Bluetooth or Bluetooth Low Energy hardware for establishing a wireless connection with the device over a personal area network. Using wireless access point primary computing device is configured to advertise an ability to accept dynamic user registration of a user account over the wireless connection. For example software operating on primary computing device may broadcast over wireless access point a code which when interpreted by corresponding software on a receiving device identifies primary computing device as a computing device configured to allow users with a particular type of user account to sign in to or be registered. In various implementations primary computing device may broadcast the code together with a public key for establishing an encrypted connection.

Secondary computing device is configured to in response to detecting the ability of primary computing device to accept dynamic registration initiate handshaking with primary computing device to establish a wireless connection and initiate dynamic registration of a user account associated with secondary computing device on primary computing device . In some aspects secondary computing device may be configured to send a request including e.g. a request code to primary computing device in connection with the handshaking indicating a request initiate the dynamic user registration from secondary computing device over the established wireless connection. Both devices are configured to establish an encrypted connection using for example the public key shared by primary device . In various aspects the encrypted connection may be established in response to secondary computing device providing the request code to primary computing device .

Once the encrypted connection has been established secondary computing device is configured e.g. with software to send over the encrypted connection an account token for obtaining a centrally located user account associated with secondary computing device . In some implementations the account token may be a universal credential token e.g. an OPEN ID or OAUTH token tied to the user account stored at server for example at least partially in a database . In some implementations the account token may be a temporary token for use in obtaining access to the user account for a predetermined period of time e.g. a couple minutes . In this regard secondary computing device may be configured to before or in connection with establishing the wireless connection with primary computing device request and receive the temporary token from server e.g. over one or more operably connected networks . On receiving the temporary token secondary computing device may be configured to pass the temporary token to primary computing device over the encrypted connection. The temporary token may be associated with the user account or a universal credential token e.g. an OAuth passcode for the user account.

In one or more implementations prior to passing the account or temporary token to primary computing device secondary computing device may be configured to request confirmation from its user. For example software at secondary computing device may visually and or audibly prompt the user to confirm that the user wishes to register his or her user account with primary computing device see e.g. . If the user confirms the registration then secondary computing device may send the account token associated with the user s account to primary computing device over the encrypted wireless connection.

Primary computing device is configured to on receiving the account token use the account token to obtain user account information from server . In some implementations the account token only grants access to a limited scope of information for the user. In some implementations the account token grants access to the account as if the user was authenticating to the user account directly with a full set of the required credentials. Primary computing device is configured to use the token to query server for the account information. Server then provides the account information to primary computing device and primary computing device automatically registers the user account with the device so that the user may authenticate to primary computing device .

In the depicted example primary computing device is already associated with an existing user account User . During the foregoing registration process a new user account User is added to primary computing device when the account token is received by primary computing device and used to retrieve the account information from server see also e.g. . Additionally it is understood that the features described with respect to are combinable with the foregoing features described with respect to . For example after registration of new user account to primary computing device secondary computing device also being registered to new user account may be used to unlock or lock primary computing device based on proximity of secondary computing device . During the foregoing registration of secondary computing device primary computing device may provide secondary computing device a permanent key for use in unlocking or locking primary computing device . A user associated with new user account may also sign in to primary computing device and set up additional account linked devices for unlocking and locking the device.

In the depicted example flow diagram primary computing device and secondary computing device may be operably connected to server over one or more networks. Primary computing device provides e.g. advertises an indication that primary computing device accepts dynamic user registration of user accounts over a wireless connection . The indication may be provided for example by way of transmitting a code that may be retrieved by devices scanning or connected to wireless access point . With brief reference to secondary computing device receives the indication and initiates the registration process.

After or in connection with providing the indication a request to initiate the dynamic user registration is received from a second computing device over the wireless connection . The request to initiate the dynamic user registration may include for example to a predetermined code known to primary computing device for initiating the dynamic registration. In response to receiving the request or predetermined code an encrypted connection is established between primary computing device and the secondary computing device . After the encrypted connection is established primary computing device receives over the encrypted connection an account token for obtaining user account information corresponding to a user account associated with secondary computing device . As described previously the account token may be a universal credential token for use in authenticating to the user account or a temporary access key for obtaining the universal credential token or for retrieving user account information required to register the user account with primary computing device .

On receiving the account token primary computing device obtains the user account information based on the account token from server over a different network connection . As described previously primary computing device may be connected to server via a network and secondary computing device may be connected to server via a mobile network or combination of networks. Accordingly primary computing device registers the user account with the first computing device in response to obtaining the user account information . The request establishing the encrypted connection receiving the account token obtaining the user account information and registering the user account information all may be performed without any physical interaction with the first computing device. Once registered use of primary computing device may be authorized based on the user account information .

Alert may be displayed for example in response to secondary computing device receiving an indication that primary computing device accepts dynamic user registration. In some aspects as depicted by alert may visually or audibly indicate which user primary computing device belongs and or prompt the user of secondary computing device whether he or she wishes to sign in to primary computing device e.g. User A s device is nearby. Press to sign in . Primary computing device may also display a device alert indicating that a device capable of signing in to or registering with primary computing device has been detected.

On selecting to sign in secondary computing device may send a request to primary computing device to initiate the dynamic user registration over a wireless connection. At that point the request is received and an encrypted connection between the devices established. Secondary computing device may then be ready to send an account token to primary computing device. Prior to sending the token as depicted by secondary computing device may display a second alert which requests the user confirm the registration process. As described previously on receiving confirmation that the user wishes to complete the registration process secondary computing device sends the account token to primary computing device and primary computing device automatically contacts server to obtain account information associated with the account token and registers the user s account with primary computing device .

Once the user account has been registered with primary computing device as depicted by security access screen indicates that User A and User B are authorized to sign in to primary computing device . Secondary computing device may then display a third alert which indicates to the user that the registration was successful. Security access screen may then be automatically removed and User B automatically authorized to user primary computing device . Any part the foregoing registration process may be implemented without display of access security screen . For example if User A is currently signed in to primary computing device then the account information may be registered with the device in the background and control maintained by User A. Additionally or in the alternative the foregoing various alerts or sequence of alerts described by may also be applicable to other processes described herein for example with respect to alerting a user of that primary computing device is available nearby for unlocking.

In one or more implementations the predetermined distance by which primary computing device determines that secondary computing device has moved away or is nearby may be based on for example whether the devices are currently paired signal strength of the secondary computing device data throughput over the wireless connection and the like. Primary computing device may flag a currently operating application based on sensing activity generated by the application or by a level of user interaction with the application and only allow user interactions with a certain set of features of the flagged application. For example primary computing device and secondary computing device may be paired and communicating over for example a personal area network or other wireless network . Secondary computing device may then move away from primary computing device . When primary computing device detects that secondary computing device has moved sufficiently far away e.g. by virtue of no longer being paired or the signal strength of the connection diminishing to a predetermined level primary computing device automatically enters into a locked mode .

According to the depicted example when in the locked mode use of primary computing device by users may be limited based on predetermined locked feature sets of the respective applications installed on primary computing device . For example each application may have a full feature set and a limited feature set. On entering the locked mode primary computing device may be configured to determine one or more currently operating applications and allow use of a limited feature set for one or more of those applications. Accordingly a currently operating application s full feature set may no longer available while in the locked mode and the limited feature set of an application may be a subset of the features available to full feature set for the application. The extent of functionality available in limited feature set may be determined based on for example the sensitivity of the application or the data used in connection with the application or the level of account permissions associated with the currently signed in user account.

Additionally or in the alternative primary computing device may be configured to determine one or more non operating applications on the first computing device that are associated with multiple feature sets for use in the locked mode and limit user interaction with each of the one or more non operating applications according to their associated respective feature set. For example a limited feature set may be available even if the applications were initially not operating or idle when primary computing device entered the locked mode.

In one or more example implementations one application operating on primary computing device may be for example a web browser displaying a webpage of a streaming video service in a tab of the web browser. When secondary computing device moves away from primary computing device primary computing device may enter into a locked mode in which only the tab of the web browser accepts user interaction. The web browser is configured to limit user interaction to content displayed in the active tab. For example the currently active tab may become locked in place and other tabs disabled or otherwise rendered unusable. Any users remaining proximate to primary computing device may not interact with other tabs of the web browser or other applications on the device. In this regard sensitive user data may be protected. For example primary computing device on entering the locked mode may restrict access to history data preferences known user email components or URLs and other sensitive information. In some aspects the locked mode may also prevent further navigation from a currently displayed web page.

In some implementations each application operating on the computing device may be associated with a level of sensitivity and primary computing device may determine when in the locked mode whether to allow user interaction with an application or operation based on the level of sensitivity assigned to the application or operation. For example low level sensitivity operations may include interacting with a currently displayed web page or a currently operating application. Mid level sensitivity operations may include browser navigation or opening other tabs in a browser or opening applications that do not access certain operating system features such as the file system. High level sensitivity operations may include viewing user information or navigation history or executing or interacting with applications that have access to operating system features or the file system. Applications and application features may be indexed in the lookup table by sensitivity level and sensitivity levels available during the locked mode predetermined by administrative action prior to the device entering into the locked mode. In one implementation the locked mode may allow user interaction with all applications having low level sensitivity operations but also allow user interaction with applications having mid level sensitivity under certain conditions e.g. when the computing device is located at a known safe location .

In some implementations applications may be pre registered for use with the subject technology such that each application has a predetermined feature set usable when in the locked mode. Pre registration may be by way of for example integration with an API application programming interface configured to allow applications the ability to dynamically register at runtime which features are to be available or restricted when the device is in the locked mode.

In one example implementation a registered application may be an audio or multimedia player. Accordingly based on a pre registered feature set for use in the locked mode user interaction with the player may be limited to interactions required for playback of media provided by the player. For example user interaction may be limited to only forward reverse stop play and volume functions. However selecting a new audio or video stream for playback may be restricted. If the application is a virtual game then user interaction may be limited to interactions required for playing the virtual game and in some implementations users may be prevented from initiating a new game when a current game is completed.

In the depicted example flow diagram primary computing device and secondary computing device are operably connected to each other over a network. For example the devices may be in communication using Bluetooth Infrared or other technology. In some aspects the devices are configured to communicate with each other over a wireless personal area network. Accordingly primary computing device monitors the presence of secondary computing device . For example primary computing device may detect the wireless signature of secondary computing device in a paired device list associated with the wireless hardware of primary computing device and then monitor the paired device list for the wireless signature of secondary computing device .

At some point primary computing device determines that secondary computing device has moved out of an area proximate to primary computing device . For example primary computing device may communicate with secondary computing device over the wireless personal area network and then determine that secondary computing device is no longer in the wireless personal area network e.g. no longer in the paired device list and thus no longer available for communication. Additionally or in the alternative primary computing device may monitor a signal strength associated with secondary computing device and then determine that the signal strength no longer satisfies a predetermined level e.g. has declined below a certain dB microvolts per meter or its data throughput has declined below a certain kBits second .

In response to the determining primary computing device enters into a locked mode in which primary computing device is configured to limit user interaction with one or more applications currently operating on the first computing device to a predetermined set of commands while preventing user interaction with other applications provided by the first computing device . In some aspects the one or more applications to which user interaction will be limited is determined based on an amount of user interaction with the one or more applications satisfying a predetermined threshold level of interaction.

For example if a user is interacting with a video by pressing pause then play or rewind then primary computing device may determine that the number of interactions over a predetermined period of time with the application satisfies the threshold level of interaction and the application responsible for playing the video will be allowed to continue operating but limited in function. In another example a limited feature set or used by primary computing device while in the locked mode may exclude predetermined sensitive operations. For example a website or virtual game may include functions that allow users or players to make purchases. The function of making purchases may be an excluded function in the limited feature set. In this manner users or players are restricted from making purchases using the website or virtual game until primary computing device is no longer operating in the locked mode e.g. by way of secondary computing device returning to the area proximate to primary computing device .

In some aspects primary computing device may be configured to determine whether to limit a feature set based on whether the operating application allows for little or no user interaction e.g. a background process or allows for a higher amount of user interaction e.g. by allowing for manipulation of features by way of a user interface . Whether an application is classified as allowing for little or no interaction or a higher amount of interaction may be based on a flag set for each application. For example an application s feature set may also be limited based on whether the features of the application are classified as user interactive. Interaction with interactive portions of an application may be limited while allowing background processes performed by the application to continue operating without limitation. In this regard a part of an operating application associated with low user interaction e.g. a module operating as a background process may be determined to have a current data throughput satisfying the activity threshold for the application and thus allowed to continue operating without limitation.

A feature set of an operating application or non operating application may also be limited based on a level of activity generated by the application. For example an API or other service operating on primary computing device may monitor a current level of activity associated with each operating application and select which applications will be allowed to continue operating based on whether the current level of activity associated with the application satisfies a predetermined activity threshold for the type of application e.g. high or low user interaction . For example a data throughput of an operating application may be monitored and the feature set for the application selected based on whether the data throughput satisfies a predetermined amount of data per unit of time. Whether the feature set is limited may also be based on whether the application is classified as being interactive and whether the current level of activity satisfies an activity threshold.

Based on the classification of the application and or current level of activity user interaction with user interactive portions of an application may be limited while background processes performed by the application are allowed to continue operating e.g. without limitation . By way of examples a background process of an application that is uploading photos to a cloud storage may be allowed to continue uploading the photos. In a similar manner the interactive portion of an application may be limited to a feature set in which initiating and or choosing new photos to upload may be discontinued and or restricted. In another example the user interface of the application which is associated with higher user interaction may satisfy the activity threshold but is disabled or set to a limited feature set to restrict user interaction. For example an audio or multimedia player that is currently streaming audio and or video may be allowed to continue operating to stream the audio or video but be limited in function with regard to the ability of the user to interact with the application e.g. to choose new stations etc. .

In some implementations multiple feature sets may be maintained for each application installed on primary computing device. For example each application may include a first locked feature set and or a second locked feature set. In response to determining that secondary computing device moved out of the area primary computing device may determine which of the applications in the group of applications are operating determine a respective first locked feature set for each of the operating applications and then for each operating application limit user interaction with the operating application according to the respective first locked feature set for the operating application. Additionally or in the alternative primary computing device may determine which of the applications in the group of applications are not currently operating determine a respective second locked feature set for each of the non operating applications and then for each non operating application limit user interaction with the non operating application according to the respective second locked feature set of the non operating application.

Many of the above described example processes and and related features and applications may be implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

The term software is meant to include where appropriate firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software aspects of the subject disclosure can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software aspects of the subject disclosure. In some implementations multiple software aspects can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software aspect described here is within the scope of the subject disclosure. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Electronic system may include various types of computer readable media and interfaces for various other types of computer readable media. In the depicted example electronic system includes a bus processing unit s a system memory a read only memory ROM a permanent storage device an input device interface an output device interface and one or more network interfaces . In some implementations electronic system may include or be integrated with other computing devices or circuitry for operation of the various components and processes previously described.

Bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of electronic system . For instance bus communicatively connects processing unit s with ROM system memory and permanent storage device .

From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject disclosure. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. Permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when electronic system is off. Some implementations of the subject disclosure use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a floppy disk flash drive and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device . Like permanent storage device system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. System memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the processes of the subject disclosure are stored in system memory permanent storage device and or ROM . From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

Bus also connects to input and output device interfaces and . Input device interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface include for example alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . Output device interfaces enables for example the display of images generated by the electronic system . Output devices used with output device interface include for example printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations include devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network not shown through network interfaces . Network interfaces may include for example a wireless access point e.g. Bluetooth or WiFi . Network interfaces may also include hardware e.g. Ethernet hardware for connecting the computer to a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks such as the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system can be used in conjunction with the subject disclosure.

These functions described above can be implemented in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

Those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application. Various components and blocks may be arranged differently e.g. arranged in a different order or partitioned in a different way all without departing from the scope of the subject technology.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. The previous description provides various examples of the subject technology and the subject technology is not limited to these examples. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the claims.

The term website as used herein may include any aspect of a website including one or more web pages one or more servers used to host or store web related content and the like. Accordingly the term website may be used interchangeably with the terms web page and server. The predicate words configured to operable to and programmed to do not imply any particular tangible or intangible modification of a subject but rather are intended to be used interchangeably. For example a processor configured to monitor and control an operation or a component may also mean the processor being programmed to monitor and control the operation or the processor being operable to monitor and control the operation. Likewise a processor configured to execute code can be construed as a processor programmed to execute code or operable to execute code.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. An aspect may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as an embodiment does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an embodiment may apply to all embodiments or one or more embodiments. An embodiment may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an embodiment may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A configuration may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. Furthermore to the extent that the term include have or the like is used in the description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprise as comprise is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

