---

title: Data subscription management system
abstract: A method includes a digital subscription management system (DSMS) receiving from a source system a request to perform an edit of at least one data object, the DSMS sending a request for response (RFR) to subscribing systems having a copy of the at least one data object, the DSMS receiving a response from the subscribing systems, and the DSMS performing the edit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633069&OS=09633069&RS=09633069
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09633069
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150911
---
The present invention relates to a method and system for managing data owned by a source system and distributed to subscribing systems for consumption.

Data is a top priority for every business some of which may be mission critical and challenging to manage. Challenges may stem from i growth in demand due to enhanced digital content e mail internet based applications and emerging technologies in multimedia e.g. Blu ray Disc Blu ray Disc BD is a registered trademark of the Blu ray Disc Association BDA 4G telephone networks etc. ii pressure to retain data for compliance with growing numbers of regulations worldwide and iii threats to business continuity posed by disaster outages or even human error. Furthermore data management is critical in the era of enterprise wide electronic records management.

Several document and records management software exist on the market today. These products include e.g. Microsoft Sharepoint Hewlett Packard AppIQ Filenet DB2 Commonstore DB2 Information Integrator IBM Content Document and Records Manager etc. Microsoft Sharepoint and the Windows logo are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both. Hewlett Packard is a registered trademark of Hewlett Packard Development Company L.P. in the United States other countries or both. Filenet is a registered trademark of FileNet Corporation in the United States other countries or both. IBM and DB2 are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both. These products provide functionality to manage unstructured content and provide policy driven management functions.

Although there are currently technologies available that enable data management data consistency remains of a primary concern within these products. For example in the critical area of ensuring data consistency several subscribing systems accessing the same set of unstructured data may obtain different copies of the document or even have deleted copies of such documents. That is it is not uncommon for different subscribing systems to have data which is no longer useful.

In one example a source system creates and or originates a data object and is the owner of the data object and subscribing systems consume or use the data object once it is distributed by the source system. For example the subscribing system may use the data object to execute some function or to create depending data objects or subsequent data records. Also subscribing systems may create dependent data or objects relating to the received data either through copy and update procedures or overwriting the original local file. However once the data is distributed to the subscribers ensuring data integrity between the source system and subscribing systems becomes very difficult and situations of data inconsistency may arise such as when the source system deletes a record or file on its local system but the distributed copies of the data object on the subscribers systems are not deleted thereby resulting in rogue copies and thus data inconsistencies.

Moreover the source system may or may not send a transaction to the subscribing systems indicating that the data object was deleted in the source system thereby creating data inconsistency. Furthermore if the source system does send such a transaction then the subscribing system may or may not take action based on the solution in the subscribing system. Thus the source system and the subscribing systems may have data inconsistencies and be out of sync. Furthermore if a subscribing system relates the distributed copy of the data object to another object e.g. in a subscribing system database deleting the distributed copy of the data may create an orphan document and thus may create data inconsistencies.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a method comprises receiving from a source system a request to perform an edit of at least one data object and sending a request for response RFR to subscribing systems having a copy of the at least one data object. The method further comprises receiving a response from each of the subscribing systems and performing the edit.

In a further aspect of the invention a system comprises a digital subscription management system DSMS configured to receive from a source system a request to perform an edit of at least one data object and send a request for response RFR to subscribing systems having a copy of the at least one data object. Additionally the DSMS is configured to receive a response from each of the subscribing systems and perform the edit.

In a further aspect of the invention a computer program product comprises a computer usable medium having readable program code embodied in the medium. The computer program product includes at least one component to receive from a source system a request to perform and edit of at least one data object and send a request for response RFR to subscribing systems having a copy of the at least one data object. The computer program product further includes at least one component to receive a response from each of the subscribing systems and perform the edit.

The invention relates to a method and system for managing data owned by a source system and distributed to subscribing systems for consumption. By implementing the method and system organizations can centrally manage record keeping policies on distributed content or data objects regardless of where content is physically stored. Additionally by implementing the present invention it is possible to improve data management by eliminating data inconsistencies. More specifically by implementing aspects of the invention it is possible to eliminate data inconsistencies between a source system and subscribing systems by preventing the occurrence of rogue data and orphan data.

In implementations a Data Subscription Management System DSMS manages the dissemination of data objects and helps to control or prevent the dissemination of rogue data objects content or files. In embodiments the DSMS stores knowledge of itself and partner source systems and the data that each source system publishes enabled through a grid mesh network network file shares grid storage etc. . Additionally the DSMS manages the subscribers of the published data and leverages content metadata to control the published data itself. Furthermore the DSMS may disallow published content deletion of a data object that has at least one subscriber.

The computer infrastructure includes a computing device that comprises an application which includes a program control operable to perform processes herein e.g. manage data owned by a source system and distributed to subscribing systems for consumption e.g. process described herein. The computing device includes a processor a memory A an input output I O interface and a bus . The memory A can include local memory employed during actual execution of program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Further the computing device is in communication with an external I O device resource and a storage system B. The external I O device resource may be keyboards displays pointing devices etc.

The processor executes computer program code e.g. program control which is stored in memory A and or storage system B. While executing computer program code the processor can read and or write data to from memory A storage system B and or I O interface . The bus provides a communications link between each of the components in the computing device . The I O device can comprise any device that enables an individual to interact with the computing device or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link.

The computing device can comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server handheld device etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments the computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the processes described herein. Further while performing the processes described herein one or more computing devices in the computer infrastructure can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to computer infrastructure using any type of communications link. The communications link can comprise any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

In embodiments the invention provides a business method that performs the steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In The DSMS is in communication with a plurality of source systems and and subscribing systems . The source systems and contain source data objects in communication represented by lines with the DSMS . It should be understood that while three source systems and three subscribing systems are shown the invention contemplates any number of source systems and subscribing systems.

Each source system e.g. includes an application programming interface API function that communicates with the DSMS . More specifically the API function publishes data objects to the DSMS and communicates requests and responses to and from the DSMS . The API function may be a software program or function that interfaces and communicates with the DSMS . By way of example the API function may communicate with the DSMS to request deletion of certain data as discussed herein.

In embodiments each of the source systems and may register with the DSMS . This allows the DSMS to be aware of each of the source systems and all of the data objects those source systems may contain. Moreover the source system knowledge of subscribing systems and content may be replicated to other source systems so that each source system may be aware of the other source systems and subscribing systems. Accordingly in embodiments the source systems e.g. may create a data object and publish the data object to the DSMS . A record map may be created in the DSMS that relates the source system and the data object.

The plurality of subscribing systems and subscribe to the DSMS and are in communication represented by lines with the DSMS . In embodiments each subscribing system e.g. and includes an API function that is responsible for communicating with the DSMS . The API function may be a software program or function that interfaces and may communicate with the DSMS . More specifically the API function may receive deletion requests or requests for response RFRs from the DSMS and communicate responses to the DSMS . Additionally according to an aspect of the invention by subscribing to the DSMS the subscribing systems e.g. may obligate themselves to respond to the RFRs.

In implementation the subscribing system e.g. or may need a particular data object. To obtain the data object the subscribing system which is registered with the DSMS requests and acquires a copy of the particular data object from the DSMS . In embodiments the subscribing system may not know and may not need to know which source system created the data object. Once the subscribing system subscribes to a data object that has been published in the DSMS data will be added to the record map indicating the relationship between the source system the data object and the subscribing systems.

If a source system wants to delete a data object published to the DSMS rather than deleting the data object in the source system e.g. a source system database the source system will send a deletion request to the DSMS . Once a deletion request for a data object is initiated in a source system the DSMS will flag the record map for that data object indicating that a deletion request for that data object has been received. In embodiments the flag will prevent future transactions against that data object until that data object is either deleted or the deletion flag removed. Thus once a data object has been flagged no other subscribing system may be able to receive a copy of the data object until the flag is removed.

After the deletion flag is set the DSMS will interrogate the subscribing systems to determine which of the subscribing systems may have a copy of the data object subject to the deletion request. In embodiments the DSMS may utilize the record map to determine which subscribing systems have a copy of the data object subject to the deletion request. Also in embodiments the DSMS may send a deletion request e.g. a request for response to the subscribing systems that have subscribed to that data object. Once the DSMS sends a deletion request to the subscribing system a request to terminate the dependency e.g. a subscribing system s subscription to the data object will be triggered. When all dependencies are broken e.g. no more rogue or orphan documents exist related to that data object the source system may carry out the formal deletion by deleting the data object in the source system e.g. a source system database .

Additionally in embodiments if the DSMS determines that a subscribing system has a copy of the data object subject to deletion the DSMS may prevent the deletion of the data object both in the DSMS and the source system until each subscribing system has taken appropriate action. Also appropriate action or a response by a subscribing system e.g. may be a deletion of the data object in the subscribing system e.g. a subscribing system database . By deleting the data object in the subscribing system the dependency of the subscribing system on the source system for that data object will be terminated.

However there may be situations where a deletion of the data object in the subscribing system may create orphan documents. That is the subscribing system may have related the data object subject to the deletion request with other data in their system. In this situation if the subscribing system were to delete the data object in their system the related other data may become orphan documents. In other words were the deletion to be carried out the related other data would be related to a non existing data object. An appropriate action or response by the subscribing system in this situation may include identifying the data object subject to the deletion request as e.g. no longer useable no longer current not a complete record not an accurate record etc. in the subscribing system e.g. a subscribing system database while maintaining a copy of the data object. Thus according to this aspect of the invention the subscribing system may not be required to delete the data object. This aspect of the invention allows for data consistency between a source system and a subscribing system as the dependency to the data object has been terminated while preventing the creation of orphan documents which is a form of data inconsistency within the subscribing system .

Once a response has been received by the DSMS from a subscribing system the DSMS may determine if all subscribers have responded. Once all responses from the subscribing systems have been received by the DSMS indicating that appropriate action has been taken the DSMS may execute the deletion action against the flagged data object in the DSMS e.g. a DSMS database and send a reply that the deletion of the data object has been completed to the corresponding source system. Upon receiving the notification that the DSMS has executed the deletion action against the flagged data object the source system may delete their original copy of the data object thus completing the deletion.

According to a further aspect of the invention each subscribing system may have an application programming interface API function that will act per the request of the DSMS which will trigger a request for response RFR to be sent to the subscribing systems. The RFR may indicate that deletion of the data object has been requested and may direct the subscribing systems to take some appropriate action.

Additionally while the invention has been described as a stand alone system according to an aspect of the invention the DSMS may be a modular system that may be added to a pre existing system e.g. a database system. In embodiments this may require the source systems and the subscribing systems to incorporate API systems for communicating with the DSMS .

Furthermore while the invention has been described in terms of deletion requests the invention contemplates other actions that may be managed by the DSMS . For example a source system may wish to make alterations to a data object or create a replacement data object. According to aspects of the invention these types of data requests may be handled through the DSMS to ensure data consistency.

According to a further aspect of the invention in the event that a record or flagged content is requested as part of a litigation for example the source systems via replicated databases in the preferred embodiment will have the knowledge of which subscribing system s has have the content. Through the use of additional functions in the source systems the flagged content can be recaptured for use in the litigation and logically moved into another policy set for special or exception handling.

The steps of the flow diagram described herein may be implemented in the environment of . The flow diagram may equally represent a high level block diagram of the invention. The steps of the flow diagram may be implemented and executed from either a server in a client server relationship or they may run on a user workstation with operative information conveyed to the user workstation. Additionally the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In an embodiment the software elements include firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. The software and or computer program product can be implemented in the environment of . For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disc read write CD R W and DVD.

At step a determination may be made as to whether a source system has issued a deletion request for a data object. If at step the source system has not issued a deletion request at step the DSMS will continue to monitor for deletion requests and the process proceeds to step . If at step the source system has issued a deletion request for a source data object at step the DSMS may set a data object deletion flag in the DSMS. According to an aspect of the invention setting the deletion flag may disallow all future requests for and or distribution of the particular data object.

At step the DSMS may send a request for response RFR to all subscribing systems that have a copy of the data object subject to deletion. The RFR may request that the subscribing system delete the data object on their system and send a response indicating the deletion. Additionally the RFR may request information regarding the subscriber systems state of use of the data object and set configurable policy thresholds for future use by the subscribing system e.g. eliminating the dependency while allowing the subscribing system to maintain a copy of the data object .

At step a determination may be made whether all responses have been received from the subscribing systems that have a copy of the data object subject to deletion. If at step all responses have not been received then the process continues with step . If at step all responses have been received then the process proceeds to step .

At step when all the subscriber systems of the data object have responded to the RFR the DSMS may notify the source system that all RFRs have been received remove the flag and delete their copy of the particular data object subject to the deletion request e.g. in a DSMS database . At step upon notification from the DSMS that the data object is no longer required and or that the flag has been removed the source system may delete the original data object in their system e.g. a source system database . At step the process ends.

While the invention has been described in terms of embodiments those of skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications and in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

