---

title: Swipable product swatching
abstract: In an example embodiment, a system for displaying a product in a touch-sensitive display of a portable electronic device comprises at least one module, executing on one or more computer processors to present a graphical image representative of the product in the touch-sensitive display, detect a slide-based contact with the touch-sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display, and display, in response to the detection of the slide-based contact, an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch-sensitive display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09383854&OS=09383854&RS=09383854
owner: Radial, Inc.
number: 09383854
owner_city: King of Prussia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150428
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 888 723 filed on May 7 2013 the benefit of priority of which is claimed hereby and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to user interfaces that employ touch sensitive displays and more particularly to the display of swatches of products on user interfaces on portable electronic devices.

Touch screens are now ubiquitous as displays and as user input devices on portable devices such as mobile telephones and personal digital assistants PDAs . One problem associated with using touch screens on portable devices is the unintentional activation or deactivation of functions due to unintentional contact with the touch screen and the small size of items appearing in the screen. In web based applications swatches for a product such as different colors of a shirt for example have traditionally been represented on web user interfaces with small block images of the color associated with the shirt placed next to a graphical image of the shirt. On the user interfaces of mobile devices there is very little room to show these additional color images and if viewed in the browser on a mobile device or tablet the browser shrinks the screen down making it difficult to view or click on these images.

In an example embodiment the present subject matter provides a system for displaying a product offering in a touch sensitive display of a hand held electronic device the system comprising at least one module executing on one or more computer processors to present a graphical image representative of the product in the touch sensitive display detect a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and display in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

In another example embodiment the present subject matter provides a machine readable medium including instructions which when performed by a machine causes the machine to perform the operations of presenting a graphical image representative of a product in a touch sensitive display of a hand held electronic device detecting a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and displaying in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

In another example embodiment the present subject matter provides a portable electronic device comprising a touch sensitive display memory one or more modules including processors operable under instructions stored in the memory to display a product offering in the touch sensitive display the instructions including presenting a graphical image representative of the product in the touch sensitive display detecting a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and displaying in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

These and other examples and features of the present subject matter will be set forth in part in the following Detailed Description. This Summary is intended to provide non limiting examples of the present subject matter. It is not intended to provide an exclusive or exhaustive explanation. The Detailed Description is included to provide further information about the present subject matter.

Location For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term location is used to refer to a geographic location such as a longitude latitude combination or a street address. The term location is also used within this specification and claims in reference to a physical location associated with a retail outlet e.g. store .

Real time For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term real time is used to refer to calculations or operations performed on the fly as events occur or input is received by the operable system. However the use of the term real time is not intended to preclude operations that cause some latency between input and response so long as the latency is an unintended consequence induced by the performance characteristics of the machine.

Swatch image an image depicting an aspect relating to a variant of a product. The aspect may include color texture material size function purpose price configurability time and strength of the product variant. Other aspects are possible and will be apparent to a person skilled in the art. A swatch image includes any object that can be displayed to a user including without limitation text icons such as user interface objects including soft keys digital images videos animations and the like.

Array of swatch images includes at least one swatch image in addition to the graphical image of the product.

Product includes a physical item or a service. The product may be an item for sale or part of a product offering for example. The product may also be a logo trademark or other device. Other products are possible and will be apparent to a person skilled in the art.

Hand held electronic device the terms hand held mobile or portable electronic device are used interchangeably in this specification. The term includes smartphones PDAs tablets and so forth.

Graphical image includes any object that can be displayed to a user including without limitation text icons such as user interface objects including soft keys digital images videos animations and the like.

Touch based contact a contact made by a user on a touch sensitive screen generally at a single point contact. For example a user may touch the screen using a finger or other pointing device such as a tap pen.

Slide based contact a contact made by a user on a touch sensitive screen generally using a swiping action. A user may for example swipe the screen using a finger or other pointing device such as a tap pen. The swiping action may follow a liner or generally arcuate path over the screen.

As mentioned further above product swatches such as the colors of a shirt have typically been represented on web pages as tiny images of the color displayed below or adjacent the main image of a product. Clicking these images in a web interface typically changes the main image to the swatch color selected. Mobile and tablet devices have a smaller form factor. On a mobile device these elements are hard to click on or select due to their small size. The swatch images also take up valuable screen space.

The present subject matter uses in some examples a swipe or touch sensitive interface native to the mobile device to display product swatches on a single product image. In some examples parallax scrolling where layers of an image move at different speeds is employed. For a product image to be displayed or associated with swatches a user is provided with the ability to view for example additional colors of the product simply by sliding across the product image. Other swatch images are possible. The additional swatches in some examples appear adjacent the image or in other examples may fan out beneath or next to the image like a deck of cards. In some examples the fanned images lock in that position until the user effects a further screen navigation. In some examples the fanned images retract automatically after a passage of time or after release of the user s finger from the fanned images on the screen.

Since the user in some examples is simply sliding across a product image to effect a fanning of product swatches additional touch screen controls or action elements such as payment options express or quick shop type implementations can remain visible and operable. In some examples the present subject matter allows display of swatches using a slide based interface rather than a touch based interface and this can allow slide based and touch based controls to be provided simultaneously on a single product image. The provision of such product displays can facilitate the viewing selection and purchase of products and associated variants online particularly via mobile devices. The present subject matter can augment the streams of ecommerce accordingly.

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1xRTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

A plurality of servers may be coupled via interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. These servers may be configured to provide various types of services to the mobile device . For example one or more servers may execute location based service LBS applications which interoperate with software executing on the mobile device to provide LBSs to a user. LBSs can use knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices to provide location specific information recommendations notifications interactive capabilities and or other functionality to a user. For example an LBS application can provide location data to a network based check in system which can then be used to assist in generating offers relevant to the user s current location and enable payment via the network based payment service . Knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices may be obtained through interoperation of the mobile device with a location determination application executing on one or more of the servers . Location information may also be provided by the mobile device without use of a location determination application such as application .

In certain examples the mobile device may have some limited location determination capabilities that are augmented by the location determination application . In some examples the servers can also include publication application for providing location aware offers that may be triggered by present or past check ins with the network based check in system . In certain examples location data can be provided to the publication application by the location determination application . In some examples the location data provided by the location determination application can include merchant information e.g. identification of a retail location . In certain examples the location determination application can receive signals via the network to further identify a location. For example a merchant may broadcast a specific IEEE 802.11 service set identifier SSID that can be interpreted by the location determination application to identify a particular retail location. In another example the merchant may broadcast an identification signal via radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC or a similar protocol that can be used by the location determination application .

In some embodiments in addition to the touch screen the device may include a touchpad not shown for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some embodiments the touchpad is a touch sensitive area of the device that unlike the touch sensitive display does not display visual output. The touchpad may be a touch sensitive surface that is separate from the touch sensitive display or an extension of the touch sensitive surface formed by the touch sensitive display .

The mobile device may also include a power system for powering the various components. The power system may include a power management system one or more power sources e.g. battery alternating current AC a recharging system a power failure detection circuit a power converter or inverter a power status indicator e.g. a light emitting diode LED and any other components associated with the generation management and distribution of power in portable devices.

In some embodiments the mobile device includes modules such as a communication module or set of instructions a contact motion module or set of instructions and a graphics module or set of instructions .

The communication module facilitates communication with other devices over one or more external ports not shown adapted for coupling directly to other devices or indirectly over a network e.g. the Internet wireless LAN etc. . The contact motion module detects slide based or touch based contact with the touch sensitive display . The contact motion module includes various software components for performing various operations related to detection of contact with the touch sensitive display such as determining if contact has occurred determining if there is movement of the contact and tracking the movement across the display and determining if the contact has been broken i.e. if the contact has ceased . Determining movement of the point of contact may include determining speed magnitude velocity magnitude and direction and or an acceleration including magnitude and or direction of the point of contact. In some embodiments the contact motion module also detects contact on the touchpad.

The graphics module may include various known software components for rendering and displaying graphics on the touch sensitive display . In some embodiments the graphics module includes an optical intensity module not shown . The optical intensity module controls the optical intensity of graphical objects such as user interface objects displayed on the touch sensitive display . Controlling the optical intensity may include increasing or decreasing the optical intensity of a graphical object. In some embodiments the increase or decrease may follow predefined functions.

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication modules in certain examples these can also include commerce modules advertising modules and marketplace modules to name a few payment modules and location aware offer modules . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server can access the databases directly without the need for a database server .

The publication modules may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment modules may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment modules may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are advertised or made available via the various publication modules within retail locations or within external online retail venues. The payment modules may also be configured to present or facilitate redemption of offers generated by the location aware offer modules to a user during checkout or prior to checkout while the user is still actively shopping . The payment modules can also be configured to enable check in based payment processing. The location aware offer modules may provide real time location aware offers e.g. coupons or immediate discount deals on targeted products or services to users of the networked system . The location aware offer modules can be configured to use all of the various communication mechanisms provided by the networked system to present offer options to users. The offer options can be personalized based on current location time of day user profile data past purchase history or recent physical or online behaviors recorded by the network based system among other things. While the publication modules payment modules and location aware offer modules are shown in to all form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment modules may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system such as the network based payment service . Additionally in some examples the location aware offer modules may be part of the payment service or may form an offer generation service separate and distinct from the networked system . In some examples the application servers may host other modules that interact with the communication module the contact motion module and the graphics module in the mobile device . In certain examples the network based check in system can include some or all of the application severs .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the embodiments of the present invention are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication modules payment modules and location aware offer modules could also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication modules payment modules and location aware offer modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication modules payment modules and location aware offer modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a smartphone application e.g. the PAYPAL payment application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable users to make various of payments directly from their smartphones.

The modules or other modules and system components described above may in some examples be used or configured partially or entirely either singly or in combination to perform one or more of the methods described herein or as set forth below in the following method steps.

Some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter include methods of finding web hits for patents. One such embodiment is illustrated in . In this example embodiment a method of displaying a product in a touch sensitive display of a hand held electronic device comprises at operation presenting a graphical image representative of the product in the touch sensitive display at operation detecting a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and at operation displaying in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

In some examples the array of swatch images is displayed at least in part along a path corresponding to a direction of the slide based contact. In some examples each of the swatch images conforms substantially in outline to an outline of the graphical image of the product. In some examples the array of swatch images is displayed in fanned configuration along an arcuate or linear path with an uppermost image in the swatch array appearing at least in part immediately subjacent the graphical image of the product.

In some examples of the method the displayed array of swatch images is locked in appearance until detection of at least a further touch or slide based contact with the touch sensitive display. In some further examples the method further comprises at operation presenting in the touch screen display an action element associated with the displayed product and at operation detecting a touch based contact at a second predefined location corresponding to the action element while the array of swatch images is displayed.

Reference is made to of the accompanying drawings. These views generally depict a touch sensitive display or touch screen of a hand held electronic device. A graphical image of a product is visible in the view. In this example the product is a shirt offered for sale in an online ecommerce environment. Other products are possible as set out for example in the definition of a graphical image of a product provided further above. The modules or other modules and system components described above may be used or configured partially or entirely either singly or in combination to provide the functionality described below.

In a user makes a slide based action to swipe across the graphical image to cause the appearance of an array of swatch images positioned next to the graphical image as shown in . The swiping action may follow a generally liner path as shown in or may follow a generally arcuate path as shown in . In some examples the array of swatch images is displayed at least in part along a path corresponding to a direction of the slide based action . A channel or other visual cue may be provided to guide the slide based action to generate the swatch images .

In a slide based action to the right by the user causes the graphical image of the shirt to move to the right in the touch screen while the arrayed display in this example displayed in fanned configuration appears to the left of the graphical image . In some examples when the user releases his her finger from the touch screen the fanned configuration of swatch images collapses and visually retracts back underneath the overlying graphical image of the product. In other examples the displayed array of swatch images is locked in appearance until the user makes a further screen navigation or screen contact. In other examples the fanned swatch images retract automatically after a passage of time.

Each swatch image relates to a different variant of the graphical image of the product. In this example the swatch images relate to different colors of the shirt available for purchase. Other swatch images are possible for example as set out in the definition of a swatch image provided further above. It will be seen that in these illustrations each of the swatch images in the array conforms substantially in outline to the outline of the graphical image of the shirt. In some examples the fanned array of swatch images follows a generally arcuate or linear path with an uppermost image A in the swatch array appearing visually at least in part immediately subjacent the graphical image of the product.

Since the user in some examples is simply swiping across the graphical image of the product to cause a displayed array of swatch images additional touch screen controls or action elements can be provided. Example action elements and are visible in and remain visible and operable even while the slide based action and display of arrayed swatch images is in effect. Action elements can include payment options e.g. the PAYPAL payment application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable users to make various payments directly from their smartphones. Other action elements can include express or quick shop type implementation or add to cart options. Other action elements are possible and will be apparent to persons skilled in the art. The action elements and will typically be operated by a user in making a touch based contact with the touch screen . In some examples slide based and touch based controls are possible for the action elements and and can be provided simultaneously on a single product image.

In some examples the array of swatch images is displayed using a parallax scrolling technique. The parallax scrolling effect is based on a technique that uses multiple background images that move at different yet synchronized speeds as the user swipes across the image. The user typically swipes or scrolls down or horizontally across the touch sensitive screen . The overall effect gives the viewer a seamless and enhanced browsing experience. The background swatch images translate slower than the graphical image content in the foreground creating the illusion of 3D depth.

To further illustrate the subject matter disclosed herein a non limiting list of examples is provided here 

A system for displaying a product in a touch sensitive display of a hand held electronic device the system comprising at least one module executing on one or more computer processors to present a graphical image representative of the product in the touch sensitive display detect a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and display in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

2. The system of statement where the module is further to display the array of swatch images at least in part along a path corresponding to a direction of the slide based contact.

3. The system of statement wherein each of the swatch images conforms substantially in outline to an outline of the graphical image of the product.

4. The system of statement wherein the module is further to display the array of swatch images in fanned configuration along an arcuate or linear path with an uppermost image in the swatch array appearing at least in part immediately subjacent the graphical image of the product.

5. The system of statement wherein the module is further to lock the appearance of the displayed array of swatch images until detection of at least a further touch or slide based contact with the touch sensitive display.

6. The system of statement where the module is further to present in the touch screen display an action element associated with the product offering and detecting a touch based contact at a second predefined location corresponding to the action element while the array of swatch images is displayed.

7. A method of displaying a product in a touch sensitive display of a hand held electronic device the method comprising presenting a graphical image representative of the product in the touch sensitive display detecting a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and displaying in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

8. The method of statement wherein the array of swatch images is displayed at least in part along a path corresponding to a direction of the slide based contact.

9. The method of statement wherein each of the swatch images conforms substantially in outline to an outline of the graphical image of the product.

10. The method of statement wherein the array of swatch images is displayed in fanned configuration along an arcuate or linear path with an uppermost image in the swatch array appearing at least in part immediately subjacent the graphical image of the product.

11. The method of statement wherein the displayed array of swatch images is locked in appearance until detection of at least a further touch or slide based contact with the touch sensitive display.

12. The method of statement further comprising presenting in the touch screen display an action element associated with the displayed product and detecting a touch based contact at a second predefined location corresponding to the action element while the array of swatch images is displayed.

13. A machine readable medium including instructions which when performed by a machine causes the machine to perform the operations of presenting a graphical image representative of a product in a touch sensitive display of a hand held electronic device detecting a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and displaying in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

14. The medium of statement wherein the array of swatch images is displayed at least in part along a path corresponding to a direction of the slide based contact.

15. The medium of statement wherein each of the swatch images conforms substantially in outline to an outline of the graphical image of the product.

16. The medium of statement wherein the array of swatch images is displayed in fanned configuration along an arcuate or linear path with an uppermost image in the swatch array appearing at least in part immediately subjacent the graphical image of the product.

17. The medium of statement wherein the displayed array of swatch images is locked in appearance until detection of at least a further touch or slide based contact with the touch sensitive display.

18. The medium of statement wherein the operations further comprise presenting in the touch screen display an action element associated with the displayed product and detecting a touch based contact at a second predefined location corresponding to the action element while the array of swatch images is displayed.

19. A portable electronic device comprising a touch sensitive display memory one or more modules including processors operable under instructions stored in the memory to display a product offering in the touch sensitive display the instructions including presenting a graphical image representative of the product in the touch sensitive display detecting a slide based contact with the touch sensitive display at or over a first predefined location corresponding to the product image in the display and displaying in response to the detection of the slide based contact an array of swatch images associated with variants of the product in the touch sensitive display.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present inventive subject matter or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the present inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

