---

title: Computer-implemented method and system for managing keyword bidding prices
abstract: A computer-implemented method and system for managing keyword bidding prices are disclosed. An example method comprises: determining revenue parameters associated with a keyword; obtaining automatic bid controls associated with the keyword and the revenue parameters; automatically generating a bid value for the keyword based on the bid controls and the revenue parameters, the automatic bid controls including a gap position target value, the gap position target value representing a position in a gap between a first next higher bid and a second next higher bid, the gap position target value corresponding to a specific monetary value between the first next higher bid and the second next higher bid; and transmitting the bid value to an online service via a data network communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311662&OS=09311662&RS=09311662
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09311662
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150504
---
This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 427 090 and 11 427 097 filed on Jun. 28 2006 and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application.

This patent application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 860 564 filed on Aug. 20 2010 and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application.

This patent application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 243 869 filed on Sep. 23 2011 and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application.

This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 560 744 filed Jul. 27 2012 titled COMPUTER IMPLEMENTED METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MANAGING KEYWORD BIDDING PRICES which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 830 193 filed Jul. 2 2010 which application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 517 886 filed Sep. 8 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 752 190 which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 743 058 filed on Dec. 21 2005 and titled A Computer implemented Method and System for Combining Keywords into Logical Clusters that Share a Similar Behavior with Respect to a Considered Dimension and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application.

U.S. application Ser. No. 11 517 886 filed Sep. 8 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 752 190 also claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 743 059 filed on Dec. 21 2005 and titled A Computer implemented Method and System for Enabling the Automated Selection of Keywords for Rapid Keyword Portfolio Expansion and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application.

U.S. application Ser. No. 11 517 886 filed Sep. 8 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 752 190 also claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 743 060 filed on Dec. 21 2005 and titled A Computer implemented Method and System for Managing Keyword Bidding Prices and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application.

This disclosure relates to methods and systems supporting keyword advertising associated with Internet search engine usage and keyword query submittal by a user. More particularly the present disclosure relates to automated bidding for search keywords.

An increasingly popular way of delivering Internet advertisements is to tie the advertisement to search query results triggered by the entry of particular keywords e.g. search queries by a user. In order to target advertising accurately advertisers or vendors pay to have their advertisements presented in response to certain kinds of queries that is their advertisements are presented when particular keyword combinations are supplied by the user of the search engine.

For example when a user searches for baseball cards using a search engine such as Google or other well known search engines in addition to the usual query results the user will also be shown a number of sponsored results. These will be paid advertisements for businesses generally offering related goods and or services. In this example the advertisements may therefore be directed to such things as baseball card vendors collectibles shops sports memorabilia or even sporting goods or event tickets. Of course the advertisements may be directed to seemingly less related subject matter. While the presentation varies somewhat between search engines these sponsored results are usually shown a few lines above or on the right hand margin of the regular results. Although the sponsored results may also be placed anywhere in conjunction with the regular results.

Keyword advertising is growing as other types of web advertising are generally declining. It is believed there are at least several features that contribute to its success. First sponsored results are piggybacked on regular results so they are delivered in connection with a valuable seemingly objective service to the user. By contrast search engines that are built primarily on sponsored results have not been as popular. Second the precision of the targeting of the advertising means the user is more likely to find the advertisements useful and consequently will perceive the advertisements as more of a part of the service than as an unwanted intrusion. Unlike banners and pop up advertisements which are routinely ignored or dismissed users appear more likely to click through these sponsored results e.g. keyword advertisements . Third the targeting is based entirely on the current query and not on demographic data developed over longer periods of time. This kind of targeting is timelier and more palatable to users with privacy concerns. Fourth these advertisements reach users when they are searching and therefore when they are more open to visiting new web sites.

Companies such as Google of Mountain View Calif. which offers a search engine and Overture of Pasadena Calif. now Yahoo Search which aggregates advertising for search engines as well as offering its own search engine use an auction mechanism combined with a pay per click PPC pricing strategy to sell advertising. This model is appealing in its simplicity. Advertisers bid in auctions for placement of their advertisements in connection with particular keywords or keyword combinations. The amount they bid e.g. cost per click CPC is the amount that they are willing to pay for a click through on their link. For example in one Yahoo Overture PPC pricing strategy if company A bids 1.10 for the keyword combination baseball cards then its advertisement will be placed above a company bidding 0.95 for the same keyword combination. Only a selected number of bidders advertisements will be shown. The simplicity of the model makes it easy for an advertiser to understand why an advertisement is shown and what bid is necessary to have an advertisement shown. It also means that advertisers are charged only for positive click through responses.

Both Google and Overture offer tools to help users identify additional keywords based on an initial set of keywords. The Overture model supplies keywords that actually contain the keyword e.g. for bicycle one can get road bicycle Colonago bicycle etc. . Google on the other hand performs some kind of topic selection which they claim is based on billions of searches.

Both Google and Overture offer tools to help users manage their bids. Google uses click through rate and PPC to estimate an expected rate of return which is then used to dynamically rank the advertisements. Overture uses the PPC pricing strategy to rank advertisements but monitors the click through rate for significantly under performing advertisements.

Because Google dynamically ranks the advertisements based on click through and PPC advertisers cannot control their exact advertisement position with a fixed PPC. To insure a top position the advertiser must be willing to pay a different price that is determined by their own click through rate as well as the competitors click though rates and PPC. Overture uses a fixed price model which insures fixed position for fixed price.

If a set of keywords that have not been selected by any of the advertisers is issued as a search term Google will attempt to find the best matching selected set of keywords and display its associated advertisements. For example let s say a user searches on engagement ring diamond solitaire. However there are no advertisers bidding on this search term. The expanded matching feature will then match based on term title and description selected listings from advertisers that have bid on search terms e.g. keyword combinations like solitaire engagement ring and solitaire diamond ring. 

A number of third parties provide services to Overture customers to identify and select keywords and track and rank bids. For example BidRank Dynamic Keyword Bid Maximizer Epic Sky GoToast PPC BidTracker PPC Pro Send Traffic Sure Hits and Efficient Frontiers. There are a small number of pay per bid systems. For example Kanoodle is a traditional pay per bid system like Overture. Other examples include Sprinks and FindWhat.

The Sprinks brand system ContentSprinks produces listings that rely on context as opposed to one to one matching with a keyword. The user chooses topics rather than keywords. The Sprinks web site asserts Since context is more important than an exact match you can put your offer for golf balls in front of customers who are researching and buying golf clubs and your listing will still be approved even though it s not an exact match. This is a pay per bid model like Overture and has been used by About.com iVillage.com and Forbes.com. The Sprinks brand system KeywordSprinks is a traditional pay per bid model for keywords and phrases.

FindWhat has a BidOptimizer that shows the bids of the top five positions so that a user can set their bid price for a keyword to be at a specific position. BidOptimizer enables the user to set a maximum bid max bid on a keyword and choose the position first second third fourth or fifth the keyword is listed on the network as long as obtaining the chosen position does not exceed the max bid the user has set. If the position the user chooses requires a higher max bid than the amount the user has set BidOptimizer ranks the user s keyword in the next best position possible.

In addition there is a system called Wordtracker for helping users to select keywords. The Wordtracker system at provides a set of tools to help users to identify keywords for better placement of advertisements and web pages in search engines both regular and pay per bid. Wordtracker provides related words with occurrence information misspelled word suggestions based on the number of occurrences of the misspelled words and tools for keeping track of possible keyword key phrase candidates. The related words are more than variants. On the web site an example of related keywords for golf includes pga Ipga golf courses tiger woods golf clubs sports jack nicklaus and titleist as well as phrases that include the term golf such as golf clubs golf courses golf equipment used golf clubs golf tips golf games and vw.golf. Wordtracker displays the bid prices for a keyword on selected pay per bid search engines. It also displays the number of occurrences of search terms by search engine so the keywords can be tuned to each search engine.

Wordtracker can be a useful tool but it does not automate certain aspects of the advertiser s decision making bidding and placement of advertisements. Currently an advertiser must participate in every auction of relevant keywords. In the example above a company offering sporting goods may want its advertisements to be placed with a variety of keywords corresponding to common queries related to sports equipment training events etc. These keywords vary in their relevance to the company s business in their yield of productive click through visits to the company s web site and their cost to the company based on competition in the auctions . The multiplicity of keyword combinations and the multiplicity of considerations for each keyword combination create a number of opportunities for automation support mechanisms for advertisement placement decision making.

In the process of bidding in keyword auctions advertisers may compete in ways that are mutually detrimental. There may be better joint strategies that are less costly or involve alternative keywords but the individual bidders do not easily discover these joint strategies. Even when the individual bidders know good joint strategies the individual bidders may not have a strong incentive to pursue these strategies without some assurance of cooperation.

If the process of selecting and bidding for keyword combinations for an advertiser was automated or more automated it likely that less guidance would be required from the advertiser and that advertisements would be placed on more effective keywords. It is also likely that such automation would help maximize return on advertising investment ROAI increase the number sponsored keywords and maximize click through rates for keyword advertisements.

Several published U.S. patent applications disclose concepts related to bidding for a position of a keyword advertisement in a search results list. For example U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2005 0144064 A1 discloses a method of generating a bid for an advertiser for placement of an advertisement in association with a search results list where the search results list is generated in response to a search query. In one embodiment the method includes a associating the at least one keyword with the bid wherein the search query is associated with the at least one keyword and b determining an amount of the bid associated with the at least one keyword for placement of the advertisement in association with the search results list generated in response to the search query associated with the at least one keyword. The bid is determined based at least in part on bids by other advertisers in competition with the first advertiser for placement of other advertisements with an expectation that the determined bid may elicit a desired change in the bids by the other advertisers.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2005 0144065 A1 discloses a method of coordinating one or more bids for one or more groups of advertisers for placement of at least one advertisement in association with a search results list. The search results list is generated in response to a search query. The method includes a collecting information from at least two advertisers in the advertiser group and b devising a joint strategy for the advertiser group for bidding in the keyword auction. In another embodiment a method of generating a bid for a first advertiser for placement of a first advertisement in association with a search results list is provided. In another embodiment an apparatus for generating the bid for the first advertiser is provided. Is still another embodiment a method of coordinating bids from a first advertiser and a second advertiser for placement of at least one advertisement in association with a first search results list is provided.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2005 0071325 A1 discloses a system wherein the number of ads potentially relevant to search query information may be increased by relaxing the notion of search query keyword matching. This may be done for example by expanding a set of ad request keywords to include both query keywords or derivatives of a root thereof and related keywords. The related keywords may be words with a relatively high co occurrence with a query keyword in a group of previous search queries e.g. search queries in a session . The scores of ads with keyword targeting criteria that matched words related to words in a search query but not the words from the search query may be discounted. That is the scores of ads served pursuant to a relaxed notion of matching may be discounted relative to the scores of ads served pursuant to a stricter notion of matching. This may be done by using a score modification parameter such as an ad performance multiplier for cases in which an ad score is a function of ad performance information . The score modification parameter may be updated to reflect observed performance data such as performance data associated with word to related word mappings.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2005 0137939 A1 discloses a server based method of automatically generating a plurality of bids for an advertiser for placement of at least one advertisement in association with a search results list. The method includes a receiving at least one candidate advertisement b creating a list of candidate keywords c estimating a click through rate for each advertisement keyword pair d calculating a return on advertising investment ROAI for each advertisement keyword pair and e calculating a bid amount for each advertisement keyword pair. In another aspect a server based method of generating a bid for placement of an advertisement in association with a search results list is provided. In other aspects a method of selecting one or more keywords in conjunction with the bid is provided as well as a method of determining a return on advertising investment ROAI information for an advertiser in conjunction with the bid is provided.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2004 0088241 A1 discloses a Keyword Automated Bidding System KABS which among other things provides an intelligent system for bidders for a ranking in web search results list to determine bids and bidding strategies that maximize return on bid investments and help direct allocation of available funds for bids to keywords that lead to more optimal returns. An example embodiment is designed to generate a scalable solution to the problem of selecting the proper set of keywords to bid and the proper values of such bids for thousands of keywords on third party sites such as Overture and Google.com. The scalable solution is generated according to operator defined model constraints and utility functions. In one embodiment KABS maximizes profit by maximizing the Margin Rate to a bidder which is the difference in the aggregate Revenue per Redirect RPR from the merchants and the Cost per Click CPC that must be paid to the traffic source. The prime constraint on this solution is the total CPC dollar amount that is budgeted over a fixed interval of time day week etc. . A major computational subsystem of KABS performs the estimation of arrival or click thru rates for each keyword or category of keywords as a function of their display ranks on the source site. It is the form and level of this estimated function that is critical in the selection of the proper display rank from an active bid table a spider retrieves for each keyword. The KABS operator will be required to provide the inputs that direct and constrain the system s operation. Among these is the comprehensive set of keywords of interest from which the proper subset will be computed. Other key inputs include the frequencies of executing the various KABS from re computing the arrival functions to regeneration of the bid set of keywords along with their corresponding bids and display ranks.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2004 0068460 A1 discloses a method and system enabling advertisers to achieve a desired ordinal position of a web page link in a list of search results generated by a bid for position search engine on the Internet in response to a keyword search. The method involves surveying other bid for position search engines to collect available bid data determining a network high bid amount for a keyword of interest and the desired position and adjusting the advertiser s bid on the keyword to be at least as much as the network high bid amount for that keyword and desired position.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2003 0088525 A1 discloses a method and apparatus information processing system for overcoming deficiencies and inefficiencies in the current paid search engine keyword bidding market by providing keyword bidders with information they need to better optimize their use of paid search engines. The system accumulates bid amounts for a plurality of target keywords at one or more paid Internet search engines and presents the bid amounts to a user enabling the user to evaluate and optimize bids on those keywords. The system also presents bid amounts for a keyword at one or more paid Internet search engines in a manner highlighting one or more selected bid amounts of interest to a potential bidder. This permits a bidder to identify the bidder s own bid and or to identify a differential in bid amounts that indicates an opportunity for bid optimization. The system further monitors keyword bids at one or more paid Internet search engines to identify bid changes of interest to a potential bidder.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2003 0055729 A1 discloses a method and system for allocating display space on a web page. In one embodiment the display space system receives multiple bids each indicating a bid amount and an advertisement. When a request is received to provide a web page that includes the display space the display space system selects a bid based in part on the bid amount. The display space system then adds the advertisement of the selected bid to the web page. The bid may also include various criteria that specify the web pages on which the advertisement may be placed the users to whom the advertisement may be presented and the time when the advertisement may be placed. The bid amount may be a based on an established currency or based on advertising points. The display space system may award advertising points for various activities that users perform. The activities for which advertising points may be awarded may include the listing of an item to be auctioned the bidding on an item being auctioned the purchasing of an item at an auction or the purchasing of an item at a fixed price. The display space system tracks the advertising points that have been allocated to each user. When an advertisement is placed on a web page on behalf of the user the display space system reduces the number of advertising points allocated to that user. The display space system may also provide an auto bidding mechanism that places bids for display space on behalf of the user.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2003 0055816 A1 discloses a pay for placement search system that makes search term recommendations to advertisers managing their accounts in one or more of two ways. A first technique involves looking for good search terms directly on an advertiser s web site. A second technique involves comparing an advertiser to other similar advertisers and recommending the search terms the other advertisers have chosen. The first technique is called spidering and the second technique is called collaborative filtering. In the preferred embodiment the output of the spidering step is used as input to the collaborative filtering step. The final output of search terms from both steps is then interleaved in a natural way.

U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2003 0105677 A1 discloses an automated web ranking system which enables advertisers to dynamically adjust pay per click bids to control advertising costs. The system tracks search terms which are used to market an advertiser s product or services in on line marketing media OMM . The system determines the search term s effectiveness by collecting and analyzing data relating to the number of impressions the number of clicks and the number of resulting sales generated by a search term at a given time period. Based on the data collected and parameters which the advertiser provides relating to the advertiser s economic factors the system calculates a maximum acceptable bid for each search term. The system monitors the web for competitor s bids on an advertiser s search term and places bids which fall below the maximum acceptable bid.

United States Patent Application No. 2005 0223000 discloses a system and method for enabling information providers using a computer network to influence a position for a search listing within a search result list. A database stores accounts for the network information providers. Each account contains contact and billing information. In addition each account contains at least one search listing having at least three components a description a search term comprising one or more keywords and a bid amount. The network information provider may add delete or modify a search listing after logging into his or her account via an authentication process. The network information provider influences a position for a search listing in the provider s account by first selecting a relevant search term and entering that search term and the description into a search listing. A continuous online competitive bidding process occurs when the network information provider enters a new bid amount for a search listing. This bid amount is compared with all other bid amounts for the same search term. A rank value is generated for all search listings having that search term. The generated rank value determines where the network information provider s listing will appear on the search results list page that is generated in response to a query of the search term by a searcher at a client computer on the computer network. A higher bid by a network information provider will result in a higher rank value and a more advantageous placement.

United States Patent Application No. 2005 0065844 discloses a system and method for automating the management of an advertising campaign for a sponsored search application. An advertiser can easily manage their advertising campaign based on a budget and other information that they are most familiar with e.g. the length of time for the campaign desired number of total clicks during the campaign the time zone of the campaign keywords to be bid upon for the sponsored search application the advertisement copy and heading and the URL associated with the location of the advertisement copy. With this relatively basic information provided an example embodiment can automatically manage the bidding on both small and relatively large numbers of keywords for an advertising campaign.

United States Patent Application No. 2004 0230574 discloses a method and system for providing a set of search terms in response to a user input. A first set of search terms is selected from a master set of search terms based upon a match between the input and the search terms or based upon a predefined association between the input and the search terms. A second set of search terms is selected from the first set of search terms in response to a value score that is established for each of the search terms. The value score is selected based at least in part upon the amount of revenue that each search term generates for the system s operator.

United States Patent Application No. 2004 0199496 discloses a presentation system accepts presentations or references to presentations from prospective presenters. Some or all of the presentations or references are stored in a database and referenced by keywords such that presentations to be presented in response to particular searches can be identified. A presentation manager handles accepting bids and settling terms between prospective presenters. The results of such processes might be stored in a presentation details database. A presentation server handles retrieving presentations from the presentation details database for presentation to users along with requests such as search results. Both the presentation manager and the presentation server can operate on a keywords basis wherein presentation terms specify keywords to be associated with particular presentations and the presentation server serves particular presentations based on keywords in a search query for which the presentations are to be returned. The association of keywords can be done using canonicalization so that under certain conditions different keywords are treated as the same keyword. Canonicalizations might include plural singular forms gender forms stem word forms suffix forms prefix forms typographical error forms word order pattern ignoring acronyms stop word elimination etc. Conditions might include aspects of the search query state such as the user s demographics the page from which the search query was initiated etc.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 826 572 describes a system for advertisers to efficiently manage their search listings in placement database search system includes grouping means for managing multiple categories for the search listings and query means for searching search listings. The system further includes quick fill means for modifying an attribute in a plurality of search listings by specifying the modification at a single location. The system provides a method and system for a pay for placement database search system. The method and system include grouping and querying one or more search listings associated with an advertiser and providing the advertisers an ability to simultaneously modify a plurality of search listings. The advertisers also possess means to search the categories and gather statistical data for an entire category.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 704 727 describes a method and system for providing a set of search terms in response to a user input. A first set of search terms is selected from a master set of search terms based upon a match between the input and the search terms or based upon a predefined association between the input and the search terms. A second set of search terms is selected from the first set of search terms in response to a value score that is established for each of the search terms. The value score is selected based at least in part upon the amount of revenue that each search term generates for the system s operator.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 997 discloses a method of generating a search result list and also provides related searches for use by a searcher. Search listings which generate a match with a search request submitted by the searcher are identified in a pay for placement database which includes a plurality of search listings. Related search listings contained in a related search database generated from the pay for placement database are identified as relevant to the search request. A search result list is returned to the searcher including the identified search listings and one or more of the identified search listings.

A computer implemented method and system for managing keyword bidding prices are disclosed. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known processes structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the clarity of this description.

An example embodiment of a computer implemented method and system may manage keyword bidding prices. Initially a host may develop and maintain a portfolio of keywords for which users can bid. In a manner described in detail in the above referenced related patent applications a host can search and select desired keywords for the portfolio and cluster the keywords into logical groups based on a variety of dimensional metrics. A data mining process is used to implement keyword affinity scoring. Clustering combines keywords into logical groups or clusters that share a similar behavior with respect to a considered dimension or creative . A creative can be a template advertisement or message into which a keyword can be inserted. Sources for clustering techniques include 1 ex ante information about a keyword linguistic similarity number of words in the keyword phrase supply side categorization etc. 2 performance metrics costs clicks return on investment ROI NS saturation competitors use of item level metrics etc. 3 internal sources e.g. host search query history host catalogues host listings parsings host affiliate query catalog and listing information international search strings paid search queries etc. and 4 external sources e.g. Googspy Yahoo buzz etc. .

The computer implemented method and system may also determine and use a correlation between different search queries in a single session. The correlation uses information based on the proximity of the different search queries and the subject matter searched in each query. For example if a user submits a first search query e.g. John and then subsequently in the same session submits a second search query e.g. John Smith a correlation can be drawn between those two keywords. This correlation can be used to form reasonable inferences related to the user behavior because two related search queries appeared in sequence.

The performance metrics for a particular keyword or keyword cluster include a calculation of the value of a new user based on keywords. The effective use of advertising or messaging as related to keyword search queries enables the host to attract new users as a result of keyword based advertising. The effectiveness of a particular keyword or keyword cluster to attract new users is a key performance metric. One measure of this effectiveness is a Revenue per Click RPC scoring. If a particular keyword or keyword cluster and a related advertisement or message causes a user to click a link or icon a certain value for that click through action can be calculated using RPC scoring. RPC scoring is based on a predicted value for a given keyword. The keyword scoring concept includes calculating the value of a new user brought in by a specific keyword or keyword cluster. In an example embodiment as described below additional data can be used to actually project a value forward in time. For example a particular click through might be worth 10 a click yesterday. However there may be strong evidence the click through is going to be worth 12 a click tomorrow because of certain consumer variables that were observed e.g. the volume of related listings may have skyrocketed conversion rates may be skyrocketing and ASPs are staying flat . Conversion is the act of a user clicking responding or otherwise taking action related to an advertisement or message. These consumer variables suggest that the keyword is going to be worth more tomorrow and into the future. In the example computer implemented method and system this forward looking analysis is done with the use of data mining and statistical analysis.

Revenue Per Click RPC prediction is one building block for keyword scoring and value prediction. For this reason it is desirable that the model be as accurate as possible. At its core the example RPC prediction process described herein is a statistical approach to ascribing the likely future revenue for a given click for a given keyword. There can be a large number of potential inputs to this RPC prediction including past revenue and past click volumes COFA Category of First Activity for users who have converted on a given word or the Bid Density by Category for a keyword historically. In the end a large number of x variables can be used as inputs to the model while only a few inputs may actually be part of the calculation. However because the relative weighting of the various variables and even the variables themselves is likely to change over time the example computer implemented method and system provide an extensible and flexible approach towards the RPC calculations.

To best use the example RPC model the input data to the RPC model may be updated on a periodic basis thus incorporating the newest information. This periodic update can be implemented by interfacing the RPC model with the Keyword Selection Module and the Keyword Datamart KWDM described in related patent applications referenced above. The efficiency of the RPC model can also be improved if the RPC model receives warning alerts as soon as possible if there is a problem with the periodic retrieval of RPC model input data.

One theme of the RPC modeling is global scalability which includes international country specific models using the same methodology as has been implemented for the RPC model in the US. This implies that the RPC model may be based on readily available data sources in every country. Country specific RPC models are implemented for individual countries and for individual search engines to improve the regional accuracy of the RPC modeling.

As part of the periodic e.g. daily input data gathering process the RPC Predictive Model may pull in keyword user category data from various internal and external sources that have been identified as potential predictors of a host s keywords RPC and number of clicks. Various sources for this keyword data originate as described in the above referenced related patent application. Specifically the keyword data can originate through the Keyword Testing Complex.

The Keyword Testing Complex is a shorthand name for the sourcing selecting adding reporting and deleting keywords cycle. The principal aim of this functionality as described in detail below is to facilitate the adding of good keywords and deleting of bad ones provide control and reporting so users can easily run tests to determine the heuristics that matter in keyword selection and retention and enable the automation of as much of the keyword testing selection and retention cycle as possible.

Referring to a diagram illustrates the main components of the keyword test complex according to an example embodiment. The keyword test complex includes a keyword datamart a keyword selection module and a keyword pruning module . The keyword data mart includes a sourcing module a pre aggregation scrubber an aggregator and keyword storage . The components of one embodiment of keyword datamart are described in detail below.

The Keyword Sourcing Module regularly pulls in keyword data from various internal and external sources that have been identified as potential sources of potentially revenue generating keywords. Because each data source may have different dimensions and attributes a generic and extensible data model is required. It is unlikely that many configurations settings or controls may be required to support keyword sourcing. A user of the technology described herein denoted as a host can use the Keyword Sourcing Module to collect an initial unfiltered set of keywords from various sources. The following are some examples of important keyword sources that can be used. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other sources of keywords can similarly be used. Also note that there may likely be additional keyword sources that are important to various companies organizations countries or regions.

As related to RPC modeling keyword data can be sourced using the Keyword Testing Complex and the Sourcing Module . In addition other keyword data sources include the following.

Keywords in the KWDM may contain various levels of dimension data. For example 1 global dimensions e.g. linguistic dimensions 2 traffic dimensions internal and external data 3 clustering dimensions and 4 source specific metrics. These dimensions are described in more detail below. Because many of these dimensions change from day to day the aggregator defines a time period of measurement for each metric. It may not be necessary to repopulate all of these metrics every day for every keyword. A weekly monthly or quarterly refresh may be sufficient in some cases. A mechanism to track the source and number of occurrences per source by keyword is also a desired feature. As examples of dimensions non exhaustive 

Referring to an example of the metrics processed by aggregator is illustrated. Because many of these statistics change from day to day the aggregator documents from what period of time the statistic is taken. It may not be necessary to repopulate all of these statistics every day. A monthly or quarterly refresh may be sufficient. For statistics involving the actual cost and revenue for the trafficked word for the host the aggregator incorporates new data with the old data. If a keyword comes in more than once from the same source the aggregator can increment the number in the appropriate source column. If the keyword is seen from a new source the aggregator increments the relevant source column.

The Keyword Selection Module is shown in . In one embodiment there are two ways to select keywords to be added manually and automatically.

The computer implemented method and system for managing keyword bidding prices disclosed herein provide a set of data driven controls that allow users to manage keyword bidding prices at the keyword level and at a large scale. The computer implemented method and system include a rules engine to manage the spend associated with purchasing and managing a keyword portfolio. The data driven controls include controls to manage spend and high volume. A few of the features of an example embodiment include the following 

CPC Bid Optimization of example embodiments described herein is an element to trafficking keywords and ensuring a host is maximizing its return on investment ROI on each keyword purchase. Because different search engines have different interfaces policies and rules associated with keywords and paid search opportunities an automated bid optimization system may have to take these search engine specific differences into account. Below are example considerations for search engine specific bidding methodologies e.g. Google and Yahoo Overture . Based on each search engine s current bidding methodology specific business rules and a customized RPC Predictive Model has been created as part of the computer implemented method and system described herein that will enable more efficient CPC bid optimization.

Based on the current Control determine the Scaled RPC for a keyword. Then use the Competitor s Bid Landscape to find the competitors bid closest to our Scaled RPC. Closeness is defined as abs Scaled RPC Competitor s Bid Deviation Scale Up Down Factor depending on if the Competitor s Bid is above of below our Scaled RPC . Having identified the closest bid we now bid to beat that competitor s bid. In order to beat the competitor s bid we need to know what the gap is between that competitor and the next highest competitor. Once we know what the gap is then we bid at a position within the gap as defined by Control Gap Position Target . For example if our Gap Position Target is 50 and there is a 10 cent gap between our closest competitor s bid and the next higher competitor s bid we would bid 5 cents higher than our closest competitor s bid.

The RPC is a desired bid value the advertiser is willing to pay. Clearly the advertiser seeks to optimize the RPC so the lowest value is paid while retaining an acceptable level of user click throughs. The current position corresponds to a location on a search results page relative to the position of other advertiser s competitors on the same page in relation to the same keyword. Typically a search engine will position a highest bidder s advertisement at the top or in the position most likely to attract user click throughs of the search results page. The next highest bidder s advertisement is positioned just below the highest bidder s advertisement. This ranking continues until there is no space left on the search results page or the number of advertisements exceeds a search engine s maximum. In this manner the search engine s advertisement placement corresponds to keyword bid values and the corresponding number of expected user click throughs. As is well known a search engine is paid the bid value by the advertiser for each user click through.

For example take the keyword example maple wood . The bid landscape tells us that we are currently paying 0.27 for position . Position places us in position a better position than position in terms of the number of expected user click throughs with a maximum bid of 0.27 and the deviation of 0.03 from our scaled RPC of 0.25. Position places us in position a better position than position in terms of the number of expected user click throughs with a maximum bid of 0.28 and the deviation of 0.04 from our scaled RPC.

Using the bidding logic shown above determine the bid to beat. From there the minimum deviation is selected from the four surrounding positions. Once the optimal gap is determined a new maximum CPC is determined based on the process described above. There are two special cases that are also handled by the process detailed herein. Specifically if the new bid puts us in the first position there is no gap as there is no next higher competitor s bid. In this case we bid 1 cent more than the next lower competitor position. Similarly if there are no bidders in the bid landscape we can bid the minimum. See for an example of the parameters generated as a result of the process described above for a sample Yahoo Overture bidding strategy.

Using the process described above parameters are generated for a sample Yahoo Overture bidding strategy. These parameters can be used to create the XML syntax to make the appropriate CPC changes through the API.

Based on a current scaled RPC revenue per click value use the previous day s CPCand previous day s keyword level data to calculate 

For example take the keyword example longaberger pottery and the corresponding sample parameters below.

Based on the bidding logic above since A n a and previous day s CPC 1.5 is true then CPC min previous day s CPC min 0.85 0.77 0.77

Using the process described above parameters are generated for a sample Google bidding strategy. These parameters including the new CPC can be used to execute the corresponding bid changes through Google s API.

Variations of the bidding processes described above can be used to support other search engines. Further a generic version of the bidding optimizer described herein can output or export a flat file for manual loading on other platforms. In addition variations of the bidding processes described above can include time of day hour optimization and demographic targeting.

The Match Type Automation functionality provided in the computer implemented method and system described herein enables a host to automate the decision making process as to which keywords to buy on the different Match Types offered by the conventional search engines e.g. Advanced Standard match types on Overture and Broad Phrase Exact match types on Google .

In particular the functionality of the present computer implemented method and system automates the decision making related to 

In addition the functionality of the present computer implemented method and system also provides additional functionality. When submitting keywords to buy on a search engine the user can specify the desired Match Type. The user can check the Match Type status of any keyword list of keywords or keyword cluster at any time. The user can also manually change the Match Type status of any keyword list of keywords or keyword cluster at any time. When an embodiment is about to switch some existing keywords from an Advanced match type to a Standard match type the embodiment generates a report specifying the list of keywords that have been recommended to be switched over to Standard Match. The embodiment advises the user of the recommended changes prior to trafficking the changes. An example embodiment also allows the user to switch from Advanced to Standard match type automatically on a periodic basis e.g. monthly . Alternatively the match type switching can be configured to occur only after being accepted by the user in the event the user wishes to review the recommended list of words first. This would enable the ability to override recommendations.

Some conventional keyword processing systems store even the slightest differences in user queries as distinct queries records. For example two phrases may have the same keywords but one may have an additional space in the keyword string. Conventional systems create distinct records for these keyword variations even though these variations would be considered the same keyword in some conventional search engines e.g. Overture s Match Driver Logic thus triggering the display of the same advertisements. Thus it is beneficial to be able to mimic the Match Driver Logic of a particular search engine to the extent possible. The following pre processing actions can be implemented to increase the likelihood that the keyword processing will mimic the operation of the Match Driver Logic of a particular search engine.

The following actions can be used in various embodiments to process user queries and related keywords for various conventional search engines.

Referring to processing continues at the bubble A. In decision block an initial check is made to determine if we have received impressions. If not a check is made to determine if a time delay has lapsed since the last CPC change decision block . If not no change to the bid is made block . If the time delay has lapsed since the last CPC change the bid is increased by a predetermined increment of x block . In decision block a check is made to determine if we have received clicks. If not a check is made to determine if a time delay has lapsed since the last CPC change decision block . If not no change to the bid is made block . If the time delay has lapsed since the last CPC change the bid is increased by a predetermined increment of x block . Processing continues at the bubble B shown in .

Referring to processing continues at the bubble B. In decision block an initial check is made to determine if the average CPC value is equal to the current scaled RPC value. If so no change to the bid is necessary as the spending exactly equals the target block . In decision block a check is made to determine if the average CPC value is less than the old scaled RPC value. If so a check is made to determine if the average position is less than the desired position decision block . If so no change to the bid is necessary as the position is exactly what we want block . If the average position is not less than the desired position decision block the bid is increased in block . If the average CPC value is not less than the old scaled RPC value decision block the bid is decreased in block . Processing for the example embodiment terminates at the End bubble.

Referring now to a diagram illustrates the network environment in which an example embodiment may operate. In this conventional network architecture a server computer system is coupled to a wide area network . Wide area network includes the Internet or other proprietary networks which are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Wide area network may include conventional network backbones long haul telephone lines Internet service providers various levels of network routers and other conventional means for routing data between computers. Using conventional network protocols server may communicate through wide area network to a plurality of client computer systems connected through wide area network in various ways. For example client is connected directly to wide area network through direct or dial up telephone or other network transmission line. Alternatively clients may be connected through wide area network using a modem pool . A conventional modem pool allows a plurality of client systems to connect with a smaller set of modems in modem pool for connection through wide area network . In another alternative network topology wide area network is connected to a gateway computer . Gateway computer is used to route data to clients through a local area network LAN . In this manner clients can communicate with each other through local area network or with server through gateway and wide area network .

Using one of a variety of network connection means server computer can communicate with client computers using conventional means. In a particular implementation of this network configuration a server computer may operate as a web server if the Internet s World Wide Web WWW is used for wide area network . Using the HTTP protocol and the HTML coding language across wide area network web server may communicate across the World Wide Web with clients . In this configuration clients use a client application program known as a web browser such as the Internet Explorer published by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the user interface of America On Line or the web browser or HTML renderer of any other supplier. Using such conventional browsers and the World Wide Web clients may access image graphical and textual data provided by web server or they may run Web application software. Conventional means exist by which clients may supply information to web server through the World Wide Web and the web server may return processed data to clients .

Having briefly described one embodiment of the network environment in which an example embodiment may operate show an example of a computer system illustrating an exemplary client or server computer system in which the features of an example embodiment may be implemented. Computer system is comprised of a bus or other communications means and for communicating information and a processing means such as processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system further comprises a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device commonly referred to as main memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Computer system also comprises a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

An optional data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk and its corresponding drive may also be coupled to computer system for storing information and instructions. Computer system can also be coupled via bus to a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. For example image textual video or graphical depictions of information may be presented to the user on display device . Typically an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and or command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control device such as a conventional mouse trackball or other type of cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selection to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display .

Alternatively the client can be implemented as a network computer or thin client device. Client may also be a laptop or palm top computing device such as the Palm Pilot . Client could also be implemented in a robust cellular telephone where such devices are currently being used with Internet micro browsers. Such a network computer or thin client device does not necessarily include all of the devices and features of the above described exemplary computer system however the functionality of an example embodiment or a subset thereof may nevertheless be implemented with such devices.

A communication device is also coupled to bus for accessing remote computers or servers such as web server or other servers via the Internet for example. The communication device may include a modem a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for interfacing with Ethernet Token ring or other types of networks. In any event in this manner the computer system may be coupled to a number of servers via a conventional network infrastructure such as the infrastructure illustrated in and described above.

The system of an example embodiment includes software information processing hardware and various processing steps which will be described below. The features and process steps of example embodiments may be embodied in machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of an example embodiment. Alternatively the features or steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments are described with reference to the Internet the method and apparatus described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications systems.

Various embodiments are described. In particular the use of embodiments with various types and formats of user interface presentations may be described. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative embodiments of the implementations described herein can be employed and still fall within the scope of the claimed invention. In the detail herein various embodiments are described as implemented in computer implemented processing logic denoted sometimes herein as the Software . As described above however the claimed invention is not limited to a purely software implementation.

Thus a computer implemented method and system for managing keyword bidding prices are disclosed. While the present invention has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

