---

title: Substituted pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidines as LRRK2 inhibitors
abstract: 

wherein R, R, R, Rand Rare as defined in the specification. The invention is also directed to pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds of formula I and to use of the compounds in the treatment of diseases associated with LRRK2, such as neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease, cancer, Crohn's disease or leprosy.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642855&OS=09642855&RS=09642855
owner: Pfizer Inc.
number: 09642855
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150831
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 928 696 filed Jun. 27 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 820 828 filed on May 8 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 666 299 filed on Jun. 29 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to small molecule inhibitors of leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 . This invention also relates to methods of inhibiting in mammals including humans LRRK2 by administration of the small molecule LRRK2 inhibitors. The present invention also relates to the treatment of Parkinson s Disease PD and other neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders in mammals including humans with the LRRK2 inhibitors. More particularly this invention relates to 4 substituted amino 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compounds useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders such as PD Alzheimer s Disease AD and other LRRK2 associated disorders.

LRRK2 is a 286 kDa active protein kinase in the ROCO protein family with a complex multidomain structure and which has structural homology to the MAP kinase kinase kinases MAPKKK . LRRK2 has been shown to phosphorylate moeisin at Thr ezrin and radixin in vitro. LRRK2 has been found in various regions of the brain as well as in the heart lung spleen and kidney. Independent domains that have been established for the LRRK2 protein include an ankyrin like ANK domain a leucine rich repeat LRR domain a Ras renin angiotensin system of complex ROC domain a C terminal of ROC COR domain a kinase Kinase domain and a C terminal WD40 domain. The ROC domain binds guanosine triphosphate GTP and the COR domain may be a regulator of the ROC domain s GTPase activity.

With multiple domains and both active kinase and guanosine triphosphatase GTPase activity LRRK2 appears to play a complex role in multiple cellular processes. For example LRRK2 has been associated with NFAT inhibition in the immune system and has been linked to vesicle trafficking presynaptic homeostasis mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR signaling signaling through the receptor tyrosine kinase MET in papillary renal and thyroid carcinomas cytoskeletal dynamics the mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK pathway the tumor necrosis factor TNF pathway the Wnt pathway and autophagy. Recent genome wide association GWA genetic studies have implicated LRRK2 in the pathogenesis of various human diseases such as PD inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease cancer and leprosy Lewis P. A. and Manzoni C. Science Signaling 2012 5 207 pe2 .

Parkinson s Disease is a relatively common age related neurodegenerative disorder resulting from the progressive loss of dopamine producing neurons and which affects up to 4 of the population over 80. PD is characterized by both motoric and non motoric symptoms such as tremor at rest rigidity akinesia and postural instability as well as non motor symptoms such as impairment of cognition sleep and sense of smell. Genome wide association studies have linked LRRK2 to PD and many patients with point mutations in LRRK2 present symptoms that are indistinguishable from those with idiopathic PD. Over 20 LRRK2 mutations have been associated with autosomal dominant parkinsonism and the R1441C R1441G R1441H Y1699C G2019S I2020T and N1437H missense mutations are considered to be pathogenic. The LRRK2 R1441G mutation has been shown to increase the release of proinflammatory cytokines higher levels of TNF IL 10 IL 12 and lower levels of IL 10 in microglial cells from transgenic mice and thus may result in direct toxicity to neurons Gillardon F. et al. Neuroscience 2012 208 41 48 . In a murine model of neuroinflammation induction of LRRK2 in microglia was observed and inhibition of LRRK2 kinase activity with small molecule LRRK2 inhibitors LRRK2 IN 1 or sunitinib or LRRK2 knockout resulted in attenuation of TNF secretion and nitric oxide synthase iNOS induction Moehle M. et al. J. Neurosci. 2012 32 5 1602 1611 . The most common of the LRRK2 mutations G2019S is present in more than 85 of PD patients carrying LRRK2 mutations. This mutation which is present in the LRRK2 kinase domain leads to an enhancement of LRRK2 kinase activity. In the human brain LRRK2 expression is highest in the same regions of the brain that are impacted by PD and LRRK2 is found in Lewy Bodies a hallmark of PD. Recent studies indicate that a potent selective brain penetrant kinase inhibitor for LRRK2 could be a therapeutic treatment for PD.

Dementia results from a wide variety of distinctive pathological processes. The most common pathological processes causing dementia are AD cerebral amyloid angiopathy CM and prion mediated diseases see e.g. Haan et al. Clin. Neurol. Neurosurg. 1990 92 4 305 310 Glenner et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 1989 94 1 28 . AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction. AD affects nearly half of all people past the age of 85 the most rapidly growing portion of the United States population. As such the number of AD patients in the United States is expected to increase from about 4 million to about 14 million by 2050. LRRK2 mutations have been associated with AD like pathology which suggests that there may be a partial overlap between the neurodegenerative pathways in both AD and PD Zimprach A. et al. Neuron 2004 44 601 607 . In addition the LRRK2 R1628P variant COR domain has been associated with an increased incidence of AD in a certain population perhaps resulting from increased apoptosis and cell death Zhao Y. et al. Neurobiology of Aging 2011 32 1990 1993.

An increased incidence of certain non skin cancers such as renal breast lung and prostate cancers as well as acute myelogenous leukemia AML has been reported in Parkinson s disease patients with the LRRK2 G2019S mutation Saunders Pullman R. et al. Movement Disorders 2010 25 15 2536 2541 . Since the G2019S mutation is associated with increased LRRK2 kinase activity inhibition of this activity may be useful in the treatment of cancer such as kidney breast lung prostate and blood cancers.

Inflammatory bowel disease IBD or Crohn s disease CD is a complex disease and is believed to result from an inappropriate immune response to microbiota in the intestinal tract. Genome wide association studies have recently identified LRRK2 as a major susceptibility gene for Crohn s disease particularly the M2397T polymorphism in the WD40 domain Liu Z. et al. Nat. Immunol. 2011 12 1063 1070 . In a recent study LRRK2 deficient mice were found to be more susceptible to dextran sodium sulfate induced colitis than their wild type counterparts indicating that LRRK2 may play a role in the pathogenesis of IBD Liu Z. and Lenardo M. Cell Research 2012 1 3 .

Both non selective and selective small molecule compounds with LRRK2 inhibitory activity such as staurosporine sunitinib LRRK2 IN 1 CZC 25146 TAE684 and those in WO 2011 141756 WO 2012 028629 and WO 2012 058193 have been described. It is desirable to provide compounds which are potent and selective inhibitors of LRRK2 with a favorable pharmacokinetic profile and the ability to traverse the blood brain barrier. Accordingly the present invention is directed to novel 4 substituted amino 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compounds with LRRK2 inhibitory activity and the use of these compounds in the treatment of diseases associated with LRRK2 such as neurodegenerative diseases including PD.

A second embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rare each hydrogen or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

A third embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached are azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl piperidin 1 yl morpholin 4 yl thiomorpholin 4 yl 6 oxa 3 aza bicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 yl 

A fourth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the third embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached are piperidin 1 yl or morpholin 4 yl each optionally substituted with a hydroxy methyl or 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

A fifth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached are morpholin 4 yl optionally substituted with a methyl or 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

A sixth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached are methylamino dimethylamino diethylamino N methylcyclopropylamino or pyrazolylamino each of which is optionally substituted with one to three R or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

An seventh embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the third embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris phenyl substituted with one or two R and each Ris independently selected from cyano fluoro chloro or methoxy or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

An eighth embodiment of a first aspect the present invention is the compound of the third embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris pyrazolyl isothiazolyl or pyridinyl each optionally substituted with one R and Ris cyano or methyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

A ninth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached is selected from the group consisting of 

A tenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the ninth embodiment wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached are a group selected from 

An eleventh embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the tenth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached is

A twelfth embodiment of a aspect of the present invention is the compound of the eleventh embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris 3 cyanophenyl 1 methylpyrazol 4 yl or 5 cyano 1 methylpyrrol 3 yl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

A thirteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of a first aspect wherein Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached are piperidinyl or 3 hydroxypiperidinyl Ris 1 methylpyrazol 4 yl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 2 cyanopyridin 6 yl 3 methyl 1 2 thiazol 5 yl 3 methylpyridin 5 yl 3 cyanophenyl 2 fluorophenyl 3 fluorophenyl 2 3 difluorophenyl 2 fluoro 5 chlorophenyl 2 fluoro 3 cyanophenyl or 2 methoxy 5 fluorophenyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen or methyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

A fourteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the invention is a compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A fifteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is a compound of the first embodiment of a first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A sixteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A first embodiment of a second aspect of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through sixteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A first embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of treating Parkinson s disease in a patient the method comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof according to any one of the first through sixteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the invention.

Another aspect of the present invention is the compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof according to any one of the first through sixteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the invention for use in the treatment of Parkinson s disease.

Another aspect of the present invention is the use of any of the preceding compounds of formula I and their compositions for inhibiting LRRK2 kinase. In a further embodiment the compounds of formula I or compositions thereof are useful for treating a neurodegenerative disease. In yet another embodiment the neurodegenerative disease is Parkinson s Disease.

Accordingly the invention is also directed to methods of treating a patient preferably a human for diseases in which the LRRK2 kinase is involved such as Parkinson s Disease by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of the embodiments of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention is also directed to methods of inhibiting LRRK2 kinase activity by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a mammal or a patient in need thereof. The invention is also directed to methods of treating disorders responsive to the inhibition of LRRK2 kinase activity such as neurological disorders particularly Parkinson s disease certain cancers and certain immunological disorders such as Crohn s disease and leprosy by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a mammal or a patient in need thereof.

The invention is also directed to methods for treating conditions or diseases of the central nervous system and neurological disorders in which the LRRK2 kinase is involved particularly Parkinson s disease but also including other neurological diseases which may include migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease brain injury stroke cerebrovascular diseases including cerebral arteriosclerosis cerebral amyloid angiopathy hereditary cerebral hemorrhage and brain hypoxia ischemia cognitive disorders including amnesia senile dementia HIV associated dementia Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease Lewy body dementia vascular dementia drug related dementia tardive dyskinesia myoclonus dystonia delirium Pick s disease Creutzfeldt Jacob disease HIV disease Gilles de la Tourette s syndrome epilepsy muscular spasms and disorders associated with muscular spasticity or weakness including tremors and mild cognitive impairment mental deficiency including spasticity Down syndrome and fragile X syndrome sleep disorders including hypersomnia circadian rhythm sleep disorder insomnia parasomnia and sleep deprivation and psychiatric disorders such as anxiety including acute stress disorder generalized anxiety disorder social anxiety disorder panic disorder post traumatic stress disorder agoraphobia and obsessive compulsive disorder factitious disorder including acute hallucinatory mania impulse control disorders including compulsive gambling and intermittent explosive disorder mood disorders including bipolar I disorder bipolar II disorder mania mixed affective state major depression chronic depression seasonal depression psychotic depression seasonal depression premenstrual syndrome PMS premenstrual dysphoric disorder PDD and postpartum depression psychomotor disorder psychotic disorders including schizophrenia schizoaffective disorder schizophreniform and delusional disorder drug dependence including narcotic dependence alcoholism amphetamine dependence cocaine addiction nicotine dependence and drug withdrawal syndrome eating disorders including anorexia bulimia binge eating disorder hyperphagia obesity compulsive eating disorders and pagophagia sexual dysfunction disorders urinary incontinence neuronal damage disorders including ocular damage retinopathy or macular degeneration of the eye tinnitus hearing impairment and loss and brain edema and pediatric psychiatric disorders including attention deficit disorder attention deficit hyperactive disorder conduct disorder and autism in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The text revision of the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM IV TR 2000 American Psychiatric Association Washington D.C. provides a diagnostic tool for identifying many of the disorders described herein. The skilled artisan will recognize that there are alternative nomenclatures nosologies and classification systems for disorders described herein including those as described in the DMS IV TR and that terminology and classification systems evolve with medical scientific progress.

Preferred methods are for treating a neurological disorder most preferably Parkinson s disease but also other neurological disorders such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Niemann Pick type C brain injury stroke cerebrovascular disease cognitive disorder sleep disorder or a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety factitious disorder impulse control disorder mood disorder psychomotor disorder psychotic disorder drug dependence eating disorder and pediatric psychiatric disorder in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In addition the compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may also be employed in methods of treating other disorders associated with LRRK2 such as Crohn s disease leprosy and certain cancers such as kidney breast lung prostate lung and blood cancer.

Also provided herein are compositions comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle carrier or excipient.

The present invention is also directed to the use of a combination of a LRRK2 inhibitor compound of formula I and one or more additional pharmaceutically active agent s .

Other features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from this specification and the appendent claims which describe the invention.

The term alkyl refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen in one embodiment from one to six carbon atoms i.e. C Calkyl in another embodiment from one to three carbon atoms i.e. C Calkyl . Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl including n propyl and isopropyl butyl including n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl pentyl isoamyl hexyl and the like.

The term alkoxy refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen which is in turn attached to an oxygen atom in one embodiment from one to six carbon atoms i.e. C Calkoxy in another embodiment from one to three carbon atoms i.e. C Calkoxy . Examples of such substituents include methoxy ethoxy propoxy including n propoxy and isopropoxy butoxy including n butoxy isobutoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy pentoxy and the like.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a carbocyclic substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated carbocyclic molecule and having the specified number of carbon atoms. In one embodiment a cycloalkyl substituent has three to seven carbon atoms i.e. C Ccycloalkyl . Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl. The term cycloalkyl includes mono bi and tricyclic saturated carbocycles as well as bridged and fused ring carbocycles as well as spiro fused ring systems.

In some instances the number of atoms in a cyclic substituent containing one or more heteroatoms i.e. heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix x to y membered wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of atoms forming the cyclic moiety of the substituent. The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated or partially saturated ring structure containing the specified number of ring atoms wherein at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. If the heterocycloalkyl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom as appropriate. As used herein the term heterocycloalkyl as used herein refers to a monocyclic ring system containing the heteroatoms N O or S as specified. Thus for example four to seven membered heterocycloalkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl containing from 4 to 7 atoms including one or more heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heterocycloalkyl. The term heterobicycloalkyl as used herein refers to a non spiro bicyclic ring system containing the heteroatoms N O or S as specified. Thus for example six to twelve membered heterobicycloalkyl refers to a heterobicycloalkyl containing from 6 to 12 atoms including one or more heteroatoms in the cyclic moieties of the heterobicycloalkyl. The term heterospirocycloalkyl as used herein refers to a spirocyclic ring system containing the heteroatoms N O or S as specified. For example six to twelve membered heterospirocycloalkyl means a six to twelve membered spirocyclic ring system which contains at least one heteroatom as specified.

The term hydroxy or hydroxyl refers to OH. Compounds bearing a carbon to which one or more hydroxy substituents are attached include for example alcohols enols and phenol.

The term halo or halogen refers to fluoro which may be depicted as F chloro which may be depicted as Cl bromo which may be depicted as Br or iodo which may be depicted as I .

The term heteroaryl refers to an aromatic ring structure containing the specified number of ring atoms in which at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. A five to six membered heteroaryl is an aromatic ring system which has five or six ring atoms with at least one of the ring atoms being N O or S. Similarly a five to ten membered heteroaryl is an aromatic ring system which has five to ten ring atoms with at least one of the ring atoms being N O or S. A heteroaryl may be a single ring or 2 fused rings. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered ring substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl and pyridazinyl 5 membered ring substituents such as triazolyl imidazolyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl 6 5 membered fused ring substituents such as benzothiofuranyl isobenzothiofuranyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl and anthranilyl and 6 6 membered fused rings such as quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl quinazolinyl and 1 4 benzoxazinyl. In a group that has a heteroaryl substituent the ring atom of the heteroaryl substituent that is bound to the group may be the at least one heteroatom or it may be a ring carbon atom where the ring carbon atom may be in the same ring as the at least one heteroatom or where the ring carbon atom may be in a different ring from the at least one heteroatom. Similarly if the heteroaryl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to the at least one heteroatom or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom where the ring carbon atom may be in the same ring as the at least one heteroatom or where the ring carbon atom may be in a different ring from the at least one heteroatom. The term heteroaryl also includes pyridyl N oxides and groups containing a pyridine N oxide ring.

Examples of single ring heterocycloalkyls include azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl dihydropyranyl piperidinyl morpholinyl piperazinyl azepinyl oxepinyl thiepinyl and diazepinyl.

Examples of 2 fused ring heteroaryls include indolizinyl pyranopyrrolyl 4H quinolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl pyridopyridinyl including pyrido 3 4 b pyridinyl pyrido 3 2 b pyridinyl or pyrido 4 3 b pyridinyl and pteridinyl indolyl isoindolyl indoleninyl isoindazolyl benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl benzothiopyranyl benzoxazolyl indoxazinyl anthranilyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxanyl benzoxadiazolyl benzofuranyl isobenzofuranyl benzothienyl isobenzothienyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzimidazolyl benzotriazolyl benzoxazinyl benzisoxazinyl pyrrolopyridinyl pyrazolopyridinyl and imidazothiazolyl.

Other examples of fused ring heteroaryls include benzo fused heteroaryls such as indolyl isoindolyl indoleninyl isoindazolyl benzazinyl including quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl including cinnolinyl or quinazolinyl .

The foregoing groups as derived from the groups listed above may be C attached or N attached where such is possible. For instance a group derived from pyrrole may be pyrrol 1 yl N attached or pyrrol 3 yl C attached . Further a group derived from imidazole may be imidazol 1 yl N attached or imidazol 2 yl C attached .

If substituents are described as being independently selected from a group each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other. Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

As used herein the term formula I or Formula I may be referred to as a compound s of the invention. Such terms are also defined to include all forms of the compound of formula I including hydrates solvates isomers crystalline and non crystalline forms isomorphs polymorphs and metabolites thereof. For example the compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may exist in unsolvated and solvated forms. When the solvent or water is tightly bound the complex will have a well defined stoichiometry independent of humidity. When however the solvent or water is weakly bound as in channel solvates and hygroscopic compounds the water solvent content will be dependent on humidity and drying conditions. In such cases non stoichiometry will be the norm.

The compounds of the invention may exist as clathrates or other complexes. Included within the scope of the invention are complexes such as clathrates drug host inclusion complexes wherein the drug and host are present in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. Also included are complexes of the compounds of the invention containing two or more organic and or inorganic components which may be in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. The resulting complexes may be ionized partially ionized or non ionized. For a review of such complexes see J. Pharm. Sci. 64 8 1269 1288 by Haleblian August 1975 .

The compounds of the invention may have asymmetric carbon atoms. The carbon carbon bonds of the compounds of the invention may be depicted herein using a solid line a solid wedge or a dotted wedge . The use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers e.g. specific enantiomers racemic mixtures etc. at that carbon atom are included. The use of either a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that only the stereoisomer shown is meant to be included. It is possible that compounds of Formula I may contain more than one asymmetric carbon atom. In those compounds the use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers are meant to be included. For example unless stated otherwise it is intended that the compounds of Formula I can exist as enantiomers and diastereomers or as racemates and mixtures thereof. The use of a solid line to depict bonds to one or more asymmetric carbon atoms in a compound of Formula I and the use of a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to other asymmetric carbon atoms in the same compound is meant to indicate that a mixture of diastereomers is present.

Stereoisomers of Formula I include cis and trans isomers optical isomers such as R and S enantiomers diastereomers geometric isomers rotational isomers conformational isomers and tautomers of the compounds of the invention including compounds exhibiting more than one type of isomerism and mixtures thereof such as racemates and diastereomeric pairs . Also included are acid addition or base addition salts wherein the counterion is optically active for example D lactate or L lysine or racemic for example DL tartrate or DL arginine.

When any racemate crystallizes crystals of two different types are possible. The first type is the racemic compound true racemate referred to above wherein one homogeneous form of crystal is produced containing both enantiomers in equimolar amounts. The second type is the racemic mixture or conglomerate wherein two forms of crystal are produced in equimolar amounts each comprising a single enantiomer.

The present invention comprises the tautomeric forms of compounds of the invention. Where structural isomers are interconvertible via a low energy barrier tautomeric isomerism tautomerism can occur. This can take the form of proton tautomerism in compounds of the invention containing for example an imino keto or oxime group or so called valence tautomerism in compounds which contain an aromatic moiety. It follows that a single compound may exhibit more than one type of isomerism. The various ratios of the tautomers in solid and liquid form is dependent on the various substituents on the molecule as well as the particular crystallization technique used to isolate a compound.

The compounds of this invention may be used in the form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. Depending on the particular compound a salt of the compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s physical properties such as enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or oil. In some instances a salt of a compound also may be used as an aid in the isolation purification and or resolution of the compound.

Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being used in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared by combining a compound of formula I with an acid whose anion or a base whose cation is generally considered suitable for human consumption. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are particularly useful as products of the methods of the present invention because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound. For use in medicine the salts of the compounds of this invention are non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salts encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention when possible include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic hydrofluoric boric fluoroboric phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric carbonic sulfonic and sulfuric acids and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isothionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic trifluoromethanesulfonic succinic toluenesulfonic tartaric and trifluoroacetic acids. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids.

Specific examples of suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilic acid stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sufanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate hydroxybutyrate galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate 2 naphthalesulfonate oxalate palmoate pectinate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include alkali metal salts i.e. sodium or potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts and salts formed with suitable organic ligands e.g. quaternary ammonium salts. In another embodiment base salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts including aluminum arginine benzathine choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine meglumine olamine tromethamine and zinc salts.

Organic salts may be made from secondary tertiary or quaternary amine salts such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates i.e. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

In one embodiment hemisalts of acids and bases may also be formed for example hemisulfate and hemicalcium salts.

Also within the scope of the present invention are so called prodrugs of the compound of the invention. Thus certain derivatives of the compound of the invention which may have little or no pharmacological activity themselves can when administered into or onto the body be converted into the compound of the invention having the desired activity for example by hydrolytic cleavage. Such derivatives are referred to as prodrugs. Further information on the use of prodrugs may be found in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 ACS Symposium Series T. Higuchi and V. Stella and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Pergamon Press 1987 ed. E. B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association . Prodrugs in accordance with the invention can for example be produced by replacing appropriate functionalities present in the compounds of any of formula I with certain moieties known to those skilled in the art as pro moieties as described for example in Design of Prodrugs by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 .

The present invention also includes isotopically labeled compounds which are identical to those recited in formula I but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the present invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N O O P S F and Cl respectively. Compounds of the present invention prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or of said prodrugs which contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labeled compounds of formula I of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples and Preparations below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Typically a compound of the invention is administered in an amount effective to treat a condition as described herein. The compounds of the invention are administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the compounds required to treat the progress of the medical condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of or preventing the disorder or condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above. The term treating also includes adjuvant and neo adjuvant treatment of a subject.

The compounds of the invention may be administered orally. Oral administration may involve swallowing so that the compound enters the gastrointestinal tract or buccal or sublingual administration may be employed by which the compound enters the blood stream directly from the mouth.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly into the blood stream into muscle or into an internal organ. Suitable means for parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intraventricular intraurethral intrasternal intracranial intramuscular and subcutaneous. Suitable devices for parenteral administration include needle including microneedle injectors needle free injectors and infusion techniques.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered topically to the skin or mucosa that is dermally or transdermally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention can also be administered intranasally or by inhalation. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may be administered rectally or vaginally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly to the eye or ear.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary widely. Dosage levels of the order from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of a compound of the invention administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg. In another embodiment the total daily dose of the compound of the invention is from about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg and in another embodiment from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg i.e. mg compound of the invention per kg body weight . In one embodiment dosing is from 0.01 to 10 mg kg day. In another embodiment dosing is from 0.1 to 1.0 mg kg day. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound will be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times . Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

For oral administration the compositions may be provided in the form of tablets containing from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient or in another embodiment from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously doses may range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion.

Suitable subjects according to the present invention include mammalian subjects. Mammals according to the present invention include but are not limited to canine feline bovine caprine equine ovine porcine rodents lagomorphs primates and the like and encompass mammals in utero. In one embodiment humans are suitable subjects. Human subjects may be of either gender and at any stage of development.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of the invention for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the conditions recited herein.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the compound of the invention can be administered as compound per se. Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable salts are suitable for medical applications because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions. Such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a compound of the invention presented with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the compound as a unit dose composition for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the active compounds. A compound of the invention may be coupled with suitable polymers as targetable drug carriers. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The active compounds and compositions for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dose form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the compounds of formula I are ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. Such capsules or tablets may contain a controlled release formulation. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneal injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dose form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Typical formulations for this purpose include gels hydrogels lotions solutions creams ointments dusting powders dressings foams films skin patches wafers implants sponges fibers bandages and microemulsions. Liposomes may also be used. Typical carriers include alcohol water mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum glycerin polyethylene glycol and propylene glycol. Penetration enhancers may be incorporated see for example J. Pharm. Sci. 88 10 955 958 by Finnin and Morgan October 1999 .

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier. A typical formulation suitable for ocular or aural administration may be in the form of drops of a micronized suspension or solution in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline. Other formulations suitable for ocular and aural administration include ointments biodegradable e.g. absorbable gel sponges collagen and non biodegradable e.g. silicone implants wafers lenses and particulate or vesicular systems such as niosomes or liposomes. A polymer such as cross linked polyacrylic acid polyvinyl alcohol hyaluronic acid a cellulosic polymer for example hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose or methyl cellulose or a heteropolysaccharide polymer for example gelan gum may be incorporated together with a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride. Such formulations may also be delivered by iontophoresis.

For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant. Formulations suitable for intranasal administration are typically administered in the form of a dry powder either alone as a mixture for example in a dry blend with lactose or as a mixed component particle for example mixed with phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine from a dry powder inhaler or as an aerosol spray from a pressurized container pump spray atomizer preferably an atomizer using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist or nebulizer with or without the use of a suitable propellant such as 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 heptafluoropropane. For intranasal use the powder may comprise a bioadhesive agent for example chitosan or cyclodextrin.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dose form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository. Cocoa butter is a traditional suppository base but various alternatives may be used as appropriate.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

The compounds of the present invention can be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents in the treatment of various conditions or disease states. The compound s of the present invention and other therapeutic agent s may be may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially.

Two or more compounds may be administered simultaneously concurrently or sequentially. Additionally simultaneous administration may be carried out by mixing the compounds prior to administration or by administering the compounds at the same point in time but at different anatomic sites or using different routes of administration.

The phrases concurrent administration co administration simultaneous administration and administered simultaneously mean that the compounds are administered in combination.

The present invention includes the use of a combination of a LRRK2 inhibitor compound as provided in formula I and one or more additional pharmaceutically active agent s . If a combination of active agents is administered then they may be administered sequentially or simultaneously in separate dosage forms or combined in a single dosage form. Accordingly the present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of a a first agent comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound b a second pharmaceutically active agent and c a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle or diluent.

Various pharmaceutically active agents may be selected for use in conjunction with the compounds of Formula I depending on the disease disorder or condition to be treated. For example a pharmaceutical composition for use in treating Parkinson s disease may comprise a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with another agent such as a dopamine levodopa either alone or with a DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor a monoamine oxidase MAO inhibitor a catechol O methyltransferase COMT inhibitor or an anticholinergic agent or any combination thereof. Particularly preferred agents to combine with the compounds of formula I for use in treating Parkinson s disease include levodopa carbidopa tolcapone entacapone selegiline benztropine and trihexyphenidyl or any combination thereof. Pharmaceutically active agents that may be used in combination with the compounds of formula I and compositions thereof include without limitation 

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment described above. In one embodiment the kit contains a first dosage form comprising one or more of the compounds of the present invention and a container for the dosage in quantities sufficient to carry out the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of the invention.

The compounds of Formula I may be prepared by the methods described below together with synthetic methods known in the art of organic chemistry or modifications and transformations that are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may be prepared by routine methods known in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the Vol. I XII published by Wiley Interscience . Preferred methods include but are not limited to those described below.

During any of the following synthetic sequences it may be necessary and or desirable to protect sensitive or reactive groups on any of the molecules concerned. This can be achieved by means of conventional protecting groups such as those described in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1981 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1991 and T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1999 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be prepared according to the reaction Schemes discussed herein below. Unless otherwise indicated the substituents in the Schemes are defined as above. Isolation and purification of the products is accomplished by standard procedures which are known to a chemist of ordinary skill.

One skilled in the art will recognize that in many cases the compounds in Schemes 1 through 4 will be generated as a mixture of diastereomers and or enantiomers these may be separated at various stages of the synthetic schemes using conventional techniques or a combination of such techniques such as but not limited to crystallization normal phase chromatography reversed phase chromatography and chiral chromatography to afford the single enantiomers of the invention.

It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the various symbols superscripts and subscripts used in the schemes methods and examples are used for convenience of representation and or to reflect the order in which they are introduced in the schemes and are not intended to necessarily correspond to the symbols superscripts or subscripts in the appended claims. The schemes are representative of methods useful in synthesizing the compounds of the present invention. They are not to constrain the scope of the invention in any way.

The reactions for preparing compounds of the invention can be carried out in suitable solvents which can be readily selected by one of skill in the art of organic synthesis. Suitable solvents can be substantially non reactive with the starting materials reactants the intermediates or products at the temperatures at which the reactions are carried out e.g. temperatures which can range from the solvent s freezing temperature to the solvent s boiling temperature. A given reaction can be carried out in one solvent or a mixture of more than one solvent. Depending on the particular reaction step suitable solvents for a particular reaction step can be selected by the skilled artisan.

Reactions can be monitored according to any suitable method known in the art. For example product formation can be monitored by spectroscopic means such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy e.g. H or C infrared spectroscopy spectrophotometry e.g. UV visible mass spectrometry or by chromatographic methods such as high performance liquid chromatography HPLC or thin layer chromatography TLC .

Compounds of Formula I and intermediates thereof may be prepared according to the following reaction schemes and accompanying discussion. Unless otherwise indicated R R R Rand Rin the reaction schemes and discussions that follow are as defined hereinabove. In general the compounds of this invention may be made by processes which include processes analogous to those known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. Certain processes for the manufacture of the compounds of this invention and intermediates thereof are provided as further features of the invention and are illustrated by the following reaction schemes. Other processes may be described in the experimental section. The schemes and examples provided herein including the corresponding description are for illustration only and not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Scheme 1 refers to preparation of compounds of Formula I. Referring to Scheme 1 compounds of Formula 1 1 and 1 2 wherein X is a leaving group such as Br or I and Pg is a suitable protecting group such as 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl SEM p toluenesulfonyl tosyl or tert butoxycarbonyl BOC are commercially available or can be made by methods described herein or other methods well known to those skilled in the art.

A compound of Formula 1 3 can be prepared by coupling a compound of Formula 1 1 with a compound of Formula 1 2 for example by heating a mixture of a compound of Formula 1 1 with a compound of Formula 1 2 in the presence of a base such as N N diisopropylethylamine in an appropriate solvent such as n butanol at temperatures ranging between 50 C. and 200 C. Suitable reaction times are typically from 20 minutes to 48 hours. Alternatively a metal catalyzed such as using a palladium or copper catalyst coupling may be employed to accomplish the aforesaid coupling. In this variant of the coupling a mixture of a compound of Formula 1 1 and a compound of Formula 1 2 can be heated at temperatures ranging between 50 C. and 120 C. in the presence of a base such as cesium carbonate a metal catalyst such as a palladium catalyst e.g. palladium II acetate and a ligand such as 1 1 binaphthalene 2 2 diylbis diphenylphosphane BINAP in an appropriate solvent such as 1 4 dioxane. Suitable reaction times are typically from 30 minutes to 48 hours.

A compound of Formula 1 3 can subsequently be reacted with a compound of Formula R M wherein M can be B OH B OR wherein each R is independently H or Calkyl or wherein two OR groups together with the B atom to which they are attached form a 5 to 10 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more Calkyl a trialkyltin moiety or the like by a metal catalyzed such as using a palladium catalyst coupling reaction to obtain a compound of Formula 1 4. Compounds of Formula R M are commercially available or can be prepared by methods analogous to those described in the chemical art. Alternatively a compound of Formula 1 3 can be converted to a compound of Formula 1 5 wherein M is defined as above . A compound of Formula 1 5 can then be reacted with a compound of Formula R X wherein X is defined as above by a metal catalyzed such as using a palladium catalyst coupling reaction to obtain a compound of Formula I. Compounds of Formula R X are commercially available or can be prepared by methods analogous to those described in the chemical art. The type of reaction employed depends on the selection of X and M. For example when X is halogen or triflate and the R M reagent is a boronic acid or boronic ester a Suzuki reaction may be used A. Suzuki 1999 576 147 168 N. Miyaura and A. Suzuki 1995 95 2457 2483 A. F. Littke et al. 2000 122 4020 4028 . Alternatively when X is halogen or triflate and M is trialkyltin a Stille coupling may be employed V. Farina et al. 1997 50 1 652 . Where X is Br I or triflate and M is Zn or Mg a Negishi coupling or Kumada coupling may be used E. Erdik 1992 48 9577 9648 T. Banno et al. 2002 653 288 291 . Removal of the protecting group from compounds of Formula 1 4 under conditions well known to those skilled in the art affords compounds of Formula I.

Scheme 2 also refers to preparation of compounds of Formula I. Referring to Scheme 2 compounds of Formula I may be prepared utilizing analogous chemical transformations to those described in Scheme 1 but with a different ordering of steps. A compound of Formula 1 1 as in Scheme 1 can be converted to a compound of Formula 2 1 either directly or after conversion to a compound of Formula 2 2 using methods analogous to those described in Scheme 1. A compound of Formula 2 1 may then be coupled to a compound of Formula 1 2 as in Scheme 1 to produce a compound of Formula 1 4. The coupling conditions employed may be analogous to those described for the preparation of a compound of Formula 1 3 in Scheme 1.

Scheme 3 refers to a preparation of a compound of Formula 1 1. Referring to Scheme 3 compounds of Formula 3 1 are commercially available or can be made by methods described herein or other methods well known to those skilled in the art. A compound of Formula 3 1 can be treated with a strong base and the intermediate can be subsequently reacted with an electrophile to obtain a compound of Formula 1 1 Examples of suitable reaction conditions for the reaction include mixing a compound of Formula 3 1 with a suitable base such as lithium diisopropylamide in a suitable reaction solvent such as tetrahydrofuran. This is followed by addition of an electrophile such as an alkyl iodide or bromide. Suitable temperatures for the aforesaid reaction are typically between 78 C. and 30 C. Suitable reaction times typically are from 20 minutes to 48 hours. A compound of Formula 1 1 can be converted to a compound of Formula I using chemistry described in Schemes 1 and 2.

Scheme 4 refers to a preparation of a compound of Formula 4 5 wherein X is a leaving group such as Br or I. Referring to Scheme 4 compounds of Formula 4 1 wherein each R is independently H or Calkyl and Formula 4 2 are commercially available or can be made by methods described herein or other methods well known to those skilled in the art.

A compound of Formula 4 3 can be prepared by condensation of a compound of Formula 4 1 with a compound of Formula 4 2 for example through heating a compound of Formula 4 1 and a compound of Formula 4 2 in the presence of a base such as sodium methoxide in an appropriate solvent such as ethanol at temperatures ranging between 50 C. and 100 C. Suitable reaction times are typically between 1 and 24 hours. A compound of Formula 4 3 can be converted to a compound of Formula 4 4 by treatment with a chlorinating agent such as phosphorus oxychloride either in the presence of a suitable solvent or neat at a temperature ranging between 70 C. and 120 C. and a reaction time of between 1 and 24 hours. A compound of Formula 4 4 may then be treated with an appropriate halogenating agent such as N iodosuccinimide in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane to produce a compound of Formula 4 5. Suitable reaction temperatures range from 0 C. to 50 C. and suitable reaction times are typically from 30 minutes to 24 hours. A compound of Formula 4 5 can be protected i.e. the pyrrole ring nitrogen is protected by methods well known in the art and then the corresponding protected compound can be converted to a compound of Formula I using chemistry described in Schemes 1 2 and 3.

The following illustrate the synthesis of various compounds of the present invention. Additional compounds within the scope of this invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in these Examples either alone or in combination with techniques generally known in the art.

Experiments were generally carried out under inert atmosphere nitrogen or argon particularly in cases where oxygen or moisture sensitive reagents or intermediates were employed. Commercial solvents and reagents were generally used without further purification including anhydrous solvents where appropriate. In some cases Sure Seal products from the Aldrich Chemical Company Milwaukee Wis. were used. In other cases commercial solvents were passed through columns packed with 4A molecular sieves until the following QC standards for water were attained a 

Products were generally dried under vacuum before being carried on to further reactions or submitted for biological testing. Mass spectrometry data is reported from either liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS atmospheric pressure chemical ionization APCI or gas chromatography mass spectrometry GCMS instrumentation. Chemical shifts for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR data are expressed in parts per million ppm 6 referenced to residual peaks from the deuterated solvents employed.

For syntheses referencing procedures in other Examples or Methods reaction conditions length of reaction and temperature may vary. In general reactions were followed by thin layer chromatography or mass spectrometry and subjected to work up when appropriate. Purifications may vary between experiments in general solvents and the solvent ratios used for eluents gradients were chosen to provide appropriate Rs or retention times.

A solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 9.8 g 35 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 250 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with sodium hydride 60 in oil 1.54 g 38.5 mmol in three portions. After the reaction mixture had stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl chloride 6.4 g 38 mmol was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and allowed to stir for 3 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 250 mL and the organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Eluent 10 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 8 g 20 mmol 57 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.69 s 1H 8.14 s 1H 5.60 s 2H 3.51 t J 8 Hz 2H 0.82 t J 8 Hz 2H 0.10 s 9H .

Morpholine 2.45 g 28.1 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 6.63 g 51.3 mmol were added to a solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 10.5 g 25.6 mmol in n butanol 300 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 18 hours then concentrated under reduced pressure. Aqueous hydrochloric acid 0.1 M 100 mL was added and the resulting solid was collected by filtration washed with water 20 mL and dried under vacuum to provide the product as a yellow solid. Yield 8.0 g 17 mmol 66 . LCMS m z 461.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.39 s 1H 7.81 s 1H 5.52 s 2H 3.80 3.86 m 4H 3.46 3.53 m 6H 0.77 0.84 m 2H 0.10 s 9H .

To a solution of 5 iodo 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine P1 500 mg 1.09 mmol and 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 543 mg 4.24 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 20 mL was added tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 99.7 mg 0.109 mmol triethylamine 439 mg 4.34 mmol and 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl XPhos 51.8 mg 0.109 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated at 95 C. for 18 hours. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with water 100 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 415 mg 0.901 mmol 83 . LCMS m z 461.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.45 s 1H 7.73 s 1H 5.59 s 2H 3.87 3.93 m 4H 3.68 3.74 m 4H 3.49 3.56 m 2H 1.35 s 12H 0.87 0.93 m 2H 0.06 s 9H .

4 Methylbenzenesulfonyl chloride 5.21 g 27.3 mmol was added to a suspension of 5 bromo 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 6.34 g 27.3 mmol in acetone 70 mL . After addition of an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 1.11 g 27.8 mmol in 15 mL water the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The mixture was then diluted with water 125 mL stirred for 10 minutes and filtered. The collected solids were washed with water to afford the product as a solid. Yield 8.88 g 23.0 mmol 84 . LCMS m z 385.9 387.9 389.8 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.84 s 1H 8.42 s 1H 8.06 br d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 7.51 m 2H 2.37 br s 3H .

5 Bromo 7 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl 4 3 methylpiperidin 1 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine racemic version of C15 see Example 7 1.44 g 3.20 mmol was added to a solution of triethylamine 1.3 g 13 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 15 mL . 4 4 5 5 Tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 1.64 g 12.8 mmol was then slowly added and the mixture was degassed by bubbling nitrogen through it for 5 minutes. 2 Dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl XPhos 137 mg 0.287 mmol and tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 146 mg 0.160 mmol were then introduced and the reaction mixture was heated at 95 C. for 18 hours. After cooling the mixture was filtered through cotton and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 75 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a solid. Yield 1.25 g 2.52 mmol 79 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.41 s 1H 8.10 br d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.95 s 1H 7.30 br d J 8.6 Hz 2H 4.28 br d J 13 Hz 1H 4.18 4.24 m 1H 2.99 ddd J 13 11 4 Hz 1H 2.70 dd J 12.9 10.9 Hz 1H 2.40 s 3H 1.77 1.85 m 1H 1.56 1.70 m 4H 1.35 s 12H 0.88 d J 6.6 Hz 3H .

4 Chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 5 bromo 7 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl 4 3S 3 methylpiperidin 1 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C15 in Example 7. Yield 7.38 g 15.6 mmol 80 . LCMS m z 473.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.42 s 1H 7.34 s 1H 5.55 s 2H 4.06 4.17 m 2H 3.50 3.57 m 2H 2.91 ddd J 12.6 11.5 3.5 Hz 1H 2.58 dd J 12.6 10.8 Hz 1H 1.95 2.07 m 1H 1.76 1.95 m 3H 1.11 1.23 m 1H 0.96 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.88 0.94 m 2H 0.04 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 4.1 g 10 mmol 1 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 2.1 g 10 mmol and potassium carbonate 2.8 g 20 mmol in aqueous 1 4 dioxane was added dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 350 mg 0.50 mmol . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with nitrogen this procedure was carried out a total of three times. After heating at reflux for 18 hours the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature diluted with water 200 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 2.0 g 5.5 mmol 55 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.66 s 1H 7.68 d J 0.5 Hz 1H 7.62 br s 1H 7.36 s 1H 5.68 s 2H 3.99 s 3H 3.54 3.59 m 2H 0.91 0.97 m 2H 0.03 s 9H .

4 Chloro 5 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C2 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 3 6 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile 2 in Example 2. In this case the product obtained as a yellow solid was purified by recrystallization from ethyl acetate rather than via preparative HPLC. Yield 1.0 g 4.3 mmol 43 over two steps. LCMS m z 234.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.66 br s 1H 8.58 s 1H 7.91 s 1H 7.69 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.63 d J 0.7 Hz 1H 3.89 s 3H .

5 Iodo N N dimethyl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 amine C3 prepared from 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 according to the method described for synthesis of 3 4 dimethylamino 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile 5 in Example 5 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of 4 morpholin 4 yl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine P2 in Preparation P2. The product was obtained as a yellow solid. Yield 342 mg 0.817 mmol 69 . LCMS m z 419.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.37 s 1H 7.57 s 1H 5.56 s 2H 3.49 3.57 m 2H 3.25 s 6H 1.36 s 12H 0.86 0.94 m 2H 0.06 s 9H .

To a solution of 5 iodo 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine P1 500 mg 1.1 mmol and 1 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 272 mg 1.31 mmol in a mixture of ethanol and water 4 1 10 mL were added dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 41 mg 58 mol and potassium carbonate 447 mg 3.23 mmol . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with nitrogen this procedure was carried out a total of three times. It was then heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. After concentration in vacuo the residue was purified via chromatography on silica gel Eluent 1 1 ethyl acetate petroleum ether to provide the product as a yellow solid. Yield 200 mg 0.48 mmol 44 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.39 s 1H 7.86 s 1H 7.59 s 1H 7.52 s 1H 5.57 s 2H 3.90 s 3H 3.50 3.58 m 6H 3.20 3.27 m 4H 0.83 dd J 8.0 7.9 Hz 2H 0.09 s 9H .

A solution of 5 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C4 200 mg 0.48 mmol in trifluoroacetic acid 5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the product as a yellow oil which was used for the next step without additional purification.

A solution of 5 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 yl methanol C5 material from the previous step 0.48 mmol in methanol 5 mL was brought to a pH of 12 via addition of solid potassium carbonate. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via preparative HPLC Column Agella Venusil ASB C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile Eluent 13 B provided the product as a yellow solid. Yield over two steps 90 mg 0.32 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 285.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.96 br s 1H 8.47 s 1H 7.85 s 1H 7.57 s 1H 7.52 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 3.90 s 3H 3.53 3.59 m 4H 3.45 3.51 m 4H .

To a 78 C. solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 15.0 g 36.6 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 500 mL was added lithium diisopropylamide 2 M solution in heptane tetrahydrofuran ethylbenzene 183 mL 366 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at 20 C. for 2 hours then re cooled to 78 C. Iodomethane 52.1 g 367 mmol was added at 78 C. and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 20 C. for 2 hours. Saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 100 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Eluent 10 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 10 g 24 mmol 66 . LCMS m z 424.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.58 s 1H 5.69 s 2H 3.48 3.54 m 2H 2.60 s 3H 0.88 0.95 m 2H 0.05 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 6 methyl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C6 300 mg 0.71 mmol and 3 cyanophenyl boronic acid 104 mg 0.708 mmol in a mixture of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and water 5 1 10 mL was added potassium carbonate 193 mg 1.40 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 17 mg 23 mol . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with nitrogen this procedure was carried out a total of three times. After heating at reflux for 18 hours the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 140 mg 0.351 mmol 50 . LCMS m z 399.2 M H .

To a solution of 3 4 chloro 6 methyl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C7 140 mg 0.351 mmol in n butanol 5 mL was added morpholine 30.6 mg 0.351 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 90.9 mg 0.703 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 hours then concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a yellow solid. Yield 125 mg 0.278 mmol 79 . LCMS m z 450.3 M H .

A solution of 3 6 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C8 125 mg 0.278 mmol in trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours then concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a yellow solid 125 mg . This was used in the next step without additional purification. LCMS m z 349.9 M H .

A solution of 3 7 hydroxymethyl 6 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C9 from the previous step 125 mg 0.278 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL was adjusted to a pH of 11 by addition of solid potassium carbonate. The mixture was filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via preparative HPLC Column Boston Symmetrix ODS H 5 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 19 to 39 B afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 54 mg 0.17 mmol 61 over two steps. LCMS m z 319.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.17 br s 1H 8.34 s 1H 7.77 7.83 m 2H 7.65 7.74 m 2H 3.27 3.33 m 4H 2.98 3.06 m 4H 2.36 s 3H .

To a solution of 6 bromopyridine 2 carbonitrile 80 mg 0.44 mmol and 4 morpholin 4 yl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine P2 241 mg 0.523 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 2.5 mL and water 0.5 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 51 mg 44 mol and sodium carbonate 140 mg 1.32 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 120 C. under microwave irradiation for 15 minutes then diluted with water 30 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via preparative thin layer chromatography Eluent 1 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate afforded the product as a brown oil. Yield 110 mg 0.252 mmol 57 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.52 s 1H 7.84 7.93 m 2H 7.74 s 1H 7.59 dd J 7.0 1.2 Hz 1H 5.66 s 2H 3.56 3.65 m 6H 3.34 3.40 m 4H 0.93 dd J 8.3 8.0 Hz 2H 0.05 s 9H .

A solution of 6 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl pyridine 2 carbonitrile C10 110 mg 0.252 mmol in trifluoroacetic acid 3 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a yellow oil which was used for the next step without additional purification.

A solution of 6 7 hydroxymethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl pyridine 2 carbonitrile C11 from the previous step 85 mg 0.25 mmol in acetonitrile 3 mL was brought to a pH of 12 via addition of solid potassium carbonate. After 30 minutes at room temperature the reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via preparative HPLC Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A ammonia in water pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 10 to 50 B afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 15.2 mg 49.6 mol 20 over two steps. LCMS m z 307.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.38 s 1H 8.13 dd J 8.1 7.7 Hz 1H 7.96 br d J 8 Hz 1H 7.89 br d J 8 Hz 1H 7.86 s 1H 3.50 3.55 m 4H 3.19 3.24 m 4H .

To a stirred mixture of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 8.2 g 20 mmol 3 cyanophenyl boronic acid 3.2 g 22 mmol and potassium carbonate 8.3 g 60 mmol in a mixture of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and water 4 1 ratio 250 mL was added 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 731 mg 1.00 mmol . The reaction mixture was degassed and then charged with nitrogen this procedure was carried out a total of three times. The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 3 hours then cooled to room temperature and diluted with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification via silica gel column chromatography Eluent 10 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 5.0 g 12 mmol 60 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.75 s 1H 8.13 s 1H 8.00 8.02 m 1H 7.84 7.92 m 2H 7.68 dd J 7.8 7.8 Hz 1H 5.70 s 2H 3.60 dd J 8.0 8.0 Hz 2H 0.86 dd J 8.0 8.0 Hz 2H 0.08 s 9H .

A solution of 3 4 chloro 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C12 3.8 g 9.9 mmol in trifluoroacetic acid 25 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford the product 4 g 100 mass recovery as a yellow oil which was used in the next step without further purification.

A solution of 3 4 chloro 7 hydroxymethyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C13 4 g from the previous step 9.9 mmol in methanol 100 mL was adjusted to pH 12 by addition of solid potassium carbonate. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was mixed with water 100 mL . The resulting solid was isolated via filtration and washed with water providing the product as a white solid. Yield 1.3 g 5.1 mmol 52 over two steps. LCMS m z 255.0 M H .

Morpholine 871 mg 10 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 2.6 g 20 mmol were added to a solution of 3 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C14 2.5 g 9.8 mmol in n butanol 100 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 3 hours. Solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was purified using chromatography on silica gel Eluent 1 1 ethyl acetate petroleum ether . Subsequent recrystallization from ethyl acetate and tert butyl methyl ether afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 770 mg 2.52 mmol 26 . LCMS m z 306.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.34 br s 1H 8.41 s 1H 7.99 8.02 m 1H 7.89 br d J 8 Hz 1H 7.76 br d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.68 dd J 7.8 7.8 Hz 1H 3.44 3.50 m 4H 3.11 3.17 m 4H .

A mixture of 3 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C14 157 mg 0.616 mmol dimethylamine 189 mg 4.19 mmol and triethylamine 182 mg 1.80 mmol in n butanol 12 mL was heated under microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 25 minutes. After concentration in vacuo the residue was purified by preparative HPLC Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A ammonia in water pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 25 to 65 B to give the product as a white solid. Yield 72.1 mg 0.274 mmol 44 . LCMS m z 263.8 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.15 br s 1H 8.28 s 1H 7.93 br s 1H 7.78 br d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.73 br d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.62 br dd J 8.0 7.8 Hz 1H 7.57 br s 1H 2.73 s 6H .

To a solution of 3 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C14 100 mg 0.393 mmol and 2S 2 methylmorpholine 54 mg 0.53 mmol in n butanol 20 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 152 mg 1.18 mol and the reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo purification via preparative HPLC Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A ammonia in water pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 27 to 47 B provided the product as a white solid. Yield 17.5 mg 54.8 mol 14 . LCMS m z 320.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.71 br s 1H 8.53 br s 1H 7.73 7.89 m 2H 7.51 7.69 m 2H 7.28 s 1H assumed partially obscured by solvent peak 3.56 3.77 m 3H 3.39 3.54 m 2H 2.86 2.98 m 1H 2.53 2.65 m 1H 0.93 1.03 m 3H .

5 Bromo 4 chloro 7 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine P3 was reacted with the hydrochloride salt of 3S 3 methylpiperidine according to the method described for preparation of 3 4 2S 2 methylmorpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 ylbenzonitrile 6 in Example 6. In this case purification was effected via silica gel chromatography Eluent 5 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate providing the product as a white solid. Yield 4.3 g 9.6 mmol 92 .

A mixture of 5 bromo 7 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl 4 3S 3 methylpiperidin 1 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C15 0.225 g 0.501 mmol 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl boronic acid 0.104 g 0.684 mmol sodium carbonate 0.159 g 1.50 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 36 mg 51 mol in acetonitrile 2 mL and water 2 mL was heated to 150 C. under microwave irradiation for 15 minutes. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo to afford the product 0.35 g 100 which was used directly in the following step without additional purification.

To a stirred solution of 3 7 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl 4 3S 3 methylpiperidin 1 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 ylphenyl methanol C16 from the previous step 

3 4 Dihydro 2H pyran 5.6 g 67 mmol and trifluoroacetic acid 1.17 g 10.3 mmol were added to a solution of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 10.0 g 51.5 mmol in toluene 200 mL and the reaction mixture was heated to 90 C. for 2 hours. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 200 mL and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 10 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a white solid. Yield 13.4 g 48.2 mmol 94 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 s 1H 7.83 s 1H 5.41 dd J 9.5 2.5 Hz 1H 4.01 4.08 m 1H 3.65 3.74 m 1H 1.98 2.18 m 3H 1.6 1.76 m 3H 1.32 s 12H .

A mixture of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 2.0 g 4.9 mmol 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole C17 1.91 g 6.87 mmol potassium phosphate 4.0 g 19 mmol and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 0.10 g 87 mol was degassed several times with nitrogen and irradiated in a microwave synthesizer at 130 C. for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 400 mL and water 60 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 10 to 80 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a brown oil. Yield 1.33 g 3.06 mmol 62 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.67 s 1H 7.87 s 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.38 s 1H 5.68 s 2H 5.46 dd J 9.4 2.9 Hz 1H 4.08 4.15 m 1H 3.71 3.79 m 1H 3.57 dd J 8.3 8.0 Hz 2H 2.04 2.24 m 3H 1.61 1.79 m 3H 0.94 dd J 8.3 8.3 Hz 2H 0.03 s 9H .

A solution of 4 chloro 5 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C18 3.3 g 7.6 mmol morpholine 0.99 g 11 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 6 mL 34 mmol in n butanol 15 mL was irradiated in a microwave synthesizer at 100 C. for 30 minutes. After removal of solvents in vacuo the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography Gradient 10 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the product as a brown oil. Yield 2.6 g 5.4 mmol 71 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.50 s 1H 7.79 s 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.17 s 1H 5.62 s 2H 5.44 dd J 6.5 6.0 Hz 1H 4.08 4.15 m 1H 3.71 3.79 m 1H 3.62 3.67 m 4H 3.58 dd J 8.5 8.0 Hz 2H 3.33 3.39 m 4H 2.06 2.19 m 3H 1.62 1.79 m 3H 0.93 dd J 8.5 7.5 Hz 2H 0.04 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 morpholin 4 yl 5 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C19 4.0 g 8.2 mmol in dichloromethane 20 mL was added a solution of hydrogen chloride in 1 4 dioxane 4 M 100 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours then poured into a mixture of ethyl acetate 300 mL and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 300 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 300 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 10 to 80 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 2.18 g 5.44 mmol 66 . LCMS m z 401.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.51 s 1H 7.78 s 2H 7.19 s 1H 5.64 s 2H 3.56 3.66 m 6H 3.34 3.40 m 4H 0.91 0.98 m 2H 0.03 s 9H .

4 Morpholin 4 yl 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C20 0.13 g 0.32 mmol was dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Removal of solvent in vacuo provided the product 100 mg as a brown solid this was used in the next step without further purification. LCMS m z 301.2 M H .

To a solution of 4 morpholin 4 yl 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 yl methanol C21 from the previous step 0.10 g 50.32 mmol in acetonitrile 10 mL was added potassium carbonate 0.34 g 2.5 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The mixture was filtered and the filter cake was washed with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo purification via preparative HPLC Column DIKMA Diamonsil 2 C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 0 to 17 B afforded the product as a pale solid. Yield 36 mg 0.11 mmol 34 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 271.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.72 br s 1H 8.47 s 1H 7.78 s 2H 7.19 s 1H 3.60 3.67 m 4H 3.41 3.48 m 4H .

To a solution of 4 chloro 2 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 400 mg 2.4 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL was added N iodosuccinimide 537 mg 2.39 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours then washed with aqueous sodium sulfite solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a brown solid. Yield 330 mg 1.12 mmol 47 . LCMS m z 293.8 M H .

4 Chloro 5 iodo 2 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C22 was converted to the product according to the method used for synthesis of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a yellow oil. Yield 400 mg 0.94 mmol 84 . LCMS m z 424.0 M H .

The product was prepared from 4 chloro 5 iodo 2 methyl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C23 according to the method described for synthesis of 3 4 2S 2 methylmorpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 ylbenzonitrile 6 in Example 6. In this case purification was carried out via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the product as a yellow oil. Yield 300 mg 0.63 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 475.2 M H .

To a solution of 5 iodo 2 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C24 100 mg 0.21 mmol 3 cyanophenyl boronic acid 62 mg 0.42 mmol and potassium carbonate 100 mg 0.72 mmol in a mixture of ethanol and water 4 1 5 mL was added dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium 15 mg 21 mol . The reaction mixture was degassed and purged with nitrogen this procedure was carried out a total of three times. After the reaction mixture had heated at 90 C. for 3 hours it was allowed to cool and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via preparative thin layer chromatography Eluent 1 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 52 mg 0.12 mmol 57 . LCMS m z 451.3 M H .

3 2 Methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C25 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 5 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 1 in Example 1. In this case preparative HPLC purification was carried out using a Phenomenex Gemini C18 column 8 m Mobile phase A ammonia in water pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 30 to 50 B. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 17.3 mg 54.2 mol 45 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 320.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.91 7.93 m 1H 7.85 7.88 m 1H 7.60 7.69 m 2H 7.38 s 1H 3.51 3.55 m 4H 3.24 3.28 m 4H 2.59 s 3H .

A solution of 5 iodo N N dimethyl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 amine C3 418 mg 1.00 mmol 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl boronic acid 228 mg 1.50 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 115 mg 0.100 mmol and cesium carbonate 625 mg 1.92 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 6 mL and water 1.5 mL was purged with nitrogen then heated under microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 60 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 2 to 17 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a brown oil. Yield 369 mg 0.926 mmol 93 . LCMS m z 399.0 M H .

A solution of 3 4 dimethylamino 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl phenylmethanol C26 397 mg 0.996 mmol in trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to provide the product 400 mg as a brown oil. This material was taken directly into the following step. LCMS m z 395.1 M H .

A mixture of 3 4 dimethylamino 7 hydroxymethyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzyl trifluoroacetate C27 from the previous step 400 mg 50.996 mmol and potassium carbonate 500 mg 3.6 mmol in methanol 10 mL was stirred at 80 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 60 mL the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via preparative HPLC Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A ammonia in water pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 21 to 33 B afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 77.7 mg 0.290 mmol 29 over two steps. LCMS m z 268.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.83 br s 1H 8.39 s 1H 7.50 br s 1H 7.38 7.42 m 2H 7.29 7.34 m 1H 7.11 s 1H 4.78 s 2H 2.84 s 6H .

A solution of diisopropylamine 2.9 g 29 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 30 mL was cooled to 78 C. and treated drop wise with n butyllithium 2.5 M 11.6 mL 29 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and then cooled to 78 C. A solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 8.0 g 20 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was added drop wise and stirred was continued at 78 C. for 1 hour. After drop wise addition of a solution of ethyl formate 2.6 g 35 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL to the 78 C. reaction mixture it was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 18 hours. It was then cooled to 0 C. and the reaction was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 20 mL then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 25 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 5.0 g 11 mmol 55 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.11 s 1H 8.80 s 1H 6.05 s 2H 3.55 3.62 m 2H 0.89 0.96 m 2H 0.05 s 9H .

Morpholine 1.09 g 12.5 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 2.94 g 22.7 mmol were added to a solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde C28 5.0 g 11 mmol in acetonitrile 20 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at reflux for 16 hours whereupon it was cooled and concentrated in vacuo the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the product as a yellow oil. Yield 4.0 g 8.2 mmol 74 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.99 s 1H 8.54 s 1H 6.01 s 2H 3.92 3.98 m 4H 3.70 3.75 m 4H 3.58 3.65 m 2H 0.91 0.96 m 2H 0.05 s 9H .

5 Iodo 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde C29 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 3 4 chloro 6 methyl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C7 in Example 2. The product was obtained as a yellow solid. Yield 1.5 g 3.2 mmol 78 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.75 s 1H 8.60 s 1H 7.77 7.83 m 2H 7.72 7.76 m 1H 7.67 br dd J 8 8 Hz 1H 6.09 s 2H 3.66 3.71 m 2H 3.38 3.44 m 4H 3.23 3.28 m 4H 0.94 1.01 m 2H 0.03 s 9H .

A solution of 3 6 formyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C30 200 mg 0.43 mmol and diethylamino sulfur trifluoride 276 mg 1.71 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL was stirred at 40 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated purification by preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel Eluent 1 1 ethyl acetate petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 150 mg 0.31 mmol 72 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.58 s 1H 7.76 ddd J 7.3 1.6 1.5 Hz 1H 7.72 7.74 m 1H 7.61 7.70 m 2H 6.74 t J 52.5 Hz 1H 5.86 s 2H 3.65 3.72 m 2H 3.34 3.42 m 4H 3.15 3.21 m 4H 0.95 1.02 m 2H 0.02 s 9H .

A solution of 3 6 difluoromethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C31 10 mg 21 mol in trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by preparative reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography Column DIKMA Diamonsil 2 C18 5 m Eluent 22 acetonitrile in water containing 0.225 formic acid to provide the product as a white solid. Yield 2.0 mg 5.6 mol 27 . LCMS m z 355.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.06 br s 1H 8.47 s 1H 7.92 ddd J 6.7 2.1 1.7 Hz 1H 7.83 7.85 m 1H 7.69 7.76 m 2H 7.02 t J 52.5 Hz 1H 3.22 3.30 m 4H 3.03 3.10 m 4H .

To a 78 C. solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 1.5 g 5.4 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 50 mL was added n butyllithium 2.5 M 6.4 mL 16.1 mmol drop wise. After the reaction mixture had been stirred at 78 C. for 2 hours it was treated with dihydro 2H pyran 3 4H one 1.61 g 16.1 mmol warmed to room temperature and stirred for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched with water 50 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 200 mg 0.79 mmol 15 . LCMS m z 254.0 M H .

To a solution of 3 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ol C32 200 mg 0.79 mmol and morpholine 134 mg 1.54 mol in n butanol 10 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 305 mg 2.36 mol and the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 2 hours. After concentration in vacuo preparative reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A aqueous ammonia pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 9 to 29 B provided the product as a white solid. Yield 180 mg 0.59 mmol 75 . LCMS m z 305.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl DO 8.73 s 1H 7.52 s 1H 3.92 4.03 m 4H 3.74 3.88 m 4H 3.32 3.40 m 2H 3.15 3.24 m 2H 2.07 2.16 m 1H 1.88 2.06 m 2H 1.57 1.68 m 1H .

Triethylsilane 10 mL and trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL were added over 10 minutes to a solution of 3 4 morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ol C33 40 mg 0.13 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo. Preparative reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography Column Boston Symmetrix ODS H 5 m Mobile phase A water containing 0.225 formic acid Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 11 to 31 B afforded 199 as a white solid Yield 11.3 mg 39.5 mol 30 and 200 also as a white solid Yield 7.0 mg 24 mol 18 .

199 LCMS m z 287.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.97 br s 1H 8.29 s 1H 7.31 s 1H 5.87 5.93 m 1H 4.30 4.36 m 2H 3.68 3.78 m 6H 3.36 3.43 m 4H 2.21 2.29 m 2H .

200 LCMS m z 287.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.83 br s 1H 8.26 s 1H 7.18 s 1H 6.65 s 1H 3.92 3.97 m 2H 3.69 3.76 m 4H 3.40 3.46 m 4H 2.29 2.36 m 2H 1.88 1.96 m 2H .

3 4 Morpholin 4 yl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile 4 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a yellow solid. Yield 0.90 g 2.1 mmol 70 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.55 s 1H 7.86 br s 1H 7.79 br d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.63 br d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.57 dd J 7.6 7.6 Hz 1H 7.29 s 1H 5.67 s 2H 3.58 3.64 m 2H 3.52 3.58 m 4H 3.27 3.32 m 4H 0.92 0.98 m 2H 0.03 s 9H .

Hydroxylamine hydrochloride 278 mg 4.00 mmol and sodium carbonate 318 mg 3.00 mmol were added to a stirred solution of 3 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C34 436 mg 1.00 mmol in ethanol 10 mL and water 5 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 2 hours then concentrated in vacuo poured into water 25 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated affording the product as a white solid. Yield 280 mg 0.60 mmol 60 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.67 s 1H 8.43 s 1H 7.89 br s 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.64 br d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.53 br d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.46 dd J 7.6 7.6 Hz 1H 5.89 br s 1.6H 5.61 s 2H 3.53 3.61 m 2H 3.39 3.47 m 4H 3.13 3.21 m 4H 0.81 0.88 m 2H 0.09 s 9H .

Triethyl orthoformate 760 mg 5.1 mol and boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 370 mg 2.6 mol were added to a 0 C. solution of N hydroxy 3 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzenecarboximidamide C35 600 mg 1.3 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 25 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at 40 C. for 18 hours then poured into water 50 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification via preparative reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A aqueous ammonia pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 30 to 50 B provided the product as a yellow solid. Yield 62 mg 0.18 mmol 14 . LCMS m z 349.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.77 s 1H 8.40 s 1H 8.24 br s 1H 7.98 br d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.82 br d J 7.3 Hz 1H 7.63 7.70 m 2H 3.39 3.45 m 4H 3.13 3.20 m 4H .

A solution of 2 bromo 1 3 methyl 1 2 oxazol 5 yl ethanone 2.50 g 12.2 mmol and 2 benzylamino ethanol 3.70 g 24.5 mmol in acetonitrile 25 mL was stirred at 35 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified using silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the product as a yellow oil. Yield 1.2 g 4.4 mmol 36 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.27 7.38 m 5H 6.22 s 1H 4.11 4.19 m 1H 3.76 3.84 m 1H 3.60 AB quartet J 13.0 Hz 13.2 Hz 2H 2.99 br d J 11.0 Hz 1H 2.71 2.79 m 1H 2.55 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 2.42 ddd J 11.7 11.5 3.6 Hz 1H 2.29 s 3H .

Trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate 2.9 g 13 mmol and triethylsilane 2.6 g 22 mmol were added to a solution of 4 benzyl 2 3 methyl 1 2 oxazol 5 yl morpholin 2 ol C36 1.2 g 4.4 mmol in dichloromethane 15 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then adjusted to a pH of 5 to 6 via addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. After extraction with dichloromethane 3 20 mL the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 500 mg 1.9 mmol 43 . LCMS m z 258.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.27 7.37 m 5H 6.07 s 1H 4.75 dd J 9.7 2.3 Hz 1H 3.96 ddd J 11.3 2.8 2.4 Hz 1H 3.81 ddd J 11.3 10.8 2.5 Hz 1H 3.52 3.61 m 2H 3.02 br d J 11.4 Hz 1H 2.68 2.75 m 1H 2.29 s 3H 2.27 2.37 m 2H .

Ammonium cerium IV nitrate 442 mg 0.806 mmol was added to a solution of 4 benzyl 2 3 methyl 1 2 oxazol 5 yl morpholine C37 100 mg 0.39 mmol in acetonitrile water 5 1 mixture 6 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 4 hours then concentrated in vacuo preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel Eluent 10 1 dichloromethane methanol provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 40 mg 0.24 mmol 62 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.11 s 1H 4.79 dd J 10.0 2.4 Hz 1H 4.01 ddd J 11.8 2.5 2.4 Hz 1H 3.81 3.89 m 1H 3.35 dd J 12.7 2.5 Hz 1H 2.99 3.07 m 3H 2.30 s 3H .

To a solution of 2 3 methyl 1 2 oxazol 5 yl morpholine C38 20 mg 0.12 mmol in n butanol 7 mL was added 3 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C14 36.2 mg 0.142 mol and the reaction mixture was placed in a sealed tube and heated at 150 C. in a microwave reactor for 2 hours. After removal of solvent the residue was purified by preparative reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography Column YMC Actus Triart C18 5 m Mobile phase A water containing 0.225 formic acid Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 33 to 53 B to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 0.78 mg 2.0 mol 2 . LCMS m z 387.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d characteristic peaks 12.45 br s 1H 8.45 s 1H 8.00 8.03 m 1H 7.85 br d J 8 Hz 1H 7.76 br d J 8 Hz 1H 7.72 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 7.66 dd J 8 8 Hz 1H 6.25 s 1H 4.58 4.63 m 1H 3.71 3.83 m 2H 3.01 3.09 m 1H 2.88 2.97 m 1H 2.20 s 3H .

A solution of 3 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl benzonitrile C14 in dimethyl sulfoxide 0.1 M 500 L 50 mol was added to a vial containing the appropriate amine 150 mol . After addition of cesium fluoride 23 mg 150 mol the reaction mixture was shaken at 100 C. for 16 hours then purified via preparative HPLC using an appropriate gradient with one of the following systems 1 Column DIKMA Diamonsil 2 C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile 2 Column Boston Symmetrix ODS H 5 m or Phenomenex Synergi C18 4 m or Agella Venusil ASB C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile.

A solution of the appropriate boronic ester in aqueous 1 4 dioxane 1 5 v v water 1 4 dioxane 0.3 M 400 L 120 mol was combined with a solution of 5 iodo 4 3S 3 methylpiperidin 1 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine P5 0.25 M in 1 5 water 1 4 dioxane 400 L 100 mol . The solution was treated with cesium carbonate 65 mg 200 mol and degassed by bubbling nitrogen through it. 1 1 Bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 3 mg 5 mol was added to the reaction mixture which was again degassed with nitrogen then shaken at 150 C. for 4 hours. After removal of solvent using a Speedvac concentrator the products were purified via preparative thin layer chromatography in an appropriate solvent system and taken to the following step.

The product from the previous step was treated with a solution of trifluoroacetic acid in dichloromethane 1 5 v v 2 mL and the reaction mixture was shaken at 30 C. for 2 hours. After concentration using the Speedvac the residue was treated with a solution of ammonium hydroxide in methanol 1 4 v v 2 mL and shaken at 30 C. for 16 hours. Solvents were removed on the Speedvac and the product was purified via preparative HPLC using an appropriate gradient Column DIKMA Diamonsil 2 C18 5 m or Agella Venusil ASB C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile .

A solution of 5 iodo 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine P1 in 1 4 dioxane 0.20 M 400 L 80 mol was combined with a solution of the appropriate boronic acid in 1 4 dioxane 0.50 M 200 L 100 mol . An aqueous solution of potassium phosphate 0.80 M 200 L 160 mol was added followed by 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 3 mg 5 mol and the reaction mixture was shaken at 100 C. for 16 hours. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated on a Speedvac . The residue was partitioned between dichloromethane and saturated aqueous sodium carbonate solution and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 1 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated using the Speedvac to afford the crude product which was used directly in the next step.

The product of the preceding reaction was treated with a solution of concentrated hydrochloric acid in ethanol 1 6 v v 1 mL and the reaction mixture was shaken at 80 C. for 16 hours. After removal of solvents on the Speedvac the residue was purified via preparative HPLC using an appropriate gradient with one of the following systems 1 Column Kromasil Eternity 5 C18 5 m or Boston Symmetrix ODS H 5 m or Phenomenex Synergi C18 4 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile 2 Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A aqueous ammonium hydroxide pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile.

A solution of the 4 chloro 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine substrate in dimethyl sulfoxide 0.5 M 200 L 100 mol was added to a solution of the appropriate amine in dimethyl sulfoxide 0.8 M 200 L 160 mol . N N Diisopropylethylamine 120 L 700 mol was added and the reaction mixture was shaken at 80 C. for 16 hours. After removal of solvents using a Speedvac the product was purified via preparative HPLC using an appropriate gradient with one of the following systems 1 Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m or Agela Durashell C18 5 m Mobile phase A aqueous ammonium hydroxide pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile or 2 Column DIKMA Diamonsil 2 C18 5 m or Phenomenex Synergi C18 4 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile.

A solution of 4 chloro 5 iodo 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine C1 in N N dimethylformamide 0.25 M 500 L 125 mol was added to the appropriate amine 150 mol . Triethylamine 35 L 250 mol was added and the reaction mixture was shaken at 100 C. for 16 hours. This solution was used directly in the following step.

The product solution from the preceding step 125 mol was mixed with a solution of the appropriate boronic acid in N N dimethylformamide 0.25 M 500 L 125 mol . An aqueous solution of cesium carbonate 1.25 M 200 L 250 mol was added followed by 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 1.6 mg 2.5 mol and the reaction mixture was shaken at 120 C. for 4 hours. Removal of solvent using a Speedvac provided a residue which was used directly in the following step.

The product from the previous step 125 mol was treated with a solution of concentrated hydrochloric acid in ethanol 1 6 v v 2 mL and the reaction mixture was shaken at 80 C. for 16 hours. After removal of solvent via the Speedvac the residue was taken up in a solution of ammonium hydroxide 30 aqueous in methanol 1 4 v v 2 mL . The mixture was shaken at 30 C. for 16 hours concentrated on the Speedvac and purified via preparative HPLC using an appropriate gradient Column DIKMA Diamonsil 2 C18 5 m or Agella Venusil ASB C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.225 formic acid in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile .

A solution of the 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 7 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine substrate in 1 4 dioxane 0.1 M 1 mL 100 mol was added to the appropriate aryl or heteroaryl halide 100 mol . An aqueous solution of cesium carbonate 1.0 M 200 L 200 mol was added followed by 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 1.3 mg 2.0 mol and the reaction mixture was shaken at 120 C. for 4 hours. Removal of solvent using a Speedvac provided a residue which was used directly in the following step.

Protecting group removal and purification were carried out as described in the final step of Method E.

The following table Table 1 provides Examples 11 197 and Examples 203 225 of the present invention the structure of the compound reference to the method of preparation and characterizing data for the compound. Certain of the compounds depicted in the table are racemic and others are depicted as single enantiomers with the absolute stereochemistry as shown. In certain cases the racemic compound has been separated into the individual enantiomers although the absolute stereochemistry of the single enantiomer s may not have been determined. In the table the individual separated enantiomers may be referred to as ENT 1 or ENT 2 which are abbreviations for the separated enantiomer 1 and enantiomer 2 respectively. It is to be understood that one of the compounds designated as ENT 1 or ENT 2 will have the R absolute stereochemistry at the chiral center while the other will have the S absolute stereochemistry.

2. Boronate ester 1 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole was used in the Suzuki reaction.

3. Conditions for analytical HPLC. Column Waters XBridge C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water Mobile phase B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile Gradient 5 B for 1.0 minute then 5 to 100 B over 5.75 minutes Flow rate 0.5 mL minute.

5. 1 N Sodium hydroxide solution was employed in the Suzuki reaction this served to remove the 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl protecting group.

6. In this case preparative HPLC purification was carried out using a 10 m Sunfire C 18 column Eluent 1 1 acetonitrile 0.1 formic acid in water .

9. Conditions for analytical HPLC. Column Waters XBridge C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m Mobile phase A 0.0375 trifluoroacetic acid in water Mobile phase B 0.01875 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile Gradient 1 to 5 B over 0.60 minutes then 5 to 100 B over 3.40 minutes Flow rate 0.8 mL minute.

10. Conditions for analytical HPLC as in footnote 9 except that the gradient employed was 10 to 100 B over 4.00 minutes.

11. The racemic product was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography. Column Chiral Technologies Chiralpak AD 5 m Eluent 68 32 carbon dioxide methanol.

12. This Example was the second eluting enantiomer from the supercritical fluid chromatographic separation.

13. Conditions for analytical HPLC. Column Waters XBridge C18 2.1 50 mm 5 m Mobile phase A 0.05 ammonium hydroxide in water Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 5 to 100 B over 3.40 minutes Flow rate 0.8 mL minute.

15. The racemic product was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography. Column Chiral Technologies Chiralpak AD 5 m Eluent 60 40 carbon dioxide methanol containing 0.05 diethylamine .

16. The racemic product was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography. Column Chiral Technologies Chiralpak AD 20 m Eluent 60 40 carbon dioxide ethanol containing 0.05 diethylamine .

17. This Example was the first eluting enantiomer from the supercritical fluid chromatographic separation.

18. The racemic product was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography. Column Chiral Technologies Chiralpak AS 5 m Eluent 60 40 carbon dioxide 2 propanol containing 0.05 diethylamine .

20. The requisite 2 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl morpholine may be prepared from 4 benzylmorpholine 2 carbonitrile using chemistry described by D. Sakai and K. Watanabe PCT Int. Appl. 2009 WO 2009035159 A1 20090319.

22. The requisite 2 6 methylpyridin 3 yl oxy methylmorpholine may be prepared via a Mitsunobu reaction between tert butyl 2 hydroxymethyl morpholine 4 carboxylate and 6 methylpyridin 3 ol followed by acidic removal of the protecting group.

23. 2 5 Difluoromethyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl methylmorpholine may be prepared in the following manner reaction of 4 benzylmorpholin 2 yl acetonitrile with hydroxylamine hydrochloride and base provides 2 4 benzylmorpholin 2 yl N hydroxyethanimidamide. Coupling of this compound with difluoroacetic acid may be carried out using any of a number of coupling reagents such as 1 3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. Subsequent cyclization using thermal conditions or tetrabutylammonium fluoride see A. R. Gangloff et al. 2001 42 1441 1443 followed by debenzylation provides the requisite amine.

24. Reaction of 4 benzylmorpholine 2 carbonitrile with hydroxylamine hydrochloride and sodium hydroxide provided 4 benzyl N hydroxymorpholine 2 carboximidamide which was condensed with cyclopropanecarboxylic acid using 1 3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. Cyclization using tetrabutylammonium fluoride see A. R. Gangloff et al. 2001 42 1441 1443 followed by debenzylation afforded 2 5 cyclopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl morpholine.

25. The requisite 3 morpholin 2 ylmethoxy benzonitrile may be prepared in a manner analogous to that described in footnote 22.

26. 2 Pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine may be prepared from 1 4 benzylmorpholin 2 yl ethanone via conversion to the enamine and reaction with 1 3 5 triazine see D. L. Boger et al. 1982 47 2673 2675 followed by debenzylation.

27. 2 5 Methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl methyl morpholine may be prepared via the chemistry described in footnote 23 by employing acetic acid in place of difluoroacetic acid.

28. Compound C20 was N alkylated with ethyl iodide and potassium tert butoxide at 30 C. in tetrahydrofuran. Deprotection was carried out using the procedure described in step 2 of Method C.

30. 2 Chloro 1 fluoro 3 iodo 4 methoxybenzene may be prepared by iodination of 2 chloro 1 fluoro 4 methoxybenzene according to the method of R. Sanz et al. 2007 72 5113 5118.

31. The racemic product was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography. Column Chiral Technologies Chiralpak AS 5 m Eluent 63 37 carbon dioxide methanol containing 0.05 ammonium hydroxide .

32. In this case potassium phosphate and 1 2 dimethoxyethane were used in place of sodium carbonate and 1 4 dioxane.

33. 5 Bromoimidazo 2 1 b 1 3 thiazole may be prepared via bromination of imidazo 2 1 b 1 3 thiazole using N bromosuccinimide.

34. The two enantiomers were separated by supercritical fluid chromatography. Example 213 was the second eluting enantiomer and Example 214 was the first eluting isomer using a Chiral Technologies Chiralcel OJ 3 column and gradient of 5 to 40 methanol in carbon dioxide containing 0.05 diethylamine.

35. In this case the Suzuki reaction was carried out using bis di tert butyl 4 dimethylaminophenyl phosphine dichloropalladium II and cesium fluoride in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane and water at 100 C. for 18 hours.

36. Treatment of 4 bromo 1 methyl 1H imidazole with lithium diisopropylamide and N N dimethylformamide provided 4 bromo 1 methyl 1H imidazole 2 carbaldehyde which was converted to the requisite 4 bromo 1 methyl 1H imidazole 2 carbonitrile via reaction with ammonium hydroxide and iodine according to the method of J. J. Shie and J. M. Fang 2007 72 3141 3144.

37. Conditions for analytical HPLC. Column Waters Atlantis dC18 4.6 50 mm 5 m Mobile phase A 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in water v v Mobile phase B 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5.0 to 95 B linear over 4.0 minutes Flow rate 2 mL minute.

38. Conditions for analytical HPLC. Column Waters XBridge C18 4.6 50 mm 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5.0 to 95 B linear over 4.0 minutes Flow rate 2 mL minute .

39. 3 Bromo 1 methyl 1H pyrazole 5 carbaldehyde was converted to 3 bromo 1 methyl 1H pyrazole 5 carbonitrile using the method of J. J. Shie and J. M. Fang see footnote 36.

40. Treatment of 4 benzylmorpholin 2 yl acetonitrile with ammonium cerium IV nitrate provided the requisite morpholin 2 ylacetonitrile.

LRRK2 kinase activity was measured using Lantha Screen technology from Invitrogen. GST tagged truncated LRRK2 from Invitrogen Cat PV4874 was incubated with a fluorescein labeled peptide substrate based upon ezrin radixin moesin ERM also known as LRRKtide Invitrogen cat PR8976A in the presence of a dose response of compound. Upon completion the assay was stopped and detected with a terbium labeled anti phospho ERM antibody Invitrogen cat PR8975A . The assay was carried out under the following protocol 3 L of a working solution of substrate 233 nM LRRKtide 117 M ATP prepared in assay buffer 50 mM HEEPES pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl with 2 mM DTT and 0.01 Brij35 added fresh was added to a low volume Greiner 384 well plate. The compound dose response was prepared by diluting compound to a top concentration of 3.16 mM in 100 DMSO and serial diluted by half log in DMSO 11 times. Aliquots 3.5 L of the 100 DMSO dose response were mixed with 46.5 L water then 1 L of this mixture was added to the 3 L substrate mix in the 384 well plate. The kinase reaction was started with 3 L of a working solution of LRRK2 enzyme at a concentration of 4 g mL. The final reaction concentrations were 100 nM LRRKtide 50 M ATP 1.7 g mL LRRK2 enzyme and a compound dose response with a top dose of 32 M. The reaction was allowed to progress at room temperature for two hours and then stopped with the addition of 7 L of detection buffer 20 mM Tris pH 7.6 0.01 NP 40 0.02 NaN 6 mM EDTA with 2 nM terbium labeled anti phospho ERM . After an incubation of 1 hour at room temperature the plate was read on an Envision with an excitation wavelength of 340 nm and a reading emission at both 520 nm and 495 nm. The ratio of the 520 nm and 495 nm emission was used to analyze the data.

Inhibition of mutant G2019S LRRK2 Invitrogen cat PV4881 was measured in the exact same method. All final concentrations of substrate ATP and enzyme were the same. However since the mutant enzyme is more active the reaction time was reduced to 90 minutes to ensure that inhibition was measured at steady state before any substrate depletion could occur.

Certain of the compounds of the present invention were assessed for kinase selectivity using a commercially available ActiveX targeted kinase probe in which the tissue employed was human peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC . The test compounds were provided to ActivX Biosciences Inc. 11025 North Torrey Pines Road Suite 120 LaJolla Calif. USA 92037. The compounds were run in the ActivX proprietary kinase assay and results were obtained at compound test concentrations of 1 M columns 2 4 and 6 and 0.1 M columns 3 5 and 7 . The results as percent inhibition obtained for the compounds of Examples 1 4 and 217 are provided below in Table 3.

