---

title: Multiple cloud marketplace aggregation
abstract: A processor replicates a request for a computer resource to a plurality of clouds, and updates a repository in view of resource offerings received from the plurality of clouds. The repository stores resource and service data for each cloud. The processor identifies resource and service data in the repository that match information specified in the request in view of the updated repository, and provides information to a requesting entity indicating resource and service data in the repository satisfy the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407572&OS=09407572&RS=09407572
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09407572
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150420
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 324 758 filed Nov. 26 2008 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present teachings relate to systems and methods for multiple cloud marketplace aggregation and more particularly to platforms and techniques for generating responses to resource requests from a collective set of cloud based marketplaces and selecting from those combined offerings to instantiate or update a virtual machine or other entity.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application. Another type of software entity that has found certain application in certain spaces is software appliances which generally speaking can represent relatively self contained software installations including full or customized partial operating system installations combined with selected applications in a single installation or update package.

Currently when a user desires to can lease or subscribe to the set of resources the user may request the set of resources based on their service level requirements and then receive a price for the request from a cloud marketplace system. Currently no mechanism exists to permit those resource requests to be distributed to multiple cloud marketplace systems to widen the range of available options or create the opportunity for redundancy in the sources for those requested resources. Thus there is a need in the art for methods and systems that provide an ability to distribute or fan out a resource request to multiple cloud marketplace systems or platforms and aggregate the resulting resource offerings to select a set of sources best suited to the requesting entity s needs.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for multiple cloud marketplace aggregation. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques for multiple marketplace aggregation in which a request for resources to instantiate or update a requesting entity can be transmitted to an aggregation engine. The aggregation engine can be configured to receive the resource request and replicate or transmit that request to a set of marketplace systems or platforms. The multiple marketplace systems can each communicate with a set of clouds from which processor memory software or other resources can be requested and extracted. In embodiments the aggregation engine can comprise a separate server or in embodiments can be incorporated in a marketplace system.

The set of marketplace systems can respond to the replicated resource request with an indication of the resources that one or more of their constituent clouds are prepared to offer and deliver to the requesting virtual machine or other requesting entity. In embodiments the aggregation engine can employ selection logic to select one or more resource offerings from the set of marketplace systems and provide those resources to the requesting virtual machine or other entity. In embodiments a systems administrator or other user can manually select the desired marketplace sources from amongst the competing offerings. The aggregation engine can in embodiments select multiple more than one marketplace system to satisfy the request for resources for instance to stagger the marketplace systems from which resources will be drawn at different times.

Embodiments of the present teachings thereby relate to systems and methods which operate in a marketplace environment based on cloud computing networks. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a cloud marketplace system provides details on the resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments to allow users to evaluate the resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments in relation to the specific requirements of desired applications and or software appliances.

According to embodiments in general the overall cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with multiple cloud computing environments in order to ascertain the details for the resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments. In particular the cloud marketplace system can be configured to retrieve from the cloud computing environments resource and service data which describes the capabilities services status and cost of the cloud computing environment. The resource and service data can include computing resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments computing resources and services available in the cloud computing environments at particular time periods cost data for computing resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments and status data for the cloud computing environments at particular time periods.

In embodiments in order to acquire the resource and service data the cloud marketplace system can be configured to request the resource and service data from cloud management systems located in the cloud computing environments. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the resources of the cloud computing environments directly in order to obtain the resource and service data.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to maintain a repository for the resource and service data in order to provide the marketplace for the cloud computing environments. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to update the repository periodically to maintain current resource and service data for the cloud computing environments. Likewise when providing the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can obtain the resource and service data on demand and directly from the cloud computing environments.

In embodiments to provide the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can be configured to receive a request for information pertaining to the resources or services provided by or available in the cloud computing environments. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to search the repository for resource and service data relating to the request. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to obtain the resource and service data directly from the cloud computing environments. Once located the cloud marketplace system can be configured to generate a marketplace report detailing the resource and service data matching the request. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to provide the report to initiator of the request.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to utilize the resource and service data to provide migration services for virtual machines initiated in the cloud computing environments. In particular for a particular virtual machine or machines the cloud marketplace system can be configured to receive a request to monitor the resource and service data of the cloud computing environments for the occurrence of a particular event. The event can occur when a portion of the resource and service data reaches a threshold value received in the request to migrate. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to monitor the cloud computing environments in order to determine when the resources or services data indicates the occurrence of the event. Upon occurrence of the event the cloud marketplace system can be configured to migrate the virtual machine or machines to a new cloud computing environment with the resources and services data matching the event.

By providing a marketplace for the services and resources of cloud computing environments users can perform efficient cost accounting for shopping for and migrations of existing and planned workloads to the best possible cloud computing environment. As such the user can locate and find the best priced and best quality service for their intended applications and or software appliances. Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present teachings which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Where possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet Protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the clouds in order to ascertain the details for the resources and services provided by the clouds . In particular the cloud marketplace system can be configured to retrieve from the clouds resource and service data which describes the capabilities services status and cost of the clouds . The resource and service data can include data detailing computing resources and services provided by the clouds computing resources and services available in the clouds at particular time periods cost for the services provided by the clouds and status for the clouds at particular time periods.

In embodiments the data detailing the computing resources and services provided by the clouds can include resource data specifying the sets of resources servers contained in the clouds and the computing resources provided by the sets of resources servers computing cycles bandwidth memory storage . Additionally the data detailing the computing resources and services provided by the clouds can include service data specifying particular services provided by the clouds such as identity management services cloud management services application and appliance building services and the like.

In embodiments the data detailing the computing resources and services available in the clouds at particular time periods can include data specifying computing resources and services available in the clouds current or at some future time. Additionally the data detailing the computing resources and services available in the clouds at particular time periods can include data specifying service level agreements for the cloud for a period of time.

In embodiments the data detailing the cost for the resources and services provided by the clouds can include data such as the cost for subscription to the clouds the cost for usage of the resources and services of the clouds and discounts of the costs based on the usage. For example the cost for usage can include the cost for the resources consumed to support the virtual machines and can include the cost for the utilization of the virtual machines by the user or third parties. These can include the cost for the instantiated time of the virtual machines the computing resource consumed by the virtual machines computing cycles bandwidth the time frame of the computing resource consumption peak time off peak time and combinations thereof. The cost data can include cost data for a current time or cost data for resources and services in the future.

In embodiments the data detailing the status for the clouds at particular time periods can include data specifying the resources and services current being utilized in the clouds . For example the status data can include virtual machines currently instantiated in the clouds and the computing resources of the sets of resources servers computing cycles bandwidth memory storage currently utilized.

In embodiments in order to acquire the resource and service data the cloud marketplace system can be configured to request the resource and service data from cloud management systems located in the clouds . Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the set of resource servers directly in order to obtain the resource and service data . The cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the clouds via network or any other available public or private network. In particular marketplace engine can be configured to communicate with the clouds .

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to maintain a repository for the resource and service data in order to provide the marketplace for the clouds . In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to maintain the repository . The repository can be configured in any format to allow the resource and service data to be stored and retrieved. For example the repository can be configured in any type of proprietary or open source database format. The repository can include a record for each cloud that includes various searchable data fields for storing the resource and service data for that particular cloud.

The cloud marketplace system can be configured to update the repository periodically to maintain current resource and service data for the clouds . Likewise when providing the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can be configured to obtain the resource and service data on demand and directly from the clouds .

In embodiments to provide the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can be configured receive a request for information pertaining to the resources or services provided by or available in the clouds . For example an initiator may request information on clouds that can provide a certain level of computing resources at a specific cost during a specific time period. The initiator may request the information in order to see all available resources of the clouds that may meet the initiator s requirements. As such the request can include the information regarding the resources desired by the initiator. This can include the desired computing resources the time period for the resources the duration of the resources the cost of the resources services provided by the cloud the availability of the resources and the like.

In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to communicate with the initiator of the request via API . API can be configured to generate GUIs e.g. dialog boxes web pages as required by marketplace engine and to provide an interface for receiving requests. The initiator of the request can be a user desiring utilization of the clouds or the cloud management systems of the clouds .

Once the request is received the cloud marketplace system can be configured to search the repository for resource and service data relating to the request. In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to access the repository stored in marketplace store and search the repository for resource and service data matching the request. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to obtain the resource and service data directly from the clouds .

Once located the cloud marketplace system can be configured to generate a marketplace report detailing the resource and service data matching the request. For example the marketplace report can include a list of clouds matching the request alone with the data detailing computing resources and services provided by the matching clouds computing resources and services available in the matching clouds at particular time periods specified in the request cost for the services and resources requested and status for the matching clouds at particular time periods specified in the request.

In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to extract the matching resource and service data from repository . Marketplace engine can be configured to arrange the matching resource and service data in marketplace report .

After generating the marketplace report the cloud marketplace system can be configured to provide the marketplace report to the initiator of the request. In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to provide the marketplace report via API .

Once the report is received the initiator or the user can make a determination on which resources of the clouds to utilize. This can include utilizing resources from a single cloud or resources from multiple clouds . For example the initiator can select one or more clouds with which to instantiate a virtual machine or machines. The initiator can make a request for the resources directly to the clouds . Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to receive the initiator s requests for resources and forward the request to the clouds or reserve the resources directly.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to utilize the resource and service data to provide automatic migration services for virtual machines initiated in the clouds . In particular the migration engine can be configured to contain control logic for performing the migration processes and for communicating with the clouds API and marketplace store .

In embodiments for a particular virtual machine or machines instantiated in one of the clouds the cloud marketplace system can be configured to receive a request to monitor the resource and service data of the clouds for the occurrence of a particular event. The event can be the occurrence of a particular resource or service becoming available in a cloud . The event can be occur when a portion of the resource and service data reaches a threshold value received in the request to migrate. For example a user can request that the cloud marketplace system migrate a virtual machine or machines when a particular computing resources at a specified cost becomes available in one of the clouds .

In particular the migration engine can be configured to communicate with the user or the initiator of the request via API . API can be configured to generate GUls e.g. dialog boxes web pages as required by migration engine and to provide an interface for receiving requests.

To migrate the virtual machine or machines the cloud marketplace system can be configured to monitor the clouds in order to determine when the resources or services data indicates the occurrence of the event. In particular the migration engine can be configured to periodically search the repository for the resources and services data matching event. Likewise the migration engine can be configured to obtain the resource and service data periodically directly from the clouds .

Upon occurrence of the event the cloud marketplace system can be configured to migrate the virtual machine or machines to a new cloud with the resources and services data matching the event. For example the cloud marketplace system can determine that a new cloud has resources or services available that match the user s request and can migrate the virtual machines to the new cloud . In particular the migration engine can be configured send an instruction to the cloud currently instantiating the virtual machine or machines to migrate the virtual machine or machines to the new cloud . The instruction can include an identification of the virtual machine or machines and an identification of the new cloud . Likewise the migration engine can be configured to retrieve the virtual machine or machines from the cloud currently instantiating the virtual machine or machines and pass the virtual machine or machines to the new cloud for instantiation.

Once migrated the cloud marketplace system can be configured to notify the user or initiator of the migration. In particular migration engine can be configured to notify the user or initiator via API .

The aggregation engine can receive the resource request and decode that request to determine the corresponding hardware software network input output I O and or other resources necessary to satisfy the request. Aggregation engine can in turn transmit a set of replicated requests to marketplace systems within a set of multiple cloud marketplaces . In embodiments as shown each individual marketplace system can likewise in turn communicate with a set of clouds to identify resources available with those cloud networks to potentially satisfy the resource request . After interrogating associated clouds in set of clouds each individual marketplace system can generate a set of resource offerings representing the hardware software network input output and or other resources that particular marketplace system along with its associated set of clouds is prepared to delivery to the requesting entity. Each marketplace system can transmit the set of resource offerings to aggregation engine . It may be noted that although a configuration is illustrated in in which aggregation engine communicates with set of multiple cloud marketplaces in a generally parallel configuration in various embodiments the individual marketplace systems can be arranged in a serial configuration in a mixed serial parallel configuration or in other configurations. In embodiments the individual marketplace systems can be configured in multiple layers or levels likewise in various parallel serial mixed serial parallel and or other configurations.

Aggregation engine can receive the various sets of resource offerings and examine that information to determine which marketplace system s and associated set s of clouds will be utilized to supply the resources specified in the resource request . Aggregation engine can host selection logic to select between the various sets of resource offerings . Selection logic can for example identify resources most closely matching a requested service level agreement SLA or other hardware software network input output I O and or other resources or factors. Selection logic can incorporate selection based on cost factors. Selection logic can likewise base selection of resources on scheduled resource availability and can for example sequence or stagger individual marketplace systems to supply different resources at different times. Other selection criteria are possible.

After identifying the marketplace system s from set of multiple marketplace systems aggregation engine can manage the instantiation and or delivery of the constituent resources to the requesting entity ies in set of requesting entities . For example aggregation engine and or other logic can instantiate access transmit or otherwise provide hardware software network input output I O and or resources to the requesting entity. The result of the resource delivery can be for example the instantiation or updating of a virtual machine including for example virtual clients and or software appliances as well as the installation of one or more software applications the delivery of data the provisioning of service level agreements SLAs or other cloud activity.

While illustrates the cloud marketplace system as a standalone system comprises a combination of hardware and software the cloud marketplace system can also be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by a convention computer platform. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the cloud marketplace system can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language.

Additionally as illustrated in the cloud marketplace system can be a standalone system capable of being access by or controlled by a user or initiator of the marketplace and migration processes. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be integrated into one or more of the clouds . Additionally the cloud marketplace system can be integrated into one or more of the systems of the clouds such as the cloud management systems.

In the aggregation engine can generate and transmit a set of replicated resource requests to a set of multiple cloud marketplaces . In embodiments set of multiple cloud marketplaces can contain multiple marketplace systems which in embodiments can be of similar or diverse type capability and or location. In the marketplace systems of the set of multiple cloud marketplaces can generate a set of resource offerings and transmit those offerings to aggregation engine . In the aggregation engine can apply selection logic to the set of resource offerings to identify the resources and marketplace s that will be invoked to satisfy the resource request . In embodiments selection logic can examine set of resource offerings to select resources marketplace s and or cloud s based on criteria such as subscription or other cost processing performance service availability under a service level agreement SLA and or other factors. In embodiments in addition to or instead of selection logic a user can supply input to select from among the set of resource offerings .

In the selected resources can be transmitted from and or instantiated via aggregation engine and associated cloud resources to the one or more requesting entities in set of requesting entities . In the selected marketplace s cloud s and or other resources can be updated as appropriate for example as a result of a change in one or more marketplace systems and or receipt of a new or updated resource request . In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which a single aggregation engine supports the resource requests of a set of requesting entities in embodiments multiple aggregation engines servers or logic can communicate with the set of requesting entities to build virtual machines or other objects from resources produced by the set of multiple cloud marketplaces . Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

