---

title: Reducing photo-tagging spam
abstract: A photo spam detector detects illegitimate non-natively captured images through extracting image features and feeding the extracted features into a probabilistic model. The probabilistic model categorizes the photo as legitimate or illegitimate. Requests to tag one or more users in a photo are analyzed by a tag analyzer that assesses relationships between the tag requests themselves, social relationships between the tagged users, and the presence or absence of faces within the regions specified by the tag requests. Based on the classification of images or tags as illegitimate, a social networking system applies one or more social media distribution policies to the image or tags to suppress or prohibit distribution.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485204&OS=09485204&RS=09485204
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09485204
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150213
---
This application is a divisional under 35 U.S.C. 121 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 099 014 filed 2 May 2011.

The present disclosure relates generally to social networking websites and other systems in which users can form connections with other users and in particular reducing malicious behavior or spam related to photos or other media hosted on the social network and the tagging thereof.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent in recent years. In particular social networking websites allow users to communicate information more efficiently. For example a user may post contact information background information job information hobbies and or other user specific data to a location associated with the user on a social networking website. Other users can then review the posted data by browsing user profiles or searching for profiles including specific data. Social networking websites also allow users to associate themselves with other users thus creating a web of connections among the users of social networking website. These connections among the users can be leveraged by the website to offer more relevant information to each user in view of the users own stated interests in their connections.

A system such as a website that allows users to interact with the system typically stores a record for each users of the system. These records may comprise information provided by the user as well as information gathered by the system related to activities or actions of the user on the system. For example a system may require a user to enter information such as contact information gender preferences interests and the like in an initial interaction with the system which is stored in the user s record. A user s activities on the system such as frequency of access of particular information on the system also provide information that can be stored in the user s record. The system may then use information provided by the user and information gathered about the user to customize interactions of the system with the user. For example a website selling books may keep track of a users previous purchases and provide the user with information on related books during subsequent interactions with the system. Information in a user s profile may also be used by the system to target sponsored stories that are of interest to the user.

Users interacting with the social network may produce stories either intentionally or by some activity to a live activity stream such as a news feed. A news feed is a data format typically used for revealing new and topical content. A social networking system may segment the content of the live activity stream into various views possibly by specific subject matter or topic and or other users. Photos posted by the friends of a certain user or photos tagged of a certain user by his or her friends may be a view of a the user s news feed. In addition certain actions such as being tagged in a photo may through the above means be delivered to the user in the form of an event notification.

Certain malicious users or applications may distribute their content by uploading illegitimate photos excessively tagging them or tagging legitimate photos with false tags.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present disclosure for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Particular embodiments relate to a social networking environment including a social networking system and related systems that integrate individual stories status updates and user interactions with an advertising system. A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Once they are members of the social network the users may interact with the social network itself by posting stories and status messages on their own page other users by commenting posting stories etc. on other users pages or with non user entities such as fan pages that they subscribe to online deals they redeem or subscribe to or locations that they check in to.

In particular users may post photos to the social network that are subsequently displayed on their friends newsfeeds. Users may also tag their friends in photos which appear as a notification to the tagged friend as well as in the newsfeed of the tagged friend s friends. Some users may seek to leverage this mechanism to distribute social media through manual or automated tagging of images that are of low value to users of the social networking system. For example a common tactic for party promoters is to upload an image of a party flyer and tag all their friends either manually or through an automated script regardless of whether their friends are included in the image. Such actions may be suppressed through rate limiting and other policy based implementation. Implementations of the present disclosure extend these concepts by allowing the social networking system to extract features from the image and probabilistically calculate whether the image is a legitimate natively captured image such as one taken from a camera or a illegitimate non natively captured image such as generated by an application an advertisement or a flyer . Other embodiments are readily envisioned by the disclosure and are described in detail below.

In one embodiment the user device is used by a user initiating the actions being monitored by the server . The user device is used by a recipient of the monitored actions. User devices and may each be any suitable computing device such as a mobile device a mobile phone a cell phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant a notebook computer a laptop computer or a hand held game console.

The communication module may be used to communicate with user devices and . The accounts module monitors and or receives actions from user devices such as user device . In particular embodiments accounts module also stores profile information for each particular user. Actions from user device that affect other user devices such as user device are time stamped and the type of action is recorded in memory .

The policy module stores one or more policies which determine whether a user s actions are objectionable. A policy may be represented by a type of action or a combination of actions and a time dependent function. Such functions may be linear exponential polynomial or step functions functions of acceleration i.e. a function of time squared or any other function that can be used to measure user activity over time. In various embodiments a representative curve of the policy threshold has an initial steep slope that gradually decreases over time. Particular embodiments of the disclosure pertain to classification or decision functions that map particular inputs with respect to time to a set of actions.

The policy may have different thresholds of violation for different degrees of the same type of action e.g. a warning threshold which results in some warning to the offending user and a suspension threshold which removes rights from the user. A suspension may be temporary for example for hours days or months or may require a system operator to reactivate a user s account prior to further actions. A suspension may help curtail spammers from abusing the social network. In various embodiments the time of a temporary suspension is extended if a user attempts to repeat the type of action that resulted in suspension of the account.

The violation module determines whether a user has violated the policy. The violation module compares the number and type of actions recorded by the accounts module with the policy stored in the policy module . Upon reaching a threshold the violation module may respond by requesting the communication module to issue a warning to the user and or by altering a user record in the database to suspend the user s account.

The server may include memory to store applications or modules and other information. Photo spam detector residing on server includes instructions embodied in software code operable to detect illegitimate photos and illegitimate photo tagging operations and suppress the delivery of such photos or tags. Photo spam detector is operably connected to photo store and may access information stored in accounts module and policy module . In some embodiments applications modules and or database may reside in memory on several servers not shown .

The various features extracted by image feature extraction module may give photo spam detector insight as to whether the image in question is a legitimate natively captured image or an illegitimate non natively captured image. In particular embodiments color histograms may provide useful insights. Images with large regions of unnatural colors such as pure black or pure white are less likely to be natively captured images. These images in particular embodiments are much more likely to be computer generated graphics like the example image of . In particular embodiments the color distribution lends insight into the legitimacy of the image. For example even where a clever spammer may utilize a color gradient as a background the linearity of the gradient along any given axis or distance may indicate that the image is illegitimate. Images with linear gradients are much less likely to be captured natively. In particular embodiments edge detection may be utilized to score the legitimacy of the image. For example natural images do not have clear well defined outlines as line art does. Even where images possess clear outlines such as for a black building against a blue sky the edges are poorly aliased and differ significantly from computer generated images. In particular embodiments higher compression ratios may indicate a lower probability of the image being legitimate. Natural photographs tend to compress poorly whereas graphics with large unbroken regions of a solid color compress well. In particular embodiments the aspect ratio may indicate whether an image is a legitimate natively captured image. For example cameras tend to have standard aspect ratios such as 4 3 or 16 9. Images generated by applications may have different non camera aspect ratios. Images having such ratios are far more likely to be illegitimate rather than natively captured.

In particular embodiments photo spam detector may also extract metadata such as exchangeable image file format EXIF data from the image itself. This EXIF data is of little use in and of itself because it is a relatively elementary task to fake EXIF data. However the concurrence between the EXIF data and the image properties may be useful in determining the legitimacy of the image. In particular embodiments discrepancies between the extracted image features and the EXIF data may indicate that the image is illegitimate. For example if the aspect ratio or pixel dimensions indicated by the EXIF data differs from the actual uploaded image the image is more likely to be illegitimate. Methods of verifying consistency between the EXIF data and image data are not limited to dimensions. In particular embodiments specialized image feature extraction modules may extract particular features to verify against certain metadata. For example photos show with low apertures such as F 2 and below should be blurry in one area and focused in another. Edge detection algorithms may be used to detect increased areas of aliasing to verify that one area is sharp and others are blurry. Conversely photos taken with a high aperture such as F 10 and above should be essentially completely in focus. Increased aliasing in one area may indicate inconsistency between the EXIF aperture data and the actual image. This disclosure contemplates any suitable algorithm or methodology for verifying concurrence between metadata and image characteristics.

Features extracted by image feature extraction module are fed into probabilistic model . Probabilistic model receives the extracted image features as inputs and from those inputs calculates a probability as to whether the image from which the features were extracted is a legitimate natively captured image or an illegitimate image. Probabilistic model may be any suitable type of machine learning application. In particular embodiments probabilistic model comprises a neural network. In particular embodiments probabilistic model is a support vector regression SVR . When utilizing an SVR an initial training set of any number of legitimate and illegitimate images may be fed into the machine from which the machine learns what extracted features are more likely to be legitimate images or illegitimate images. In particular embodiments the probabilistic model is a nonlinear classifier. In particular embodiments the SVR may be multiclass. In particular embodiments the training of the probabilistic model may be supervised or unsupervised. In particular embodiments probabilistic model may be subject to feedback from users. For example users may flag images as illegitimate. When such an event occurs it is added to the training set and probabilistic model is updated. In particular embodiments the probabilistic model creates one or more probability density functions PDFs that determine the probability an image is illegitimate for a given input feature. This disclosure contemplates any suitable machine learning algorithm or application for implementing probabilistic model .

Photo spam detector in particular embodiments also includes OCR optical character recognition module . Illegitimate images often contain large blocks of text. In particular embodiments OCR module may search the image in question for large blocks of text and flag the image as less likely to be legitimate based upon this detection. While the existence of text blocks in images is not dispositive of its legitimacy for example a legitimate natively captured image may include captured text contained in real life signage. However in particular embodiments the disparity of the signage from the rest of the image i.e. sharply aliased significantly different gamma value placement etc. may indicate that the image is illegitimate. This disclosure contemplates any manner of combining other extracted image features with optical character recognition to calculate the probability that an image containing blocks of text is illegitimate.

Photo spam detector also includes tag analyzer module . Tag analyzer module may process any set of requests to tag a photo. In particular embodiments tag analyzer module is run concurrently with image feature extraction module . In particular embodiments it is run separately from image feature extraction module . Tag analyzer module may access accounts module . In particular embodiments tag analyzer module monitors the temporal rate that the tag requests are received. For example if the tags are received substantially simultaneously or under a predetermined threshold from each other such as 3 10 of a second its likely that the tags are auto generated by an application and constitute spam. In particular embodiments tag analyzer module analyzes the relationship between the users associated with the tags to determine the likelihood that the tags are spam. For example if the tag requests are received in alphabetical order by username either first or last there is a high likelihood that the tags were automatically generated by an application or script and constitute spam. In other embodiments tag analyzer module accesses social relationship information about the users associated with the tag requests from accounts module . Tag analyzer module may take into account coefficient scores between the set of users tagged. Coefficient scores may be calculated based on any number of variables. For example increased interaction between any two users may result in a higher coefficient score lending to the inference that the two are closer real world friends. Similarly a large number of mutual friends may increase the coefficient score. Methods for calculating coefficient scores between two or more users are well known. Regardless of how the coefficient scores are calculated once tag analyzer module obtains coefficient scores between each of the set of tagged users tag analyzer may calculate the probability that the image is legitimate based on the coefficient scores. For example a set of users with coefficient scores below a predetermined threshold indicating that the users are not very close friends in real life are less likely to be tagged in the same photo. Thus the probability the tags are spam is increased.

In particular embodiments photo spam detector includes facial recognition module . Facial recognition module applies one or more face recognition algorithms to detect the existence of faces in the image. Because requests to tag the photo delineate a bounded region of the photo photo tags lacking a face with the region are more likely to be spam tags. In particular embodiments facial recognition module searches for a face within each region designated by each tag request submitted on an image. If no face is detected within the region the tag request is more likely to be spam. In particular embodiments facial recognition module searches the region defined by each tag for a unique face. For example a spammer may tag the same individual face multiple times. The requirement that each face be unique or at a minimum not the exact face detected in another tag region to be legitimate accounts for this particular method of spamming.

Photo spam detector module upon analyzing image extracts multiple image features that increase the probability of categorizing image as illegitimate. For example in particular embodiments image feature extraction module may detect background as an unnaturally large region of a single color. The probability that image is illegitimate increases if background is of an unnatural color such as absolute black or white. Even if background comprises a gradient the linearity of the gradient will be detected and flagged by image feature extraction module . In particular embodiments image feature extraction module also detects the harsh shift between background and advertisement . Such shifts rarely occur in natively captured photos and as such increase the probability that image is illegitimate.

In particular embodiments edge detection algorithms may detect the hard perfectly aliased edges bordering each profile photo . In particular embodiments edge detection algorithms may also note the orientation of the edges around profile pictures i.e. that they are perfectly perpendicular and perfectly oriented with the edges of the image at 0 and 90 degrees . Perfectly oriented edges in particular embodiments increase the probability that the image is illegitimate. OCR module may also detect text and and based on the detection probabilistic module may decrease the probability that image is legitimate.

At Step photo spam detector through image feature extraction module extracts relevant features from the image. Image feature extraction module at step passes the extracted features as inputs to probabilistic model . Probabilistic model may calculate a probability score that the image is legitimate or illegitimate based on extracted image features. Alternatively probabilistic model may classify in two categories legitimate or illegitimate. Obviously in such an embodiment Steps are obviated.

At Step photo spam detector compares the output of probabilistic model with a predetermined threshold probability contained in policy module . If the probability that the image is illegitimate is lower than the threshold value the image is classified at Step as a legitimate image. At step if the probability the image is illegitimate exceeds the predetermined threshold the image is classified as illegitimate and one or more social distribution policies are applied to the image.

Photo Spam detector may apply any number of social media distribution policies. In particular embodiments one policy suppresses the distribution of the photo. For example if a user or application attempts to upload an illegitimate photo the photo is rejected and cannot be uploaded. In particular embodiments one policy suppresses notification of the photo. For example a user may be allowed to upload an illegitimate photo but it will not appear in any of his or her friends news feeds nor on the wall of a user or fan page where the user uploaded the photo. In particular embodiments one social distribution policy prohibits all actions on an image that has been classified as illegitimate. For example users may not tag comment on or otherwise interact with the photo. In particular embodiments one policy allows actions on the illegitimate photo but suppresses notifications of such actions. For example users may tag an illegitimate photo but the tags will not show up in any newsfeeds nor will notifications be sent to the tagged users. In particular embodiments one policy slows down the typeahead procedure facilitating tagging. For example in particular embodiments as a user types the name of another user he or she wishes to tag a typeahead feature automatically displays a list of users whose username matches the typed string. One social media distribution policy disables this typeahead feature for illegitimate images increasing the time and effort required to tag the photo.

In particular embodiments one social media distribution policy is to spoof acceptance of the illegitimate image. To the user who uploaded the illegitimate image the social networking system appears to be functioning completely normally i.e. the image is successfully uploaded the user may tag the image and other users may tag the image. However the social networking system only displays the image to the uploading user. It is suppressed from the newsfeed of all the user s friends it does not appear on the wall of a user or place the uploading user uploaded to and none of the tagging operations generate stories or notifications. Thus the uploading user or application believes the illegitimate image and operations thereon are being distributed but they are in reality suppressed from all other users of the social network.

At Step facial recognition module searches the region delineated by each individual tag for a face as described above. In particular embodiments facial recognition module utilizes commercially available face libraries. In particular embodiments facial recognition module utilizes a face library built from the profile pictures of users of the social network. Facial recognition module searches for tag regions lacking a face and increases the probability that the tag is spam when a face cannot be detected. In particular embodiments if facial recognition module detects a face in a region delineated by a tag request facial recognition module searches if the same face has been tagged in the photo and if so increases the probability that the tag is spam. In particular embodiments this is achieved through comparing the regions specified by the tags themselves. For example if only one face is detected in two different tag regions and the regions cover substantially the same coordinate areas of the image facial recognition module may assume they have tagged the same individual face twice.

At Step tag analyzer assesses the relationship between the tags themselves. In particular embodiments tag analyzer determines whether the tags were received within a predetermined period of time from each other and marks them as spam if they were received below that threshold period. In particular embodiments tag analyzer determines whether the tags are received in any sequential order such as in alphabetical order by username. This disclosure contemplates all suitable methods of analyzing the relationship between photo tag requests.

At Step tag analyzer assesses social factors between the users associated with the tags. As described above tag analyzer may determine that photo tag requests tagging a set of users with low social coefficients between each other are more likely to be spam tags. In particular embodiments other social factors such as distance current location and if available if the users were checked in to disparate locations at the time the photo was taken or uploaded. This disclosure contemplates any method of social factor analysis of the relationship between the users associated with the tag requests to determine whether the tags are spam.

At Step tag analyzer combines the factors determined in to determine a probability that the tags are spam. The probability is compared to a predetermined threshold in Step and stored in policy module . If the probability is below the threshold the tags are categorized as legitimate and allowed in Step . If they exceed the predetermined threshold photo spam detector applies one or more social distribution policies at Step . Although depicts steps as being performed in a particular sequential order this disclosure envisions any ordering of steps . Furthermore steps need not be performed in series this disclosure envisions all manners of parallel or sequential processing of Steps .

Photo Spam detector may apply any number of social distribution policies. In particular embodiments one policy suppresses tagging operations. For example once tag requests have been classified as spam they are simply denied. In particular embodiments one policy allows tagging but suppresses notifications of such actions. For example users may tag an illegitimate photo but notifications of the tags will not show up in any newsfeeds nor will notifications be sent to the tagged users. In particular embodiments one policy slows down the typeahead procedure facilitating tagging. For example in particular embodiments as a user types the name of another user he or she wishes to tag a typeahead feature automatically displays a list of users whose username matches the typed string. One social media distribution policy disables this typeahead feature for illegitimate images increasing the time and effort required to tag the photo.

In particular embodiments one social media distribution policy is to spoof acceptance of the tag requests. For example the tags appear to be accepted to the tagging user or application and are displayed on the photo in the view displayed to the tagging user but are not displayed elsewhere. As a further extension of this spoofing policy if user A tags user B with a spam tag when user A views photos of user B the image containing the spam tag will be displayed to user A and user A alone. No other user will see the photo containing the spam tag when viewing photos of user B. Thus user A has no way of verifying if his spam was distributed.

In particular social networking environments when a user tags another user in a photo the tagged user is sent an event notification and the social networking system displays a story describing the tagging operation in the news feed of all the tagged user s first degree contacts Spam tags disseminate low value information or misinformation to users of the social network thereby degrading their social networking experience. Applying one or more of the social media distribution policies as described above suppresses the distribution of irrelevant or low value spam thereby greatly enhancing the social networking experience for users.

Additionally spammers are often very quick to adapt their spamming methods so as to bypass or circumvent spam detection filters. The spoofing mechanism as described above reduces the probability spammers realize their content is suppressed even if the spammer logs in from another account and realizes that his or her media is suppressed it is difficult for the spammer to determine what behavior is triggering the application of the social media distribution policies.

Thus the disclosed methods may detect both images that are illegitimate as well as tags that are illegitimate to prevent distribution of spam or spam like promotions. The two methods may be run on all images simultaneously or at the time tag requests are received on a particular image to effectively filter a multitude of spam like actions. In particular embodiments the image legitimacy method is applied upon upload and the tag analysis is performed any time tag requests are received on the image. In this way all methods of photo tag spam may be detected and suppressed. For example the image of could possibly pass the tag spam detection method of if the tags were received an acceptable duration apart from each other in no particular order and the members tagged had a sufficient social relevance coefficient between them. However image would not pass the image legitimacy test of . Conversely image of could pass the image legitimacy test of if it were a natively captured image from a camera. However it would not pass the tag analysis of . Thus the disclosed methods may detect and suppress legitimate images with spam tags illegitimate images with legitimate tags as well as illegitimate images with spam tags.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. For example although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network system it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and even if it is not provided through a website. Any computer based system that provides social networking functionality can be used in accordance with the present invention even if it relies for example on e mail instant messaging or other form of peer to peer communications and any other technique for communicating between users. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system network protocol format or application.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing environments the server or computing systems described below provide example computing system architectures for didactic rather than limiting purposes.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described as operating in connection with a social network system the present invention can be used in connection with any communications facility that allows for communication of messages between users such as an email hosting site. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

