---

title: Rights management services integration with mobile device management
abstract: Rights management services (RMS) integration with mobile device management (MDM) may be provided. A functionality associated with a document may be restricted according to a document management policy. After the document has been transmitted to a receiving device, a request to un-restrict the at least one functionality associated with the document may be received. If it is determined that the receiving device complies with the document management policy, the functionality associated with the document may be un-restricted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516066&OS=09516066&RS=09516066
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09516066
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150604
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 895 739 entitled RIGHTS MANAGEMENT SERVICES INTEGRATION WITH MOBILE DEVICE MANAGEMENT filed May 16 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Administrators of devices such as cell phones and laptops often install security features to prevent the accidental sharing or loss of important data. Such measures may include mobile device management profiles that require various security settings such as a passcode or password to be enabled on the device before confidential or proprietary resources can be accessed. However in some situations the user s device may comply with the security requirements but the resources may be further shared to devices that are outside of the administrator s control. When this happens the security requirements may be compromised.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

Rights management services RMS integration with mobile device management MDM may be provided. A functionality associated with a document may be restricted according to a document management policy. After the document has been transmitted to a receiving device a request to un restrict the at least one functionality associated with the document may be received. If it is determined that the receiving device complies with the document management policy the functionality associated with the document may be un restricted.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the disclosure s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

Interoperability between managed and non managed devices may be provided. In order to ensure that resources shared with non managed devices utilize at least a minimal level of security a wrapper may be put around communications with non managed devices requiring some credentials or security settings before the communication is displayed. For example an email recipient may need to have a passcode protected device and or encrypted e mail client configuration before the recipient and view open the email and attachments.

Rights Management Services RMS may be used to provide some of these security requirements. RMS is a form of Information Rights Management i.e. technology which protects sensitive information from unauthorized access that uses encryption and a form of selective functionality denial for limiting access to resources such as corporate e mail spreadsheets documents and web pages etc. and the operations authorized users can perform on them. Companies can use this RMS to encrypt information stored in such document formats and prevent the protected content from being decrypted except by specified people or groups in certain environments under certain conditions and for certain periods of time. These security requirements may be enforced through policies embedded in the documents. Specific operations like printing copying editing forwarding and deleting can be allowed or disallowed by content authors for individual pieces of content and RMS administrators can deploy RMS templates that group these rights together into predefined rights that can be applied en masse.

The technical effects of certain embodiments of the disclosure may include establishing control of access to networks and resources when access lists may not be predefined and reducing and or eliminating the burden of predefining access lists to control access to networks and resources. Moreover the technical effects of certain embodiments of the invention may include enhancing network access control by assigning specific access rights based on access lists to client devices authorized to access associated network beacons and resources.

To reduce the cost of ownership of user devices and cellular and or data service charges associated with use of such user devices a business may implement a bring your own device BYOD policy to allow an employee to use his her personal device to access business resources rather than provide the employee with a business owned user device for such purpose. To support such a BYOD policy a user device administrator i.e. IT administrator may manage a group of personally owned user devices via a management application executed by a management server in communication with the user devices over a network to provide the user devices with secure access to business resources.

The user device administrator may enroll user devices into the management system to monitor the user devices for security vulnerabilities and to configure the user devices for secure access to business resources. The user device administrator may create and or configure at least one configuration profile via a user interface provided by the management system. A configuration profile may comprise a set of instructions and or settings that configure the operations and or functions of a user device which may ensure the security of the accessed resources. The user device administrator may for instance configure a business email configuration profile by specifying the network address and access credentials of a business email account that the users of the user devices are authorized to access. Other configuration policies may include but are not limited to hardware software application function cellular text message and data use restrictions which may be based at least in part on the current time and or location of the restricted user device. The user device administrator may thereafter deploy the configuration profiles to specific user devices such as to groups of user devices of employees with similar roles privileges and or titles.

The user devices may also have access to personal configuration profiles that may be created by the users of the user devices. The user devices may for instance have access to a personal email configuration profile that was created by a user of the user device to provide access to her personal email account. Thus a user device enrolled in a BYOD management system may have more than one configuration profile for a given use of the user device such as a personal email configuration profile and a business email configuration profile that are both used for accessing email accounts on the user device.

The user devices may be instructed to enable and or disable certain configuration profiles according to authorization rights specified by the user device administrator such as location and or time based authorization rights. For example a BYOD policy may specify that user devices enrolled in the BYOD management system are authorized for personal use outside of the workday and are authorized for business use during the workday. Similarly a BYOD device may be restricted to business uses while in work locations and or prohibited from accessing business resources while outside of secure work locations. To implement such a policy a user device administrator may instruct the user devices to toggle between personal configuration policies and business configuration policies based on factors such as the current time and or location associated with the user device. The current time may be based on the current time at the current location of the user device which may be determined by GPS Wi Fi Cellular Triangulation etc. or may be based on the current time at a configured primary location associated with the user device which may be the primary office location of an employee user of the user device. As an example time based configuration profile toggling may be provided by instructing a user device to enable business configuration profiles and disable personal configuration profiles while the current time is between 9 AM and 5 PM at the current location of the user device and to disable business configuration profiles and enable personal configuration profiles while the current time is between 5 PM and 9 AM at the current location of the user device.

Basic functionality of user device may be provided by an operating system contained in memory . One or more programmed software applications may be executed by utilizing the computing resources in user device . Applications stored in memory may be executed by processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of operating system . For example processor may be configured to execute applications such as web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications and or other applications capable of receiving and or providing data.

Data provided as input to and generated as output from the application s may be stored in memory and read by processor from memory as needed during the course of application program execution. Input data may be data stored in memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to user device or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application program at the time it was generated as a software application program. Data may be received via any of a plurality of communication ports A C of user device . Communication ports A C may allow user device to communicate with other devices and may comprise components such as an Ethernet network adapter a modem and or a wireless network connectivity interface. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise one and or more of a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem a wireless radio transceiver and or the like.

User device may also receive data as user input via an input component such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a capture device etc. A capture device may be operative to record user s and capture spoken words motions and or gestures such as with a camera and or microphone. The capture device may comprise any speech and or motion detection device capable of detecting the speech and or actions of the user s .

Data generated by applications may be stored in memory by the processor during the course of application program execution. Data may be provided to the user during application program execution by means of a display . Consistent with embodiments of this disclosure display may comprise an integrated display screen and or an output port coupled to an external display screen.

Memory may also comprise a platform library . Platform library may comprise a collection of functionality useful to multiple applications such as may be provided by an application programming interface API to a software development kit SDK . These utilities may be accessed by applications as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities thus allowing for memory consumption savings and a consistent user interface.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the Figures may have additional features or functionality. For example user device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape not shown .

User device may comprise a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a set top box a music player a web pad a tablet computer system a game console and or another device with like capability. The preceding list comprises examples and is not intended to be limiting.

User device may store in a data store a device profile and a user profile . Device profile may comprise for example an indication of the current position of user device and or indications of the hardware software and security attributes which describe user device . For instance device profile may represent hardware specifications of user device version and configuration information of various software program and hardware components installed on user device data transmission protocols enabled on user device version and usage information of various resources stored on user device and or any other attributes associated with the state of user device . The device profile may further comprise data indicating a date of last virus scan of user device a date of last access by an IT representative a date of last service by the IT representative and or any other data indicating maintenance and usage of user device . Furthermore the device profile may comprise indications of the past behavior of associated users such as resources accessed charges for resource accesses and the inventory accessed from such resources. The device profile may also comprise device identifiers that may uniquely identify the user device . In some embodiments the device identifiers may be a unique hardware identifier such as a GUID Globally Unique Identifier UUID Universally Unique Identifier UDID Unique Device Identifier serial number IMEI Internationally Mobile Equipment Identity Wi Fi MAC Media Access Control address Bluetooth MAC address a CPU ID and or the like or any combination of two or more such hardware identifiers. In some embodiments the device identifier may be a unique software identifier such a token or certificate based at least in part on the aforementioned unique hardware identifiers.

User profile may comprise one or more user identifiers that uniquely identify the user of the user device and or a listing of factors that may affect the experience of the user. In some embodiments the user identifiers may include a username a password and or biometric data related to facial recognition retina recognition fingerprint recognition and the like. The user preferences may comprise indications of the user s age gender bodily traits preferred resource types preferred venue resources and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments both first organization and second organization may each comprise a rights management server and a compliance server and or a single computing device internal or external to each organization may provide the functionality associated with rights management server and compliance server .

The rights management server and the compliance server may comprise for example cloud based solutions server computers and or any other system providing device management capability. For purposes of convenience the rights management server and the compliance server are referred to herein in the singular although it is understood that a plurality of servers may be employed in the arrangements as descried herein. Furthermore in some embodiments multiple rights management servers and or compliance servers may operate on the same server computer. The components executed on the rights management server and or the compliance server for example may comprise various applications services processes systems engines or functionality not disclosed in detail herein.

The compliance server may comprise policy store comprising a plurality of compliance rules and or policies that may be applicable to user device . While the policy store is shown as within the compliance server the policy store may alternately be within the user device and or located on the rights management server and may be remotely updated periodically by compliance server according to common over the air OTA updating methods.

Attempts by user device to perform certain functionality on user device may require user device to be in compliance with one and or more of the compliance policies rules. Depending on the sensitivity of a given functionality different compliance rules may be necessary to ensure that the functionality is adequately restricted. Some functionality may only require ensuring that the proper user is requesting the functionality. Other resources may require compliance with more stringent authorization rules such as determining whether the functionality is restricted during certain time windows. Accordingly user device and or compliance server may be operative to determine whether the user of user device is authorized to perform requested functionality at the time the user requests to perform such functionality.

Compliance server may use the compliance rules to impose hardware restrictions regarding the use of specific wireless devices and specific wireless device features such as for instance cameras Bluetooth IRDA tethering external storage a mobile access point and or other hardware restrictions. The compliance rules may also impose software restrictions such as the use of specific wireless device operating systems or applications internet browser restrictions screen capture functionality and or other software restrictions. Mobile device management restrictions included in the compliance rules may comprise encryption requirements firmware versions remote lock and wipe functionalities logging and reporting features GPS tracking and or other mobile device management features.

The compliance server may determine whether the device characteristics of a requesting device e.g. user device satisfy one or more of the restrictions enumerated in the compliance rules. For example the compliance server may determine that a requesting device that has a camera Bluetooth capability and is executing a specified version of an operating system is compliant with the compliance rules. As another example the compliance server may determine that a requesting device that is associated with an external storage unit and has screen capture functionality enabled is not compliant with the compliance rules.

The rights management server may be operative to provide security for documents and or messages being sent outside the organization. For example sender s device may request rights management server to restrict some functionalities associated with the document and or encrypt the document prior to transmitting the document to receiver s device . In some embodiments rights management server may intercept such outbound documents and or messages without a request from the sender s device . Rights management server may also be operative to provide notice of security requirements and or management policies that must be in effect on receiver s device before the restricted functionality may be un restricted and or the contents of the document message may be decrypted.

In some embodiments the application executed on user device may make the compliance determination based on the device profile credentials and or user preferences. For instance the application may comprise an agent application operative to monitor calls by other applications such as a web browser and or an e mail client on user device to the operating system of user device to determine whether user device seeks to perform functionality associated with one and or more of the compliance rules described above. Additionally the application on user device may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance the application may instruct operating system on user device to disable the camera of user device in response to a determination that a compliance rule specifies that the camera cannot be used at the time of the request by the user device to operate the camera.

In some embodiments the application executed on user device may rely on compliance server to determine whether a given functionality request on user device is permitted according to the compliance rules. For instance the agent application may transmit a functionality request a device profile credentials and or user preferences to compliance server so that compliance server may determine whether user device seeks to perform functionality that may violate a given compliance rule. Additionally compliance server may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance compliance server may instruct the application on user device to instruct operating system to activate a VPN security profile prior to opening a document and or link.

In some embodiments the compliance rules may comprise device settings and or executable instructions that define which functionality the operating system of user device is authorized to perform. Furthermore the compliance rules may comprise a list of functions such as those provided by APIs associated with operating system and or platform library that may be treated as protected functions. Calls to these functions such as calls to retrieve login credentials may result in checks by user device and or compliance server for compliance with the compliance rules.

In some embodiments the application may perform a set of ordered operations to accomplish a requested function. These operation sets may be defined by the user device and or compliance server and may comprise one and or more operations to determine whether the user device is in compliance with policies from policy store . The application may control at least one respective computing resource of the user device . The operations may include configuring at least one respective computing resource of the user device such as restricting access to at least one resource managed by the application .

The Network may comprise for example any type of wired and or wireless network such as a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN Ethernet fiber optic network and or any other type of wired and or wireless network now known or later developed. Additionally the Network may be or include the Internet intranets extranets microwave networks satellite communications cellular systems PCS infrared communications global area networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of such networks.

In some embodiments rights management server may intercept outgoing messages from the sender s organization and determine whether the messages comprise restricted data that needs the functionality restriction put in place. Such restriction policies may apply to all messages and or documents send outside of the organization and or may apply only to certain types of documents e.g. spreadsheets and or may apply to documents comprising certain content e.g. the word confidential . 

Method may then advance to stage where user device may transmit the document to a recipient. For example sender s device may send the document over network to receiver s device via e mail text message voicemail FTP web upload and or any of a plurality of methods now known or contemplated in the future. In some embodiments messages being transmitted to receiver s organization may be scanned for security threats and or requirements prior to being delivered to the recipient. For example receiver s organization may perform an anti virus scan on the transmitted document and or may intercept delivery of any incoming encrypted documents for automatic rejection and or review by an IT or security administrator.

Method may then advance to stage where user device may identify any security requirements associated with the document. For example receiver s device may determine that the document is encrypted and a decryption key may be retrieved from rights management server . For another example receiver s device may comprise a plurality of device management policies and or profiles that impose various restrictions such as requiring a passcode be used on the device and the document may require that such policies may be installed and or active on receiver s device before the document may be opened. For another example the document may comprise requirements that a particular application and or specific version of an application be used to perform certain functions such as opening the document.

Method may then advance to stage where user device may provide the security details associated with the identified security requirements. For example application may attempt to open the transmitted document and identify that at least a certain version must be installed to open the document. Receiver s device may verify that the application meets this criteria before the document is opened. Such verification may comprise for example calculating a checksum on the application s code and comparing it to a known value and or transmitting the version information and or checksum to rights management server for verification. For another example the document may require that certain compliance policies be in effect before the document may be decrypted and or the functionality be un restricted. Receiver s device may not be trusted to provide accurate details about its compliance policies in which case application may send an address of compliance server to rights management server in order to facilitate communication between the two servers. Compliance server and rights management server may the exchange security information such as the state of required compliance policies on receiver s device .

Method may then advance to stage where user device may determine whether the security details have been approved. For example application may receive authorization from rights management server to un restrict the restricted functionality and or a decryption key to decrypt the document. In some embodiments the approval of receiver s device may be cached such as by compliance server and or rights management server such that requests to un restrict a series of documents that comprise the same security requirements may be approved without an exchange of security details each time. Such a cached approval may expire after a configurable length of time such as an hour.

If the security details are determined to be approved at stage method may advance to stage where user device may un restrict the functionality. For example application may decrypt the document using the decryption key provided by rights management server .

If the security details are not approved at stage method may advance to stage where user device may attempt to modify the security settings in order to satisfy the identified security requirements. For example if the security requires that a passcode be in force on receiver s device a user of the receiver s device may be given the opportunity to activate such a passcode. For another example a user may be prompted to download a new application and or a different version of an application in order to un restrict the document. In some embodiments a user may be informed that a time or location is not approved for un restricting the document. For example time sensitive documents may be restricted from being opened until a certain time and may be re restricted after another time. Likewise some documents may be restricted to opening in a given location such as within a geo fence boundary around a user s home office or work building.

From stage method may advance to stage where user device may determine whether the modified security settings are approved substantially as described above with respect to stage . If so method may continue to stage where the document may be un restricted. Otherwise method may advance to stage where user device may delete the restricted document to prevent unauthorized access. In some embodiments multiple attempts may be granted to the user to comply with the security requirements. After the document is deleted at stage or the document s functionality has been unrestricted at stage method may end at stage .

An embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing rights management server RMS integration with Mobile Device Management MDM . The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to restrict at least one functionality associated with the document according to a compliance policy transmitting the document to at least one device receive a request to un restrict the at least one functionality associated with the document determine whether the at least one device complies with the document management policy and in response to determining that the at least one device complies with the document management policy un restrict the at least one functionality associated with the document. The document may comprise any type of electronic data such as an e mail message a text message a word processing document a spreadsheet a presentation an instant message a binary file an audio file a video file a voicemail and a contact information document. The foregoing list is presented for example purposes and is non limiting. The compliance policy may for example be imposed by an organization associated with the sender of the document. The restricted functionality may comprise for example opening the document forwarding the document modifying the document saving the document deleting the document opening the document and sharing the document and such restriction may comprise for example embedding control codes meta data and or instructions in the document and or encrypting part and or all of the document. Un restricting the functionality may require that a compliance policy comprising for example a device restriction e.g. type of device a device requirement e.g. a firmware version a user restriction e.g. a password group membership biometric authentication etc. a time restriction and or a location restriction. Requests to un restrict the functionality and the result whether successful or not may be logged by the sender and or the receiver s organization.

Another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing rights management server RMS integration with Mobile Device Management MDM . The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a document comprising at least one restricted functionality identify a requirement for un restricting the at least one restricted functionality satisfy the requirement for un restricting the at least one restricted functionality and perform the un restricted at least one functionality. Identifying the requirement for un restricting the at least one restricted functionality may comprises for example being operative to receive install configure and or activate a compliance policy from a compliance server. The processing unit may be further operative to facilitate a communication between compliance servers associated with the sender and receiver in order to verify the presence of a required compliance policy and or security feature. The communication may comprise the sender s compliance server and or rights management server to inform and or instruct the recipient s compliance server and or rights management server to install the required compliance policy on the recipient s device before the document may be un restricted.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing rights management server RMS integration with Mobile Device Management MDM . The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive an encrypted document from a sender identify a first compliance service associated with the sender facilitate an exchange of a plurality of data between the first compliance server and a second compliance server associated with a recipient of the encrypted document determine whether the first compliance server is satisfied with the exchanged plurality of data and if so receive a decryption key associated with the document decrypt the document and display the document. The exchanged plurality of data may comprise for example at least one device compliance rule. If the first compliance server is not satisfied with the exchanged plurality of data the processing unit may be operative to modify a configuration setting associated with the at least one device compliance rule and facilitate a second exchange of a second plurality of data between the first compliance server and the second compliance server. If the first compliance server is not satisfied with the second exchanged plurality of data the processing unit may be operative to delete the document.

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computing systems including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. User interfaces and information of various types may be displayed via on board computing device displays or via remote display units associated with one or more computing devices. For example user interfaces and information of various types may be displayed and interacted with on a wall surface onto which user interfaces and information of various types are projected. Interaction with the multitude of computing systems with which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced include keystroke entry touch screen entry voice or other audio entry gesture entry where an associated computing device is equipped with detection e.g. camera functionality for capturing and interpreting user gestures for controlling the functionality of the computing device and the like. The Figures above and their associated descriptions provide a discussion of a variety of operating environments in which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced. However the devices and systems illustrated and discussed with respect to the Figures are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of computing device configurations that may be utilized for practicing embodiments of this disclosure as described herein.

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e. memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

A number of applications and data files may be used to perform processes and or methods as described above. The aforementioned processes are examples and a processing unit may perform other processes. Other programming modules that may be used in accordance with embodiments of this disclosure may include electronic mail calendar and contacts applications data processing applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications slide presentation applications drawing or computer aided application programs etc.

Generally consistent with embodiments of this disclosure program modules may include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types. Moreover embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates a circuit utilizing a microprocessor or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as for example AND OR and NOT including but not limited to mechanical optical fluidic and quantum technologies. In addition embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.

Embodiments of this disclosure may for example be implemented as a computer process and or method a computing system an apparatus device or appliance and or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. Accordingly the present disclosure may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . In other words embodiments of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific computer readable medium examples a non exhaustive list the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced via a system on a chip SOC where each and or many of the elements described above may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. Such an SOC device may include one or more processing units graphics units communications units system virtualization units and various application functionalities all of which may be integrated or burned onto the chip substrate as a single integrated circuit. When operating via an SOC the functionality described herein with respect to training and or interacting with any element may operate via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit chip .

Embodiments of this disclosure are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

All rights including copyrights in any code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

