---

title: Semiconductor package with embedded components and method of making the same
abstract: A semiconductor package may include a lower substrate with one or more electronic components attached to a surface thereof and an upper substrate with one or more cavities wherein the upper substrate is attached to the lower substrate at a plurality of connection points with the one or more electronic components fitting within a single cavity or a separate cavity for each component that allow the overall form factor of the semiconductor package to remain smaller. The plurality of connection points provide a mechanical and electrical connection between the upper and lower substrate and may include solder joints there between as well as conductive filler particles that create an adhesive reinforcement matrix when compressed for assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09601435&OS=09601435&RS=09601435
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09601435
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150122
---
This disclosure relates generally to semiconductor packages and more specifically but not exclusively to semiconductor packages having embedded components.

In modern semiconductor manufacturing there is an increasing demand for putting more silicon into a smaller area. One approach is to embed a silicon die or other electronic component into the package substrate during formation of the package substrate. For example after putting the die on one of the substrate layers additional substrate layers are formed on top of the embedded die. However this approach has drawbacks. Since the substrate formation process yield is relatively lower there is high chance of losing good die that are embedded into a substrate that fails quality inspections.

Accordingly there is a need for systems apparatus and methods that improve upon conventional approaches including the improved methods system and apparatus provided hereby.

The inventive features that are characteristic of the teachings together with further features and advantages are better understood from the detailed description and the accompanying figures. Each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and does not limit the present teachings.

The following presents a simplified summary relating to one or more aspects and or examples associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein. As such the following summary should not be considered an extensive overview relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples nor should the following summary be regarded to identify key or critical elements relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples or to delineate the scope associated with any particular aspect and or example. Accordingly the following summary has the sole purpose to present certain concepts relating to one or more aspects and or examples relating to the apparatus and methods disclosed herein in a simplified form to precede the detailed description presented below.

In some examples of the disclosure the system apparatus and method includes a semiconductor package having a first electronic component mounted on a lower substrate layer a second electronic component mounted on the lower substrate layer adjacent the first electronic component an adhesive layer on a surface of the first electronic component and a surface of the second electronic component an upper substrate layer having a cavity therein the upper substrate layer attached to the lower substrate layer such that the first electronic component and the second electronic component are located within the cavity and a plurality of connection points located between the upper substrate layer and the lower substrate layer the plurality of connection points electrically and mechanically connecting the upper substrate layer and the lower substrate layer.

In some examples of the disclosure the system apparatus and method includes a semiconductor package having a first electronic component mounted on a lower substrate layer a second electronic component mounted on the lower substrate layer adjacent the first electronic component an adhesive layer on a surface of the first electronic component and a surface of the second electronic component an upper substrate layer having a first cavity and a second cavity the upper substrate layer attached to the lower substrate layer such that the first electronic component is located in the first cavity and the second electronic component is located in the second cavity and a plurality of connection points located between the upper substrate layer and the lower substrate layer the plurality of connection points electrically and mechanically connecting the upper substrate layer and the lower substrate layer.

In some examples of the disclosure the system apparatus and method includes a method of forming a package substrate with embedded components having the steps of mounting a first electronic component and a second electronic component on a lower substrate layer applying an adhesive layer to a surface of the first electronic component and a surface of the second electronic component adhering an upper substrate layer to the surface of the first electronic component and the surface of the second electronic component and forming a plurality of connection points the plurality of connection points electrically and mechanically connecting the upper substrate layer and the lower substrate layer.

Other features and advantages associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the accompanying drawings and detailed description.

In accordance with common practice the features depicted by the drawings may not be drawn to scale. Accordingly the dimensions of the depicted features may be arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. In accordance with common practice some of the drawings are simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all components of a particular apparatus or method. Further like reference numerals denote like features throughout the specification and figures.

In some examples of the disclosure a semiconductor package may include a lower substrate with one or more electronic components attached to a surface thereof and an upper substrate with one or more cavities wherein the upper substrate is attached to the lower substrate at a plurality of connection points with the one or more electronic components fitting within a single cavity or a separate cavity for each component that allow the overall form factor of the semiconductor package to remain smaller. The plurality of connection points provide a mechanical and electrical connection between the upper and lower substrate and may include solder joints there between as well as conductive filler particles that create an adhesive reinforcement matrix when compressed for assembly.

Various aspects are disclosed in the following description and related drawings to show specific examples relating to the disclosure. Alternate examples will be apparent to those skilled in the pertinent art upon reading this disclosure and may be constructed and practiced without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements will not be described in detail or may be omitted so as to not obscure the relevant details of the aspects and examples disclosed herein.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any details described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other examples. Likewise the term examples does not require that all examples include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation. Use of the terms in one example an example in one feature and or a feature in this specification does not necessarily refer to the same feature and or example. Furthermore a particular feature and or structure can be combined with one or more other features and or structures. Moreover at least a portion of the apparatus described hereby can be configured to perform at least a portion of a method described hereby.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of examples of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It should be noted that the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof mean any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between elements and can encompass a presence of an intermediate element between two elements that are connected or coupled together via the intermediate element. Coupling and or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. As employed herein elements can be connected or coupled together for example by using one or more wires cables and or printed electrical connections as well as by using electromagnetic energy. The electromagnetic energy can have wavelengths in the radio frequency region the microwave region and or the optical both visible and invisible region. These are several non limiting and non exhaustive examples.

Any reference herein to an element using a designation such as first second and so forth does not limit the quantity and or order of those elements. Rather these designations are used as a convenient method of distinguishing between two or more elements and or instances of an element. Thus a reference to first and second elements does not mean that only two elements can be employed or that the first element must necessarily precede the second element. Also unless stated otherwise a set of elements can comprise one or more elements. In addition terminology of the form at least one of A B or C used in the description or the claims can be interpreted as A or B or C or any combination of these elements. 

The lower substrate layer and the upper substrate layer may include a plurality of interconnections such as electrical redistribution layers and vias that allow electrical signals to be routed within the respective substrate layer between substrate layers and to external points. For example the upper substrate layer may include connection vias that electrically connect a top connection pad to a lower connection pad . The lower substrate layer and the upper substrate layer may be attached at a plurality of connection points that electrically and mechanically connect the lower substrate layer and the upper substrate layer . Each of the plurality of connection points may include a solder joint and may include an adhesive layer with conductive filler particles that form an electrically conductive adhesive reinforcement matrix when compressed. The conductive filler particles may be electrically conductive such as copper silver gold or alloys of the same.

In the process flow continues with the application of an adhesive layer on the first electronic component an adhesive layer on the second electronic component and an adhesive layer on the third electronic component . In the process flow continues with the separate formation of the upper substrate layer . It should be understood that the upper substrate layer may be formed before or after the lower substrate layer and before or after the attachment of the electronic components and or the application of the adhesive layers. The upper substrate layer is formed with a plurality of dielectric regions on each side of the plurality of connection points the plurality of connection points on a bottom surface and a plurality of interconnections within and on the surfaces of the upper substrate layer that provide electrical connections and pathways within the substrate between the upper substrate layer and lower substrate layer and to external connections. The upper substrate layer may include a first cavity a second cavity and a third cavity . In addition the plurality of connection points may include a solder material and conductive filler particles for providing a mechanical and electrical connection between the upper substrate layer and the lower substrate layer . The solder material and conductive filler particles may be embedded in an adhesive material that creates an adhesive reinforcement matrix when compressed. In the partial process flow ends with the attachment of the upper substrate layer to the lower substrate layer .

In the process flow continues with the application of an adhesive layer on the surface of the lower substrate layer covering the first electronic component the second electronic component and the third electronic component . In the process flow continues with the separate formation of the upper substrate layer . It should be understood that the upper substrate layer may be formed before or after the lower substrate layer and before or after the attachment of the electronic components and or the application of the adhesive layers. The upper substrate layer is formed with a plurality of dielectric regions on each side of the plurality of connection points the plurality of connection points on a bottom surface and a plurality of interconnections within and on the surfaces of the upper substrate layer that provide electrical connections and pathways within the substrate between the upper substrate layer and lower substrate layer and to external connections. The upper substrate layer may include a first cavity a second cavity and a third cavity . In a solder material is applied to the plurality of connection points for providing a mechanical and electrical connection between the upper substrate layer and the lower substrate layer . In the partial process flow continues with the attachment of the upper substrate layer to the lower substrate layer . In the partial process flow ends with the application of a solder reflow process and a curing process to secure the upper substrate layer to the lower substrate layer to form a semiconductor package .

In the process flow continues with the application of an anisotropic conductive adhesive layer on the surface of the lower substrate layer covering the first electronic component the second electronic component and the third electronic component . In the process flow continues with the separate formation of the upper substrate layer . It should be understood that the upper substrate layer may be formed before or after the lower substrate layer and before or after the attachment of the electronic components and or the application of the adhesive layer. The upper substrate layer is formed with a plurality of connection points on a bottom surface and a plurality of interconnections within and on the surfaces of the upper substrate layer that provide electrical connections and pathways within the substrate between the upper substrate layer and lower substrate layer and to external connections. The upper substrate layer may include a first cavity a second cavity and a third cavity . In the partial process flow continues with the attachment of the upper substrate layer to the lower substrate layer and the application of a thermal compression technique. As can be seen the conductive filler material in the anisotropic conductive adhesive layer forms an adhesive reinforcement matrix between each of the plurality of connection points of the upper substrate layer and each of the plurality of connection points of the lower substrate layer that mechanically and electrically couple the upper substrate layer to the lower substrate layer . In the partial process flow ends with the application of a curing process to secure the upper substrate layer to the lower substrate layer to form a semiconductor package .

In this description certain terminology is used to describe certain features. The term mobile device can describe and is not limited to a mobile phone a mobile communication device a pager a personal digital assistant a personal information manager a mobile hand held computer a laptop computer a wireless device a wireless modem and or other types of portable electronic devices typically carried by a person and or having communication capabilities e.g. wireless cellular infrared short range radio etc. . Further the terms user equipment UE mobile terminal mobile device and wireless device can be interchangeable.

Processor which executes instructions from at least two instruction sets in different instruction set operating modes additionally includes a debug circuit operative to compare upon the execution of each instruction at least a predetermined target instruction set operating mode to the current instruction set operating mode and to provide an indication of a match between the two.

Pipeline fetches instructions from an instruction cache I cache with memory address translation and permissions managed by an Instruction side Translation Lookaside Buffer ITLB . Data is accessed from a data cache D cache with memory address translation and permissions managed by a main Translation Lookaside Buffer TLB . In various examples ITLB may comprise a copy of part of TLB . Alternatively ITLB and TLB may be integrated. Similarly in various examples of processor I cache and D cache may be integrated or unified. Further I cache and D cache may be L1 caches. Misses in I cache and or D cache cause an access to main off chip memory by a memory interface . Memory interface may be a master input to a bus interconnect implementing a shared bus to one or more memory devices that may incorporate the improved data decompression in accordance with some examples of the disclosure. Additional master devices not shown may additionally connect to bus interconnect .

Processor may include input output I O interface which may be a master device on a peripheral bus across which I O interface may access various peripheral devices via bus . Those of skill in the art will recognize that numerous variations of processor are possible. For example processor may include a second level L2 cache for either or both I and D caches . In addition one or more of the functional blocks depicted in processor may be omitted from a particular example. Other functional blocks that may reside in processor such as a JTAG controller instruction pre decoder branch target address cache and the like are not germane to a description of the present disclosure and are omitted for clarity.

Referring to a system that includes a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone which has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from a radio access network RAN that may ultimately come from a core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. Platform can include transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in memory of the wireless device. Memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Platform also can include local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . Local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. Internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an example of the disclosure can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between UE and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network.

Nothing stated or illustrated depicted in this application is intended to dedicate any component step feature benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether the component step feature benefit advantage or the equivalent is recited in the claims.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration .

Although some aspects have been described in connection with a device it goes without saying that these aspects also constitute a description of the corresponding method and so a block or a component of a device should also be understood as a corresponding method step or as a feature of a method step. Analogously thereto aspects described in connection with or as a method step also constitute a description of a corresponding block or detail or feature of a corresponding device.

The examples described above merely constitute an illustration of the principles of the present disclosure. It goes without saying that modifications and variations of the arrangements and details described herein will become apparent to other persons skilled in the art. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure be restricted only by the scope of protection of the appended patent claims rather than by the specific details presented on the basis of the description and the explanation of the examples herein.

In the detailed description above it can be seen that different features are grouped together in examples. This manner of disclosure should not be understood as an intention that the claimed examples require more features than are explicitly mentioned in the respective claim. Rather the situation is such that inventive content may reside in fewer than all features of an individual example disclosed. Therefore the following claims should hereby be deemed to be incorporated in the description wherein each claim by itself can stand as a separate example. Although each claim by itself can stand as a separate example it should be noted that although a dependent claim can refer in the claims to a specific combination with one or a plurality of claims other examples can also encompass or include a combination of said dependent claim with the subject matter of any other dependent claim or a combination of any feature with other dependent and independent claims. Such combinations are proposed herein unless it is explicitly expressed that a specific combination is not intended. Furthermore it is also intended that features of a claim can be included in any other independent claim even if said claim is not directly dependent on the independent claim.

It should furthermore be noted that methods disclosed in the description or in the claims can be implemented by a device comprising means for performing the respective steps or actions of this method.

Furthermore in some examples an individual step action can be subdivided into a plurality of sub steps or contain a plurality of sub steps. Such sub steps can be contained in the disclosure of the individual step and be part of the disclosure of the individual step.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative examples of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the examples of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

