---

title: Dynamic provisioning of a virtual storage appliance
abstract: Systems, methods, and apparatus for facilitating dynamic provisioning of a virtual storage appliance in a cloud computing environment are presented herein. A storage system management component can provision storage from a storage medium to facilitate access of at least a portion of the storage by a virtual storage appliance (VSA) based on a request for at least one resource associated with the VSA. Further, a network management component can provision the VSA to facilitate the access of the portion of the storage by the VSA. Furthermore, a storage fabric management component can configure a network to facilitate the access of the portion of the storage by the VSA via the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473577&OS=09473577&RS=09473577
owner: OS NEXUS, INC.
number: 09473577
owner_city: Mercer Island
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150609
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 434 247 filed Mar. 29 2012 and entitled DYNAMIC PROVISIONING OF A VIRTUAL STORAGE APPLIANCE which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 468 959 filed Mar. 29 2011 and entitled METHOD AND SERVICES FOR THE DYNAMIC PROVISIONING OF VIRTUAL STORAGE APPLIANCES the entireties of each are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to data storage including but not limited to dynamic provisioning of a virtual storage appliance.

Although conventional processing systems can utilize and deploy virtual servers in cloud computing environments to improve load balancing of applications conventional techniques cannot adequately provide dynamic provisioning of customized virtual storage appliances VSAs in such environments.

The above described deficiencies of today s virtual server environments and related technologies are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional technology and are not intended to be exhaustive representative or always applicable. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of illustrative non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some illustrative non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow. It will also be appreciated that the detailed description may include additional or alternative embodiments beyond those described in this summary.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure various non limiting aspects are described in connection with dynamically provisioning a virtual storage appliance VSA in a cloud computing environment. In one or more aspects storage network component s e.g. storage network s virtual local area networks VLANs virtual storage area networks VSANs virtual host bus adaptors HBAs etc. communicatively coupled to a VSA can enable the VSA to provide end users with all the features of a dedicated storage system without the cost having to purchase and configure additional hardware for each new system. In one or more other aspects components of a cloud computing environment can be intelligently analyzed and new VSAs can be dynamically deployed with minimal or no human intervention. As such companies and cloud service providers can deploy VSAs en mass for their users and customer base in an automated fashion monitor the VSAs and greatly reduce the cost of managing complex storage environments.

For instance a storage system management component can provision storage from a storage medium e.g. a storage system a storage appliance a solid state disk SSD heterogeneous storage etc. to provide dedicated storage for the virtual storage appliance. Further the storage management component can configure access of at least a portion of the storage e.g. so that the portion can be utilized by a virtual storage appliance VSA e.g. server compute server virtual server etc. based on a request for resource s to be associated with the VSA. Further a cloud management component can provision the VSA based on policies and facilitate access of the portion of the storage by the VSA.

In another embodiment a cloud provisioning portal can receive the request via a network e.g. Internet. Further the resource s can include the VSA resource requirements and or at least a portion of the storage requirements. In yet another embodiment the request can define a location where the VSA should be deployed and or a geographic or datacenter location of the portion of the storage to be provisioned. In one embodiment the request for VSA provisioning or expansion can define a performance criterion e.g. associated with a service level agreement SLA an amount of the storage a minimum performance of the storage a processing performance etc.

In an embodiment the cloud management component can provision the VSA utilizing at least a portion of the storage. For example the cloud management component can create a boot image using snapshot mechanisms e.g. within the portion of the storage to facilitate the initial configuration of a new VSA. Further the cloud management component can allocate assign etc. the portion of the storage to the VSA for use by the VSA. In another embodiment the cloud management component can dynamically allocate the VSA in a hypervisor cluster or virtual machine manager VMM cluster as a virtual machine operating platform etc.

In yet another embodiment a storage management component can dynamically create one or more virtual SANs for respective VSANs and perform storage network zoning of a switch or storage fabric s to facilitate the access of the portion of the storage by the VSA. For example the switch can include storage technologies e.g. Small Computer System Interface SCSI Internet SCSI iSCSI Fibre Channel FC FC over Ethernet FCoE SCSI over Fiber Channel Serial Storage Architecture SSA Advanced Technology AT Attachment ATA interface ATA over Ethernet AoE other Storage Area Network SAN protocol s etc. communicatively coupled between the VSA and the storage medium.

In an embodiment the storage management component can configure the hypervisor to provision one or more virtual HBAs for the VSA so that the VSA can login to the switch storage fabric s etc. and access back end storage for the VSA as provided by e.g. previous provisioning operation s . Through dynamic discovery of fabric system and storage system configuration data the storage management component can intelligently orchestrates configuration of appropriate elements of the cloud computing environment.

In one embodiment a network configuration component can dynamically discover which VLAN the VSA should be added to dynamically discover network information associated with the VSA and utilize such information during VLAN configuration so as to restrict access to the VSA e.g. to a given user customer etc.

In one embodiment a license configuration component can allocate a license key that is associated with the VSA and authorize the access of the portion of the storage by the VSA based on the license key. In another embodiment a monitor component can monitor performance of the VSA and or the storage based on the access of the portion of the storage by the VSA.

In one non limiting implementation a method can include receiving by a system including at least one processor a request for a resource that is associated with a VSA. In one example the request can include a request for the VSA and or a request for storage space. In another example the request can be received by the system via the Internet.

Further the method can include provisioning by the system storage space from a tier of storage based on the request. In one embodiment the tier of storage can be heterogeneous including various forms sizes and or qualities of computer readable storage media e.g. including fault tolerance and high availability levels. In another embodiment the method can include provisioning by the system the VSA to facilitate access of the storage space by the VSA. In other embodiment s the provisioning the VSA can include allocating by the system at least a portion of the storage space to the VSA creating by the system a snapshot of a boot drive of the VSA on the tier of the storage or in an arbitrary pool of storage from another storage medium allocating by the system the VSA in a hypervisor cluster as a virtual machine and or allocating by the system a license key to the VSA to facilitate the access of the storage space by the VSA.

In one embodiment the method can include configuring by the system a component e.g. storage fabric VSAN zoning of a VSAN storage switch network switch VLAN transmission media etc. of a network communicatively coupled between the VSA and the storage space to facilitate the access of the storage space by the VSA.

In another embodiment the method can include monitoring by the system performance of the VSA and or the storage space based on the access of the storage space by the VSA.

In another non limiting implementation a method can include allocating storage from a computer readable storage medium to a VSA in response to receiving a request for a resource that is to be associated with the VSA. Further the method can include facilitating access to the storage by the VSA via a network.

Other embodiments and various non limiting examples scenarios and implementations are described in more detail below.

Various non limiting embodiments of systems methods and apparatus presented herein dynamically provision a virtual storage appliance in a cloud computing environment. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the techniques described herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring certain aspects.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

The word exemplary and or demonstrative is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. utilizing explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter as described herein. For example an artificial intelligence system can be used via storage system management component see below to provision storage from a storage medium e.g. tier of computer readable storage media to facilitate access of portion s of the storage by a virtual storage appliance VSA based on a request for resource s associated with the VSA. Further the artificial intelligence system can be used via cloud management component see below to provision the VSA to facilitate the access of the portion s of the storage by the VSA.

As used herein the term infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment user and or intent from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Captured data and events can include user data device data environment data data from sensors sensor data application data implicit data explicit data etc. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events for example.

Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic and data fusion engines can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed subject matter.

In addition the disclosed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier or computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip s an optical disk e.g. compact disk CD a digital video disc DVD a Blu ray Disc BD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. card stick key drive and or a virtual device that emulates a storage device and or any of the above computer readable media.

As described above conventional virtual computing techniques cannot adequately provide customized storage systems within virtual server environments. Compared to such technology various systems methods and apparatus described herein in various embodiments can improve user experience s by dynamically provisioning a virtual storage appliance in a cloud computing environment.

Referring now to a block diagram of a cloud computing infrastructure is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Aspects of cloud computing infrastructure and systems networks other apparatus and processes explained herein can constitute machine executable instructions embodied within machine s e.g. embodied in one or more computer readable mediums or media associated with one or more machines. Such instructions when executed by the one or more machines e.g. computer s computing device s virtual machine s etc. can cause the machine s to perform the operations described.

Additionally the systems and processes explained herein can be embodied within hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the instant disclosure that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders not illustrated.

Cloud computing infrastructure can include storage system management component cloud management component and storage switch component . In an aspect storage system management component can provision storage from a storage medium not shown of storage infrastructure to facilitate access via storage switch component of portion s of the storage by a VSA not shown of virtualization infrastructure based on a request for resource s associated with the VSA e.g. a request for portions s of the storage a request for the VSA etc. In one aspect the storage medium can include various computer readable storage technologies e.g. virtual hard disk device VHD file s physical SCSI device s Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SATA device s Serial Attached SCSI SAS device s Serial Storage Architecture SSA device s and or solid state disk SSD device s . In another aspect storage switch component can be communicatively coupled between storage infrastructure and virtualization infrastructure utilizing a Small Computer System Interface SCSI which is a peripheral peer to peer interface that can be used e.g. in personal computer PC server systems a SCSI over Fiber Channel protocol an SAS protocol an Internet SCSI iSCSI protocol which is an Internet Protocol IP based storage networking standard for linking data storage facilities and or entities an Advanced Technology AT Attachment ATA interface an ATA over Ethernet AoE interface other Storage Area Network SAN protocol s etc.

Further cloud management component can provision the VSA e.g. based on one or more policies and facilitate access of the portion s of the storage by the VSA. In one aspect cloud management component can provision the VSA utilizing portion s of the storage. For example cloud management component can create e.g. using snapshot mechanism s a boot image from the portion s of the storage to facilitate configuration of the VSA. In another example cloud management component can dynamically allocate the VSA in a hypervisor cluster see below as a virtual machine.

Now referring to a block diagram of another cloud computing infrastructure is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Cloud computing infrastructure can include a VSA management system including storage system management component cloud management component storage management component and network configuration component . As illustrated VSA management system can be communicatively coupled to cloud provisioning portal which can receive a request for resource s associated with the VSA via a network e.g. via the Internet a web portal etc. In one example the request can include a request for the VSA and or portion s of storage of storage infrastructure . In another example the request can define a location of where the VSA should be deployed and or a geographic and or datacenter location of the portion s of the storage e.g. to be provisioned. In yet another example the request can define a performance criterion e.g. associated with a service level agreement SLA an amount of the storage a minimum performance of the storage a processing performance etc.

Storage system management component can provision via storage system s storage from disk storage to facilitate access via storage switch component of portion s of the storage by VSA s based on the request for the resource s . In an aspect storage system s can configure modify create etc. computer readable storage media of disk storage including for example virtual hard disk device VHD file s physical SCSI device s Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SATA device s Serial Attached SCSI SAS device s Serial Storage Architecture SSA device s and or solid state disk SSD device s .

Further cloud management component can provision VSA s using portion s of disk storage . In one example cloud management component can provision VSA s utilizing boot storage and or pool storage created via storage system management component from disk storage . In another example cloud management component can dynamically allocate VSA s in hypervisor s which can be included in a hypervisor or virtual machine manager VMM cluster including more than one VSA. In this regard hypervisor s can implement VSA s as virtual machine s operating platform s etc. that can share virtualized hardware resources associated with server platform s for executing respective instances of operating systems etc.

Furthermore storage management component can configure storage switch component to facilitate the access of the portion s of the storage by VSA s . For example storage fabric management component can configure various components associated with storage technologies including e.g. SCSI iSCSI FC SCSI over Fiber Channel SSA ATA interface AoE other SAN protocol s etc. communicatively coupled between VSA s and disk storage . In one embodiment storage management component can dynamically create one or more virtual SANs for respective VSANs and perform storage network zoning of a switch or storage fabric s to facilitate the access of the portion s of the storage by VSA s .

In another embodiment storage management component can configure a hypervisor of hypervisor s to provision one or more virtual HBAs for the VSA so that the VSA can login to a switch storage fabric s etc. associated with storage switch component and access back end storage for the VSA as provided by e.g. previous provisioning operation s .

In yet another embodiment network configuration component can dynamically discover which VLAN the VSA should be added to dynamically discover network information associated with the VSA and utilize such information during VLAN configuration so as to restrict access to the VSA e.g. to a given user customer etc.

In an embodiment network configuration component can configure VLAN access for the VSA via network switch component . Now referring to a block diagram of network switch component communicatively coupled to VSA management system and virtualization infrastructure is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. VSA management system can dynamically correlate an FC FCoE host bus adapter HBA e.g. FC FCoE HBA or a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI adapter e.g. PCI with FC switch fabric for example for configuration of FC switch fabric . Further VSA management system can dynamically provision virtual HBA and or virtual PCI bus e.g. PCI within VSA e.g. communicatively coupling virtual HBA PCI to fabric via FC FCoE HBA PCI for example using technologies such as N Port ID Virtualization NPIV e.g. NPIV and or using technologies that can extend a virtual PCI bus into the VSA such as Single Root I O Virtualization SR IOV e.g. SRIOV . In some embodiments FC technologies are not utilized but Ethernet switch and network interface card can be dynamically configured via VSA management system to enable iSCSI traffic constrained to a specific VLAN for use by VSA .

Referring now to a block diagram of VSA management system is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. VSA management system includes components of VSA management system storage system management component cloud management component and storage management component in addition to license configuration component asset management component security authentication component and encryption component . In one or more embodiments the VSA can be added to and integrated with an existing Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP or Active Directory configuration e.g. to enable authentication and authorization for example via security authentication component using existing security infrastructure. Asset management component can monitor keep track of etc. operator s owner s etc. of respective VSAs and can monitor keep track of etc. resources that have been allocated to the respective VSAs e.g. so that charge back accounting can be done for the respective VSAs. Further encryption component can enable the VSA to automatically store associated data in an encrypted fashion e.g. utilizing encryption technologies provided by storage system s storage switch component and or the VSA to enable the VSA to automatically store data in an encrypted fashion as part of the VSA deployment.

License configuration component can allocate a license key that is associated with VSA s and can authorize the access of portion s of disk storage by VSA s based on the license key. Further license configuration component can automatically request and activate additional third 3 party licenses within a switch e.g. storage switch component within a storage system e.g. associated with storage infrastructure and or within a virtualization layer e.g. virtualization infrastructure as part of the provisioning process. In another embodiment asset management component can monitor performance of VSA s and or the portion s of disk storage .

At storage system management component can allocate the storage cloud or storage pool for the new VSA utilizing at least one high availability HA storage system e.g. cluster failover cluster etc. that includes computing device s processor s computer s etc. configured to provide continued service e.g. during hardware software faults by immediately restarting crashed applications on another system without requiring administrative intervention e.g. during failover. Further VSA storage system management component can snapshot a golden image of the new VSA to create boot disk .

At cloud management component can dynamically allocate a VSA virtual machine in hypervisor of hypervisor cluster . At cloud management component can assign boot disk and storage pool to the new VSA e.g. VSA . At license configuration component can dynamically allocate a new license key from a license manager not shown for the new VSA and inject the new license key into the new VSA virtual machine. At storage fabric management component can dynamically configure e.g. via storage switch component not shown component s of a network communicatively coupled between the new VSA and the customer s VPN or VLAN e.g. cloud customer s VPN to facilitate access of the new VSA e.g. of iSCSI disks server via cloud customer s VPN .

Referring now to a process associated with a VSA management system e.g. etc. is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. At a request for a resource that is associated with a VSA new VSA etc. can be received by a system e.g. by VSA management system etc. In an aspect the request can be received by the system via the Internet. In another aspect the request can include a request for the VSA and or a request to provision storage space associated with a VSA.

At storage space can be provisioned by the system from a tier of storage e.g. storage grid based on the request. In one aspect the tier of storage can be heterogeneous including varies sizes and performances of computer readable storage media. In another aspect at least a portion of the storage space can be allocated by the system to the VSA. At the VSA can be provisioned by the system to facilitate access of the storage space by the VSA. In yet another aspect the VSA can be provisioned in response to a snapshot of a boot drive of the VSA being created on the tier of storage by the system. In one aspect the VSA can be provisioned in response to the VSA being allocated in a hypervisor cluster as a virtual machine.

At if it is determined that storage fabric infrastructure is available flow continues to at which a storage fabric e.g. fabric can be configured to enable storage access between provisioned storage and the VSA otherwise flow continues to at which it can be determined whether Domain Name System DNS infrastructure is available. If it is determined at that DNS infrastructure is available then flow continues to at which a DNS server can be configured with entries for the VSA otherwise flow continues to at which it can be determined whether configuration of a network is required. If it is determined that network configuration is required then flow continues to at which the VSA can be added to a customer s private network e.g. VPN VLAN etc. Otherwise flow continues to at which it can be determined whether security infrastructure is available.

If it is determined that security infrastructure is available then flow continues to at which the VSA can be configured to communicate with a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP or other security server for authentication and or authorization. Otherwise flow continues to at which it can be determined whether encryption is requested. If encryption is requested then flow continues to at which encryption policies can be configured in a switch fabric storage system and or virtual storage appliance otherwise flow continues to at which it can be determined whether a quality of service QOS level is requested. If the QOS level is requested then flow continues to at which QOS controls in the switch fabric storage system and or the VSA can be configured to match an SLA otherwise flow continues to at which a new license key can be dynamically provisioned and injected into the VSA to enable the VSA and advanced features as designated in customer requirements. At the VSA can be registered and allocated resources within a cloud management infrastructure for monitoring reporting billing and enablement of customer functions.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database storage medium and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in storage systems described above non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented e.g. various processes associated with . While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive systems can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone watch microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer can also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media networked attached storage NAS e.g. SAN storage etc. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 110 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information into computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

The above description of illustrated embodiments of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In this regard while the disclosed subject matter has been described in connection with various embodiments and corresponding Figures where applicable it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiments for performing the same similar alternative or substitute function of the disclosed subject matter without deviating therefrom. Therefore the disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment described herein but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims below.

