---

title: Method and apparatus for enabling multimedia synchronization
abstract: Methods and apparatus are described for synchronizing a media presentation on a plurality of wireless transmit/receive units (WTRUs). A media session may be replicated from a first WTRU onto a second WTRU. The second WTRU replicates the presentation of the media program from the first WTRU at least in part by receiving a networked bookmark from an Internet Protocol (IP) Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) network, wherein the networked bookmark comprises a suggested presentation offset that indicates an offset in time from a bookmark-created time to a bookmark presentation time at the first WTRU; the second WTRU determining a second-WTRU-presentation offset based at least in part on the suggested presentation offset; and the second WTRU presenting the media program with the determined second-WTRU presentation offset from the beginning of the media program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369502&OS=09369502&RS=09369502
owner: INTERDIGITAL PATENT HOLDINGS, INC.
number: 09369502
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150615
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 633 532 filed Oct. 2 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 553 816 filed Oct. 31 2011 both of which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth.

The quality of multimedia streaming may be affected by several factors. One of them for example is the one way delay of receiving the multimedia streams whereby the delay for conversational audio video applications and interactive applications may be less than 1 second while the delay for non interactive audio video streaming applications may be less than 10 seconds.

Another example of a factor that affects the quality of multimedia streaming may be the synchronized presentation of multimedia streams. A human visual system may be tolerant to a small degree of skew in presenting audio and video streams e.g. less than 80 mseconds . Transporting audio and video streams over unreliable networks such as wireless and the Internet may introduce a variable delay in receiving audio and video packets. This delay variation may become significant if audio and video packets are sent over two different connections as is the case for real time transport protocol RTP RTP control protocol RTCP streaming.

Lip synchronization may affect applications such as television TV video games and video conferencing applications. This may become a complex process if dealing with a multimedia presentation at two or more geographically distributed locations in a temporally synchronized manner which is applicable to social multimedia streaming i.e. multi device synchronization .

Methods and apparatus are described for synchronizing a media presentation on a plurality of wireless transmit receive units WTRUs . A media session may be replicated from a first WTRU onto a second WTRU. The first WTRU may initiate a bookmark procedure to create a bookmark to obtain synchronized playout with the second WTRU. A suggested presentation offset in the bookmark may specify an offset in time from a bookmark created time to a bookmark presentation time at the first WTRU. The first WTRU may establish an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS session with a packet switch stream PSS server. The media session may be replicated onto the second WTRU at a wall clock time T and the second WTRU may present an offset equal to T bookmarkcreatedtime bookmark offset suggestedPresentationOffset from the beginning of a program in order to obtain synchronized media playout with the first WTRU.

As shown in the communications system may include wireless transmit receive units WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN 108 the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed embodiments contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the other networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an evolved Node B eNB a home Node B HNB a home eNB HeNB a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes and the like. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in one embodiment the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another embodiment the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light and the like . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS terrestrial radio access UTRA which may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as high speed packet access HSPA and or evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include high speed downlink packet access HSDPA and or high speed uplink packet access HSUPA .

In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as evolved UTRA E UTRA which may establish the air interface using long term evolution LTE and or LTE advanced LTE A .

In other embodiments the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 1X CDMA2000 evolution data optimized EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 global system for mobile communications GSM enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE GSM EDGE RAN GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router HNB HeNB or AP for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In one embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A and the like to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over Internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution and the like and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the Internet protocol IP in the TCP IP suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a microprocessor one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA circuit an integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the WTRU to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from a base station e.g. the base station over the air interface . For example in one embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. In another embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR ITV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the WTRU may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the WTRU may employ MIMO technology. Thus in one embodiment the WTRU may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals over the air interface .

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the WTRU may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the WTRU to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor of the WTRU may be coupled to and may receive user input data from the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD display unit or organic light emitting diode OLED display unit . The processor may also output user data to the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad . In addition the processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the WTRU such as on a server or a home computer not shown .

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the WTRU . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the WTRU . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion and the like solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which may be configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the WTRU . In addition to or in lieu of the information from the GPS chipset the WTRU may receive location information over the air interface from a base station e.g. base stations and or determine its location based on the timing of the signals being received from two or more nearby base stations. The WTRU may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

As shown in the RAN may include base stations and an ASN gateway though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of base stations and ASN gateways while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The base stations may each be associated with a particular cell not shown in the RAN and may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the base stations may implement MIMO technology. Thus the base station for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU . The base stations may also provide mobility management functions such as handoff triggering tunnel establishment radio resource management traffic classification quality of service QoS policy enforcement and the like. The ASN gateway may serve as a traffic aggregation point and may be responsible for paging caching of subscriber profiles routing to the core network and the like.

The air interface between the WTRUs and the RAN may implement the IEEE 802.16 specification. In addition each of the WTRUs may establish a logical interface not shown with the core network . The logical interface between the WTRUs and the core network may be used for authentication authorization IP host configuration management and or mobility management.

The communication link between each of the base stations may include protocols for facilitating WTRU handovers and the transfer of data between base stations. The communication link between the base stations and the ASN gateway may include protocols for facilitating mobility management based on mobility events associated with each of the WTRUs 

As shown in the RAN may be connected to the core network . The communication link between the RAN and the core network may include protocols for facilitating data transfer and mobility management capabilities for example. The core network may include a mobile IP home agent MIP HA an authentication authorization accounting AAA server and a gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MIP HA may be responsible for IP address management and may enable the WTRUs to roam between different ASNs and or different core networks. The MIP HA may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices. The AAA server may be responsible for user authentication and for supporting user services. The gateway may facilitate interworking with other networks. For example the gateway may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. In addition the gateway may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN may be connected to other ASNs and the core network may be connected to other core networks. The communication link between the RAN and the other ASNs may include protocols for coordinating the mobility of the WTRUs between the RAN and the other ASNs. The communication link between the core network and the other core networks may include protocols for facilitating interworking between home core networks and visited core networks.

Media presentation synchronization across multiple devices is required in certain third generation partnership project 3GPP packet switch stream PSS and multimedia broadcast multicast services MBMS for improved user quality of experience. This feature may not be available in the existing 3GPP mobile networks. In particular existing 3GPP specifications may lack solutions to enable media synchronization between various Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS devices participating in interactive multimedia sessions.

There are several use cases related to the new feature of media synchronization for 3GPP mobile networks. In one use case i.e. use case PSS and MBMS service synchronization may be implemented among many users. A service provider may desire to provide a live soccer event using PSS or MBMS service that may potentially be accessed by many users. For example a first user may access the PSS or MBMS service in a bus with a first wireless transmit receive unit WTRU such as a tablet personal computer PC and a second user sitting across from the first user may watch the same game on a second WTRU. A goal is scored and both users despite watching on different screens celebrate this event at the same time. In general people who follow the game should observe the scenes synchronously and celebrate at the same time when a goal is scored despite watching on different screens.

In another use case i.e. use case lip sync may occur between media sub streams. For example a first user may use PSS or MBMS service to watch a live soccer game. The first user may listen to the audio of the soccer game using a headphone that is connected to the first user s WTRU. The first WTRU receives and plays out the audio stream. To obtain a better video quality the first user uses another device connected to a big display to receive and play out the video stream of the soccer game. Lip sync between the audio and video may be required for good quality of experience across different devices. There are no existing mechanisms in the 3GPP PSS or MBMS services for a user service to be presented synchronously on multiple WTRUs or for the sub streams e.g. audio and video to be presented synchronously when the sub streams are played back on different WTRUs.

In yet another use case i.e. use case PSS and MBMS service synchronization may be implemented after media transfer. For example a first user may watch a movie on a WTRU in a car. A second user may wants to watch the movie with the first user. The first user may replicate the session on the second user s WTRU using an inter WTRU session transfer feature provided by the first user s service provider. The movie may be simultaneously shown on the WTRUs of the first and second users as a result of inter WTRU session transfer replication.

Furthermore the first user may watch the movie in English and the second user may watch the same movie in Spanish on their respective WTRUs. In this use case it may be desirable that the media presentation is synchronized across the WTRUs of both users so that they can watch the same scenes and discuss the movie. This may create a requirement for multi device synchronization. However it is also possible that the users don t want to synchronize the media presentations on their tablet PCs and that instead they each just watch the show individually. The preference of multi device synchronization may be selected at the session setup or at the inter WTRU session transfer replication procedure.

In another example the first user may want to watch the video from a device connected to a big display and listen to the corresponding audio with a headphone connected to the first user s WTRU. Only the video stream in a multimedia service may be transferred to a big display from a WTRU but the audio stream may still be played out on the WTRU. Alternatively the first user may watch the video on a WTRU and listen to the corresponding audio from a sound system. The audio and video may be required to be synchronized across different devices in such a collaborative session. Loss of synchronization may occur between the audio and video if the multi device synchronization is not addressed. However when the media session is replicated from one WTRU to another WTRU there is no existing mechanism for a media session to be presented synchronously on the two WTRUs or for the sub streams of a multimedia service e.g. audio and video to be presented synchronously as the sub streams are played back on different WTRUs. Further there is no mechanism for the WTRUs to determine whether they synchronously present a replicated media session or not.

Various devices may be implemented to create a synchronization group to achieve media synchronization among the devices.

One example of a group synchronization scheme is the master slave receiver scheme shown in . In the master slave receiver scheme receivers are classified into a master receiver and slave receivers. None of the slave receivers may send any feedback information about the timing of the playout processes. Instead the playout timing is adjusted to that of the master receiver. Only the master receiver WTRU sends multicast its playout timing to all of the other slave receivers WTRU WTRU and WTRU . illustrates such a tree shape scheme where WTRU is the root of the tree and all of the other WTRUs are the children. The traffic goes from WTRU to other WTRUs without any feedback channel. This solution may be suitable for a group synchronization that involves a large number of WTRUs during a broadcast session where RTCP packets from receivers are not possible.

Another example of a group synchronization scheme is the synchronization maestro scheme shown in . This scheme is based on the existence of a synchronization maestro which gathers playout data from all of the receivers WTRU WTRU WTRU and WTRU and corrects the playout timing among the receivers. In order to do this each receiver may send unicast the information to the maestro and the maestro may send multicast the corrected playout timing. This scheme may be used by telecommunications and Internet converged services and protocols for advanced networks TISPAN for Internet protocol television IPTV cross device synchronization. The RTCP protocol may be extended to carry the current presentation time stamps from receivers to the maestro as well as new commands from the maestro to adjust the presentation time stamps in the receivers. A special case of this scheme may be achieved by electing one of the WTRU to be the maestro.

Another example of a group synchronization scheme is the distributed control synchronization scheme shown in . In the distributed control scheme all the receivers may exchange multicast the control packets or use timestamps in media packets to calculate playout delays to achieve group synchronization. Each receiver may decide the reference playout timing from among the output timing of itself and that of the other receivers. The distributed control scheme may adaptively keep the temporal and causal relationships according to the network load under distributed control. illustrates such a fully connected graph between WTRUs. This solution may be suitable for a group synchronization that involves a small number of WTRUs in a social network such as Facebook or Google .

Media synchronization for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH may be used for adaptive HTTP streaming whereby presentation time fields in media presentation descriptors MPD may be used to adjust timeliness of various media segments. Thus it may be the responsibility of an HTTP streaming server or other proxy server that provides MPD data to adjust presentation time to guarantee the synchronous playout of media streams. The multi device synchronization for live video streaming may be achieved by using suggestedPresentationDelay at the MPD level which may be set by the HTTP streaming server. The MPD may carry quality of experience QoE configuration parameters that include initial playout delay . Thus there may be a feedback channel between DASH clients and reporting servers which may be the same HTTP streaming server to send initial playout delay data. For lengthy HTTP streaming clock drift i.e. a difference in clock accuracy of an encoder and decoder may cause the playback to lag behind real time or to interrupt temporarily. HTTP streaming severs may help in solving this clock drift by including the producer reference time box prft in some media segments which may carry the mapping between the decode time stamp and media time stamp with reference to a coordinated universal time UTC wall clock.

Described herein are methods and apparatus used to achieve rich multimedia experience in IMS devices that require an interactive and synchronous playout service. In order to implement the media synchronization between various IMS devices use case and new specifications to the signaling protocols are proposed. In particular real time streaming protocol RTSP may be used to achieve the media synchronization with a new interface between IMS devices and IMS core network components. Also a pure session initiation protocol SIP solution may be implemented that may treat the media synchronization as an IMS service that may be discovery and used through the IMS core network. To enable the implementation of a distributed solution to the media synchronization a presence server may be utilized between IMS WTRUs to provide the means to replay and broadcast messages without impacting other IMS components. In addition synchronized playout may be implemented for the case of PSS streaming session transfer use case described above using a bookmarking service.

In a first server based solution used to solve use case and use case a synchronization server may be deployed inside or outside IMS and may be contacted by a PSS proxy an HTTP proxy or a broadcast multicast service center BM SC . All clients may send playout status messages to a synchronization server and receive a command for adjusting playout timing. For the protocol for PSS proxy RTSP may be used along with GET PARAMETER SET PARAMETER and suggestedPresentationOffset as a attribute in a session description protocol SDP . For an HTTP proxy REST HTTP put get may be used.

In a second server based solution used to solve use case and use case a synchronization server is an IMS application server IMS AS which may be controlled e.g. redirected by a service selection function SSF or serving call session control function S CSCF of an IMS core network IMS CN . For the protocol an SIP method may be used along with INVITE with SDP SUBSCRIBE to join PUBLISH new synchronization group INVITE REFER other WTRUs to synchronization group SUBSCRIBE to join PUBLISH new synchronization group INVITE REFER other WTRUs to synchronization group and the like.

For either of the two server based solutions presented above control may be delegated such that clients may send presentation display delays and join leave synchronization groups. The server may send suggested presentation delay and status info such as reaction to out of synch e.g. drop stretch . The second server may be discovery deployed as part of an IMS network.

In a first client based solution used to solve cases and clients may send messages directly to each other and may be used with master slave or distributed cases. A protocol may be communicated using a presence server. Control may be delegated such that create join leave synchronization groups clients PUBLISH presentation display delays server NOTIFY suggested presentation delay and status info reaction to out of synch drop stretch.

In a first client based solution used to solve use cases and a PSS session transfer may be implemented using the Bookmark suggestedPresentationOffset . A protocol may be established to communicate using a Bookmark service and control may be implemented by an extend XML schema.

If the WTRU receives the suggestedPresentationOffset information from the BM SC or the server it may play out the media for this session according to the suggestedPresentationOffset information in order to have synchronized playout with other WTRUs adhering to the same rule. Specifically the value of suggestedPresentationOffset may specify a delay offset from the time when the first octet of a data unit was generated at the sender that is suggested to be used for presentation of the first octet of the data unit. For a received RTP packet if the wall clock time corresponding to the RTP timestamp carried in the RTP packet is T a WTRU may present the data contained in the first octet of the associated RTP packet to the user at T suggestedPresentationOffset in terms of the wall clock time if synchronized playout with other WTRUs adhering to the same rule is desired.

Once a WTRU receives the SIP response the WTRU may examine the media parameters in the received SDP. The received SDP may contain an a suggestedPresentationOffset value line. The value of suggestedPresentationOffset specifies a delay offset from the time when the first octet of a data unit was generated at the sender that is suggested to be used for presentation of the first octet of the data unit. For a received RTP packet if the wall clock time corresponding to the RTP timestamp carried in the RTP packet is T a WTRU may present the data contained in the first octet of the associated RTP packet to the user at T suggestedPresentationOffset in terms of the wall clock time if synchronized playout with other WTRUs adhering to the same rule is desired.

If a WTRU does not want to have the synchronized playout with other WTRUs it does not have to follow the suggestedPresentationOffset. It is possible for a WTRU to present data behind the suggested presentation time if its network conditions are unsatisfactory and its latency is large . The consequence is that media presentation on the WTRUs may not be synchronized in MBMS. Non synchronized playback may provide an unsatisfactory user experience.

The initial SIP INVITE request includes an SDP offer. The SDP offer may include an a suggestedPresentationOffset value line to indicate the value that the WTRU desires for the suggestedPresentationOffset. The value here may be set to be the expected end to end delay for this WTRU. The SCF may use the values of suggestedPresentationOffset in the SDP offers from one or more WTRUs to determine the value of the suggestedPresentationOffset in its SDP answer sent in the SIP 200 OK response .

Inter WTRU session transfer may be is used for the transfer or replication of an ongoing PSS session from a transferor WTRU to a transferee WTRU . A media session may be replicated from one WTRU to another WTRU. Inter WTRU session transfer and replication for media service may be accomplished using a bookmark. The WTRU may include suggestedPresentationOffset in the bookmark if a synchronized playout of media session is needed. The bookmark may be retrieved by other WTRUs and used to start play back the media with the same delay in all WTRUs participating in the inter WTRU session transfer. For example if WTRU desires to have synchronized media playout with WTRU it may use the suggestedPresentationOffset information in the bookmark to obtain the playout point. Either push or pull mode may be used in the inter WTRU session transfer. In the push mode the session transfer may be initiated by transferor WTRU . In the pull mode the session transfer is initiated by transferee WTRU .

The bookmark may be used to establish the PSS session between WTRU and a PSS server . In order to obtain synchronized media playout with WTRU when the media session is replicated on WTRU at time T in the wall clock time WTRU may present the media unit with an offset equal to T bookmarkcreated time bookmark offset suggestedPresentationOffset from the beginning of the program. If WTRU does not want to have the synchronized media playout with WTRU it does not have to use the suggestedPresentationOffset information in the bookmark to obtain the playout point.

The schemaVersion schema defines two elements schemaVersion and delimiter. The value of the schemaVersion is used in the main nBookmark schemas above. The value of the schemaVersion element and version attribute may be set to 2 in this release of the main nBookmark schema and increased by 1 in every future release where new element s or attribute s are added. The delimiter element may be used in the main nBookmark schema to avoid a schema validation error due to the unique particle attribution rule . The delimiter element may be set to a value of 0 and the element content may be ignored by the receiving device. The file name used for this schema is schema version.xsd.

When a device receives an instantiation of the nBookmark compliant to this schema it determines the schema version required to parse the instantiation. For example if the device supports one or more versions of the nBookmark schema with the schema version attribute then it may use the schema that has the highest schema version attribute value that is equal to or less than the value in the received schemaVersion element.

ProgramId represents the ID of the bookmarked program which shall be globalContentlD retrieved from User Service Description.

SuggestedPresentationOffset the offset in time from the bookmark created time to the bookmark presentation time at a WTRU.

Retrieval count may be set to 0 and incremented by the service provider when the bookmark is retrieved.

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element may be used alone or in combination with any of the other features and elements. In addition the embodiments described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Examples of computer readable media include electronic signals transmitted over wired or wireless connections and computer readable storage media. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register a cache memory a semiconductor memory device a magnetic media e.g. an internal hard disc or a removable disc a magneto optical media and an optical media such as a compact disc CD or a digital versatile disc DVD . A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a WTRU UE terminal base station Node B eNB HNB HeNB AP RNC wireless router or any host computer.

