---

title: Methods and devices for distributing content to an electronic device
abstract: Methods and devices for distributing and receiving content are provided. In one example aspect, a method comprises: receiving a command on a first electronic device to output content at an output device associated with a second electronic device; and in response to receiving the command to output content at the output device associated with the second electronic device: providing content access information from the first electronic device to the second electronic device, and adjusting a security state on the second electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641992&OS=09641992&RS=09641992
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09641992
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150601
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 635 284 filed Sep. 14 2012 which was a national stage entry of PCT IB2012 050367 filed Jan. 26 2012. The contents of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to content output and more particularly to methods and devices for facilitating the distribution of content to electronic devices.

Electronic devices are available in many different shapes and sizes each of which may be best suited for a specific task or specific set of tasks. For example laptop computers smartphones desktop computers tablet computers may each have hardware and software which enables them to perform a specific task or a specific set of tasks. Due to hardware and software constraints some of those electronic devices may not be capable or may not be best suited for performing a particular task. For example since smart phones are generally designed to be highly portable such electronic devices are often equipped with a small display and may therefore not be best suited for displaying video or images.

In some circumstances a user may wish to access content but may find that the electronic device which they are using is poorly suited for accessing such content. Accordingly users of electronic devices may sometimes have a poor user experience when accessing content at such electronic devices.

In one example aspect the present disclosure describes a method performed by a processor. The method includes receiving a command or instruction on a first electronic device to output content at an output device associated with a second electronic device and in response to receiving the command to output content at the output device associated with the second electronic device providing content access information from the first electronic device to the second electronic device and adjusting a security state on the second electronic device.

In another example aspect the present disclosure describes a first electronic device. The first electronic device includes a communication subsystem for communicating with a second electronic device and a processor. The first electronic device also includes a memory containing processor readable instructions for causing the processor to receive a command or instruction to output content at an output device associated with a second electronic device and in response to receiving the command to output content at output device associated with the second electronic device provide content access information from the first electronic device to the second electronic device and adjust a security state on the second electronic device.

In yet another example aspect the present disclosure describes a method performed by a processor. The method includes receiving at a second electronic device information sent from a first electronic device for outputting content at a output device associated with the second electronic device the information including content access information and in response to receiving the information sent from the first electronic device adjusting a security state on the second electronic device and outputting the content from an output device associated with the second electronic device.

In yet a further example aspect the present disclosure describes a second electronic device. The second electronic device includes a communication subsystem for communicating with a first electronic device and an output interface associated with an output device. The second electronic device also includes a processor and a memory. The memory contains processor readable instructions for causing the processor to receive information for outputting content at an output device associated with the second electronic device the information being received from a first electronic device the information including content access information and in response to receiving the information sent from the electronic device adjusting a security state on the second electronic device and outputting the content from an output device associated with the second electronic device.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed descriptions in conjunction with the drawings.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example content sharing system . The content system is configured to allow a first electronic device to cause a second electronic device and or a third electronic device to output content. That is a user may interact with the first electronic device to cause content to be output from the second electronic device and in at least some example embodiments the third electronic device .

In the example embodiments illustrated the first electronic device is a mobile communication device . More specifically in the example embodiment illustrated the first electronic device is a smartphone. However in other example embodiments the first electronic device may take other forms. For example in some example embodiments the first electronic device may be a tablet computer a wearable computer such as a watch a notebook notepad or a laptop computer a desktop computer or a television. The first electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed herein.

Similarly in the example embodiment illustrated the second electronic device is illustrated as a tablet computer. However the second electronic device may take other forms. By way of example the second electronic device may be a notebook notepad or a laptop computer a desktop computer a wearable computer such as a watch a television or a mobile communication device.

Similarly while the third electronic device is illustrated as a television in the example embodiment of the third electronic device may also take other forms. For example the third electronic device may be a mobile communication device a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer a notebook notepad or a laptop computer or desktop computer or another electronic device not specifically listed herein.

The first electronic device and the second electronic device are communicatively connected to one another. That is the first electronic device and the second electronic device are each equipped with one or more communication subsystems which allow these electronic devices to communicate with one another. In the example embodiment of the first electronic device and the second electronic device communicate via a network similarly the first electronic device is illustrated as communicating with the third electronic device via the network . The network may include a private network and or a public network such as the Internet. For example in some example embodiments the first electronic device and or the second electronic device are configured for Wi Fi communications with respective network gateways.

In other example embodiments the network may not be utilized. Instead the first electronic device may connect to the second electronic device and in some example embodiments the third electronic device via a more direct connection. For example in some example embodiments the first electronic device may connect directly to the second electronic device via a Wi Fi connection. Similarly in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device may connect to the second electronic device via a Bluetooth connection. Similarly in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device may connect to the second electronic device via a near field communication NFC connection. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device may be configured to communicate with the second electronic device via other short range communication technology. That is a short range connection may be established between the first electronic device and the second electronic device .

Accordingly after a connection is established between the first electronic device and the second electronic device the first electronic device may cause content to be output from an output device such as a display associated with the second electronic device . For example a user receiving an email on the first electronic device may command the first electronic device to cause the second electronic device to open the email or an attachment in that email. That is rather than simply displaying content at a display associated with the first electronic device a user may be permitted to display the content or otherwise output the content using the second electronic device and its associated output device.

As will be described in greater detail below with reference to in at least some example embodiments when the first electronic device instructs the second electronic device to output content at a display on the second electronic device a security state on the second electronic device may automatically be adjusted. For example if the second electronic device is currently in a locked state in which one or more features of the second electronic device are not available without entry of a password or other authentication information then the second electronic device may be automatically unlocked. More particularly in at least some example embodiments if the first electronic device and the second electronic device have a pre existing trusted relationship in which a user of the second electronic device has indicated that the first electronic device should be trusted then in response to receiving a command on the first electronic device to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device the content will be output from the second electronic device and if the second electronic device is in a higher level security state such as a device locked state then the second electronic device may be placed in a lower level security state such as a device unlocked state.

An overview having been provided reference will now be made to which illustrates an example first electronic device . In the illustrated example embodiment the first electronic device is a mobile communication device . In at least some example embodiments the mobile communication device is a two way communication device having data and possibly voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the first electronic device in various example embodiments the first electronic device may be a multi mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a tablet computer such as a slate computer a wearable computer such as a watch a PDA personal digital assistant a computer system such as a desktop netbook laptop or notebook computer system or a television.

A smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advance computing capability than a basic non smart cellular phone. For example a smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

A tablet computer which may also be referred to as a tablet is an electronic device which is generally larger than a mobile phone such as a smartphone or personal digital assistant. Many mobile phones or personal digital assistants are designed to be pocket sized. That is mobile phones or personal digital assistants are generally small enough to be carried by a person easily often in a shirt or pant pocket while tablet computers are larger and may not fit within pant pockets. For example many tablet computers have a height which is seven inches 7 or more. In some example embodiments the tablet computer may be a slate computer. A slate computer is a tablet computer which does not include a dedicated keyboard. A slate computer may allow for text input through the use of a virtual keyboard or an external keyboard which connects to the slate computer via a wired or wireless connection.

In other example embodiments the first electronic device may be of a type not specifically listed above.

The mobile communication device of includes a housing not shown which houses components of the mobile communication device . Internal components of the mobile communication device may be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The mobile communication device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile communication device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be a liquid crystal display LCD one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The mobile communication device may include a touchscreen display in some example embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile communication device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the mobile communication device is intended to operate.

The mobile communication device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile communication device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a pointing or navigational tool input device such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile communication device such as receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some example embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the mobile communication device .

The mobile communication device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the mobile communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile communication device by its user and other data. The data may also include content access information trusted relationship information and or authorization information .

As will be discussed in greater detail below the content access information may be information which may be used to access specific content. In some example embodiments the content access information may be a reference such as a location address or other identifier which allows an electronic device to retrieve the content. By way of example in at least some embodiments the content access information may be a link or pointer such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL which specifies a location at which content may be retrieved. In at least some embodiments the content may be a file such as an audio file video file text file document and or multimedia file.

In at least some example embodiments the data may include content. That is in at least some embodiments the content may be stored on the memory of the first electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the content may be defined by the content access information . That is the content may be included in the content access information .

The trusted relationship information may be information which allows the first electronic device to connect to another electronic device such as the second electronic device of . That is the trusted relationship information may identify another electronic device which has a trusted relationship with the first electronic device . The trusted relationship information may be used to allow the first electronic device to connect to the other electronic device . In at least some embodiments the trusted relationship information may be used by the first electronic device to allow the first electronic device to cause the other electronic device which may be a second electronic device of to transition to a lower level security state.

In at least some example embodiments the data may include authorization information . The authorization information may be private information which is known available and or interpretable by the first electronic device and or the second electronic device but which is not publicly available i.e. available to other non trusted electronic devices . In at least some example embodiments the authorization information may be used by the first electronic device to permit the first electronic device to cause the second electronic device to unlock or otherwise transition to a lower level security mode. For example when the first electronic device wishes to unlock the second electronic device it may provide the authorization information to the second electronic device to demonstrate to the second electronic device that the first electronic device has authority to unlock the second electronic device . The second electronic device may authenticate the received authorization information before unlocking itself.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the mobile communication device memory.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system. The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the mobile communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile communication device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the mobile communication device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing.

The mobile communication device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile communication device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the mobile communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the mobile communication device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or webpage download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded webpage may be further processed by a web browser or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile communication device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile communication device provides telephony functions and may operate as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile communication device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules such as for example a content sharing module and or a pairing module . In the example embodiment of the content sharing module and pairing module are illustrated as being implemented as separate stand alone applications but in other example embodiments one or more of these modules could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application . Furthermore the functions of the pairing module and the content sharing module could be provided by a single module.

The content sharing module may be configured to allow the first electronic device which may be the mobile communication device to cause content to be output from an output device associated with another electronic device e.g. a second electronic device . That is the content sharing module may be configured to share content with another electronic device. In at least some example embodiments the content sharing module may do so by sending the content access information to the other electronic device.

In at least some example embodiments when sharing such content with another electronic device the content sharing module may cause that other electronic device to transition to a lower level security mode. For example if the other electronic device is operating in a device locked state in which one or more functions or features of that electronic device are locked then the other electronic device may be automatically unlocked by the content sharing module . Functions and features of the content sharing module will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to and .

The pairing module may be configured to allow the first electronic device to establish a trusted relationship with another electronic device such as the second electronic device . More particularly the pairing module may perform a pairing routine during which a secure connection with another electronic device is established. During the pairing routine the trusted relationship information may be stored to memory of the first electronic device . The trusted relationship information may include information which identifies the other electronic device. The trusted relationship information may later be used to allow the first electronic device to connect to the second electronic device when the first electronic device and the second electronic device are in wireless communication range of one another. Functions and features of the pairing module will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

The mobile communication device may include a range of additional software applications including for example a notepad application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram for an example second electronic device . The second electronic device is configured to accept a command or instruction from the first electronic device of to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device . In response to receiving such a command the second electronic device may output the content from the output device associated with the second electronic device and may also adjust security state on the second electronic device .

The second electronic device may be of a variety of different types. For example in some example embodiments the second electronic device is a tablet computer. In other example embodiments the second electronic device is a notebook laptop or netbook style computer. In yet further example embodiments the second electronic device is a mobile communication device of such as a cellular phone smartphone or other style mobile communication device. For example in some example embodiments the second electronic device may be a mobile communication device of the type described above with reference to . In yet further example embodiments the second electronic device may be a wearable computer such as a watch. In some example embodiments the second electronic device may be a television. The second electronic device may be of other types not specifically listed herein.

The second electronic device includes a controller including one or more processor which controls the overall operation of the second electronic device . The second electronic device may include a memory which is communicatively connected to the processor . The memory may be configured to provide data stored in the memory to the processor . For example the memory may include processor readable instructions for causing the processor to perform a method such as for example one or more of the methods described below with reference to .

While the memory is illustrated as a single component it will typically include multiple memory components of various types. For example the memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD flash memory or other types of memory. It will be appreciated that each of these various types of memory will be best suited for different purposes and applications.

The processor may operate under stored program control and may execute software modules stored on the memory . The software modules may in at least some example embodiments included a pairing module . The pairing module may be configured to allow the second electronic device to establish a trusted relationship with the first electronic device . By way of example in at least some example embodiments the pairing module is a Bluetooth pairing module which executes a Bluetooth pairing algorithm. In at least some example embodiments during the pairing algorithm performed by the pairing module user authentication may be required at the second electronic device and in at least some example embodiments at the first electronic device . That is during the pairing algorithm which is performed by the pairing module a user may be required to verify or confirm that a trusted relationship should be created between the first electronic device and the second electronic device .

The pairing module of the second electronic device may therefore work together with a corresponding pairing module of of the first electronic device . For example in some example embodiments one or more of the pairing modules of the first electronic device and or the second electronic device may be configured to cause a display associated with that electronic device to display a pass code or password. In order to complete the pairing process input of that pass code or password may be required on one or both of the first electronic device or the second electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments during the pairing process the pairing module may create and store trusted relationship information in memory of the second electronic device . The trusted relationship information may identify the first electronic device and may be used to allow the second electronic device to remember that the first electronic device is trusted by the second electronic device . That is the trusted relationship information may be used by the second electronic device so that the second electronic device is subsequently aware that a trusted relationship exists with the first electronic device . The storage of the trusted relationship information may in at least some example embodiments allow the electronic devices to subsequently connect to one another. For example in some example embodiments after the trusted relationship is established through the pairing modules of when the electronic devices are within range to communicate over a short range connection such as a Bluetooth connection the devices can automatically connect to one another to allow those devices to send data to and or receive data from one another. That is once a trusted relationship is established between the first electronic device and the second electronic device the saved trusted relationship information allows those electronic devices to be automatically connected to one another at some time in the future.

An example method of establishing a trust relationship between the first electronic device and the second electronic device will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to . In at least some example embodiments the pairing module of the second electronic device may cooperate with the pairing module of the first electronic device in order to perform the method of . That is in at least some example embodiments the pairing modules of may contain processor readable instructions which when executed by the processor of the respective devices cause that processor to perform the method of .

The software modules may in at least some example embodiments include a security module . The security module may for example be configured to control security states on the second electronic device . That is the security module may permit the second electronic device to operate in multiple security states. For example the security module may permit the second electronic device to selectively operate in a higher level security state and also in a relatively lower level security state.

In the higher level security state one or more features of the second electronic device may be disabled. That is one or more features which are available on the second electronic device when the second electronic device is in the lower level security state may be unavailable when the second electronic device is in the higher level security state. In some example embodiments the higher level security state may be a device locked state. In some example embodiments during the device locked state many of the features of the second electronic device may be disabled. For example the second electronic device may be prohibited from accessing one or more applications or data on the second electronic device when the second electronic device is in the device locked state. In example embodiment in which the higher level security state is a device locked state the lower level security state may be a device unlocked state. In the device unlocked state features which were locked from use in the device locked state may be available. For example a user may be permitted to access applications or data which were unavailable during the device locked state.

The security module may in response to one or more predefined trigger conditions adjust the security state on the second electronic device . For example in some example embodiments when the second electronic device is operating in the higher level security state such as the device locked state authentication information may be input into the second electronic device to transition the second electronic device from a higher level security state to a lower level security state. That is the security module may provide a graphical user interface or another interface which allows a user of the second electronic device to input authentication information such as a user name password pass code or other authentication information. In response to receiving such information the security module may authenticate the received information in order to ensure that the user is authorized to transition the second electronic device to a lower level security state such as a device unlocked state. For example the second electronic device may compare received authentication information to other authentication information not shown which may be stored in memory in a secure fashion. If the received authentication information matches the authentication information stored in memory then the security module may adjust the security state of the second electronic device . More particularly the security module may transition the second electronic device to a lower level security state such as a device unlocked state.

The software modules may in at least some example embodiments include a content sharing module . The content sharing module may be configured to receive information such as commands from trusted electronic devices. For example the content sharing module may be configured to receive information from the first electronic device . More particularly the content sharing module of the second electronic device may be configured to receive information sent from a first electronic device for outputting content at the second electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the received information may be an instruction which instructs the second electronic device to output specified content to an output device associated with that second electronic device . In some example embodiments the information received from the first electronic device may include content access information of . The content access information may for example be a reference to the content which the first electronic device would like the second electronic device to output. For example the reference may be a uniform resource locator URL or another link pointer or identifier which informs the content sharing module of the specific content which is to be displayed. In response to receiving such a reference the content sharing module may retrieve the specified content using the reference and may automatically output the content to an output device associated with the second electronic device . For example in some example embodiments the content may be displayed on a display associated with the second electronic device .

In some example embodiments rather than simply sending a reference such as a link pointer or other identifier to the content the first electronic device may send the second electronic device content access information of which includes the content itself. That is the first electronic device may transmit content to the second electronic device and the content may be received at the second electronic device . In response to receiving the content the content sharing module may cause the received content to be output to an output device associated with the second electronic device . The content sharing module will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The content in which the first electronic device effectively instructs the second electronic device to display play access or otherwise output may for example be an electronic message a webpage an electronic document containing text audio video an image or an email attachment. For example in some example embodiments the content may be an attachment from an email the body or content of an email a webpage which is available through the internet a music file a video file such as a movie a portable document format PDF file a Microsoft Word file or another word processing file an application such as a game or other types of content not specifically listed herein. In at least some example embodiments the content may be referred to as digital content.

In at least some example embodiments in order to output the content at the output device the second electronic device may be configured to load the content within an associated application which is configured for handling such content. That is in at least some example embodiments in response to receiving content access information which effectively instructs the second electronic device to output specified content the second electronic device may automatically launch an application which is configured for outputting such content and may automatically load the specified content in that application. For example where the content is a video a video player application may be launched on the second electronic device and the video may be loaded into the video player application.

In at least some example embodiments when a first electronic device which has a trusted relationship with the second electronic device instructs the second electronic device to output specified content at an output device associated with the second electronic device then the second electronic device may automatically adjust a security state. That is when the first electronic device instructs or commands the second electronic device to output content for example when the first electronic device sends the second electronic device content access information of which effectively instructs the second electronic device to output the specified content if the second electronic device is currently operating in a higher level security state such as a device locked state it may automatically transition to a lower level security state such as a device unlocked state. That is the fact that a user of a trusted device i.e. the first electronic device wishes to use the output resources of the second electronic device may be treated as implicit authorization to adjust a security state on the electronic device for example by unlocking the second electronic device .

Accordingly when a user commands the first electronic device to output content at the second electronic device if the second electronic device is in a higher level security state it is automatically transitioned to a lower level security state. That is in at least some example embodiments a user is not required to input their authentication information on either the first electronic device or the second electronic device to unlock the second electronic device . A command which is received at an unlocked first electronic device and which instructs the first electronic device to cause a second electronic device to output content may effectively be treated as a command to unlock the second electronic device i.e. to transition the second electronic device to a lower level security state if the first electronic device and the second electronic device have a pre existing trusted relationship.

Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the content sharing module and or the security module may cause the second electronic device to transition to a lower level security state in response to receiving an instruction to output content from a first electronic device which has a trusted relationship with the second electronic device .

In some example embodiments in order to securely unlock the second electronic device by command from the first electronic device the first electronic device and the second electronic device may each store authorization information of . In at least some example embodiments the authorization information may be the same authentication information which is used by the security module as a password or pass code and which may be input by a user of the second electronic device directly into the second electronic device to unlock the second electronic device . In some example embodiments the authorization information may be created during a pairing process which is performed by the pairing module . That is the authorization information may be part of the trusted relationship information which is created when the devices are paired with one another.

In some example embodiments the first electronic device may effectively adjust the security state on the second electronic device by sending the authorization information from the first electronic device to the second electronic device . The authorization information may be secure information for authorizing the second electronic device to adjust its security state. The second electronic device may upon receiving the authorization information compare the received authorization information to its own authorization information which is stored in memory . If the authorization information which is received from the first electronic device corresponds to the authorization information which is included in the memory then the second electronic device may adjust the security state of the second electronic device if the second electronic device is currently operating in the higher level security state. That is if this criterion is met then the second electronic device may transition to the lower level security state e.g. the device unlocked state .

Functions and features of the content sharing module will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

The second electronic device may include one or more output interfaces which are configured to interact with one or more output devices . The output interface may be controlled by the processor . In some example embodiments one or more of the output devices of the second electronic device may be a display. For example the display may in at least some example embodiments be a liquid crystal display LCD . In other example embodiments the display may be a light emitting diode LED display. In at least some example embodiments the display may be a touch screen display which is configured to display content and also to receive input via a touch sensitive overlay. Other types of displays may be used in other example embodiments. Accordingly in example embodiments in which the output devices include a display one or more of the output interfaces of the second electronic device may be a display interface. By way of example the display interface may be a video card. The display interface may control output to the display. For example the display interface may create video signals which are capable of being processed by the display.

In at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may include an audio based output interface which is connected to an audio based output device such as a speaker. That is in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may be equipped to output audio through one or more speakers. Other types of output devices and output interfaces may be utilized in other example embodiments.

The second electronic device may include one or more communication subsystems for communicating with other systems servers or electronic devices. For example a communication subsystem may be provided on the second electronic device to allow the second electronic device to communicate with the first electronic device . As described above with reference to in some example embodiments the second electronic device may communicate with the first electronic device via a network of . In other example embodiments the communication subsystem may allow the second electronic device to communicate more directly with the first electronic device . That is in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device and the second electronic device may communicate with one another through a direct connection such as a direct wireless connection. In at least some example embodiments the communication subsystem may be a wireless communication interface such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth or may be a communication subsystem which is configured to communicate via wired communications such as Ethernet communications. The communication subsystem may take other forms apart from those specifically listed herein.

The second electronic device may include other features components or subsystems apart from those specifically discussed herein. By way of example the second electronic device will include a power subsystem which interfaces with a power source for providing electrical power to the second electronic device and its components. By way of further example the second electronic device may include one or more input devices. The input devices may include a navigational input device and or an alpha numeric input device. By way of further example the input devices may include a mouse a track pad a track ball a touch screen overlay or another input device not specifically listed herein. In at least some example embodiments the input device may be used for the input of authentication information which may be used by the security module to transition the second electronic device from a higher level security state e.g. a device locked state to a lower level security state e.g. a device unlocked state . For example the input device may be used to input a password to unlock a locked second electronic device .

The software modules may be logically or physically organized in a manner that is different than the manner illustrated in . By way of example the features described herein with reference to the content sharing module the pairing module and or the security module may be divided or combined into a greater number or lesser number of software modules. For example functions which are described with reference to a single software application or module may be provided by a plurality of software applications or modules. Similarly functions which are described with reference to multiple software applications or modules may be provided by a single software application or module. In some example embodiments the features of one or more of the content sharing module the pairing module or the security module may be provided by an operating system which controls operations on the second electronic device . Similarly in at least some example embodiments the functions of two or more of these modules may be combined into a single module. Thus the software modules described with reference to represent one possible assignment of features to software modules. However such features may be organized in other ways in other example embodiments.

Furthermore the second electronic device may include other software applications or modules which provide features which are not specifically discussed herein. For example the second electronic device may include operating system software which controls the overall operation of the second electronic device .

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example method for distributing content to a second electronic device from a first electronic device . The method includes features which may be provided by a first electronic device such as the mobile communication device of . More particularly one or more applications or modules associated with the first electronic device such as the content sharing module of may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the first electronic device to perform the method of . That is in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device is configured to perform the method of .

In at least some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method of may be provided in whole or in part by another system software application module or device apart from those specifically listed above. For example in at least some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method may be performed at least in part by the second electronic device of .

At a command may be received on the first electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the command may be received via one or more input interfaces of . For example the command may be received via a keyboard control button microphone touch sensitive overlay or another input interface. In at least some example embodiments the command may be a command to output content at an output device of associated with a second electronic device of .

At the first electronic device determines whether the command is a command to output content at an output device of associated with the second electronic device . For example the first electronic device determines whether the received input corresponds to a predetermined type of input. By way of example in some example embodiments a command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device may be input into the first electronic device by selecting a specific selectable interface element such as an icon or button which is displayed on a display of the first electronic device . That is a user may use an input interface to select such an interface element and to command the first electronic device to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device .

In other example embodiments the input which is associated with a command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device may be an input of another type. For example in at least some example embodiments the input may correspond to a predetermined gesture. The gesture based input may for example be input onto a touch screen display associated with the first electronic device . In other example embodiments the gesture based input may be sensed by another sensor associated with the first electronic device . For example in some example embodiments the predetermined gesture may require movement of the first electronic device . For example a movement sensor on the first electronic device such as an accelerometer may be used to detect movement of the first electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments movement of the first electronic device in a predetermined pattern may be interpreted by the first electronic device as a command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device . That is at of the first electronic device may determine whether movement of the first electronic device corresponds to movement which is associated with a command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device .

In other example embodiments the command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device may be received at the first electronic device via a near field communication NFC sensor. For example in some example embodiments if a near field communication sensor on the first electronic device and a near field communication sensor on the second electronic device are placed with in close proximity to one another then the first electronic device may determine that a command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device has been received at the first electronic device .

If at the first electronic device determines that the command which was received at the first electronic device at was not a command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device then at the first electronic device may perform a function which is associated with the received command.

If however the first electronic device determines at that a command to output content at an output device associated with a second electronic device was received at then at the first electronic device may provide content access information to the second electronic device . That is at the first electronic device may effectively instruct the second electronic device to output the content at an output device of associated with the second electronic device . The content access information which is sent from the first electronic device to the second electronic device at informs the second electronic device of the specific content which is to be output from the second electronic device . In some example embodiments the content access information which is sent from the first electronic device to the second electronic device may include the content itself. That is the first electronic device may send the second electronic device the specific content which is to be output from the output device associated with the second electronic device . The content may for example be sent in the form of one or more files.

In other example embodiments the first electronic device may not send the content itself to the second electronic device . Instead the first electronic device may send content access information which includes a reference to the content. The reference allows the second electronic device to then retrieve the content. For example the reference may be a link pointer or other identifier which allows the second electronic device to identify and retrieve the content. By way of example in some example embodiments the reference may be in the form of a Uniform Resource Locator URL . In at least some example embodiments the reference may be an address which is associated with the content. That is the reference may identify a location on storage such as a memory which is accessible to the second electronic device . For example the reference may identify a location in local memory of the second electronic device where the content is stored. In other example embodiments the reference may identify a location on a remote server such as a web server where the content is stored. The reference allows the second electronic device to retrieve the content so that the second electronic device may output the content to the output device associated with the second electronic device . In at least example embodiments such retrieval may be performed automatically by the second electronic device in response to receiving the reference.

The content may be any type of digital content. By way of example in some example embodiments the content may be an electronic message a webpage an electronic document containing text audio video an image or an email attachment. In at least some example embodiments the content may be a word processing document such as a Microsoft Word document. In other example embodiments the content may be a movie or a television show or another type of video. In other example embodiments the content may be a song or other musical composition or audio based file. Other types of content apart from those specifically discussed herein may also be used in other example embodiments.

Accordingly at the first electronic device may command the second electronic device to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device . In some example embodiments this command may be a command to display content at a display associated with the second electronic device i.e. the output device may include a display . In some example embodiments this command may include a command to output audio on an audio device such as a speaker associated with the second electronic device i.e. the output device may include an audio device .

At the first electronic device may in response to receiving a command to output the content at the output device associated with the second electronic device adjust a security state on the second electronic device . In at least example embodiments the security state on the second electronic device may be adjusted automatically without direct instructions to do so from a user. That is in at least example embodiments the security state on the second electronic device may be automatically adjusted as a result of the receipt of a command on the first electronic device to output content at an output device associated with the second device .

Accordingly in at least some example embodiments at the first electronic device may cause the second electronic device to transition from a higher level security state to a lower level security state. In at least some example embodiments may only occur i.e. the security state of the second electronic device may only be adjusted if the second electronic device is operating in a higher level security state. That is where the second electronic device is already operating in a lower level security state it may be unnecessary to transition the second electronic device to the lower level security state. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments at the first electronic device and or the second electronic device may determine whether the second electronic device is currently operating in a higher level security state and may only adjust the security state of the second electronic device if the second electronic device is operating in the higher level security state.

In at least some example embodiments the higher level security state is a device locked state. The device locked state is a state in which one or more features of the second electronic device are disabled and in which authentication information may be input into the second electronic device to transition the second electronic device from the device locked state to a lower level security state which may be referred to as a device unlocked state. In at least some such example embodiments at the first electronic device causes the second electronic device to transition from the device locked state to the device unlocked state.

In at least some example embodiments the first electronic device may specifically instruct the second electronic device to transition to the lower level security state. For example in some example embodiments the first electronic device may adjust the security state on the second electronic device by sending authorization information of from the first electronic device to the second electronic device . The authorization information may be secure information for authorizing the second electronic device to adjust the security state. In at least some example embodiments the authorization information may be information which is established when a trusted relationship is created between the first electronic device and second electronic device . For example the authorization information may be created during a pairing process such as the process described below with reference to . In at least some example embodiments in which the first electronic device sends authorization information to the second electronic device the second electronic device is configured to authenticate the authorization information . For example in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may compare the received authorization information with authorization information of which is stored on the second electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may only transition the second electronic device to the lower level security state if the received authorization information of corresponds to the stored authorization information of .

In other example embodiments the first electronic device may not specifically instruct the second electronic device to unlock or otherwise transition to a lower level security state. Instead if a pre existing trusted relationship exists between the first electronic device and the second electronic device then the second electronic device may automatically transition to the lower level security state upon receiving the content access information provided at . That is the fact that a trusted electronic device has commanded the second electronic device to output the content at its output device of may be interpreted as a command to adjust the security state on a second electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments one or more predetermined conditions must exist at the first electronic device and or the second electronic device before the method may be performed and or completed. In such example embodiments the first electronic device and or the second electronic device may be configured to determine whether such conditions exist before performing the method.

For example in some example embodiments the method may be performed in response to receipt of content of a predetermined type. For example the method may be performed if content is received which the first electronic device determines would be best output to the second electronic device . For example where the first electronic device is a mobile communication device such as a smartphone the mobile communication device may determine that video content is best viewed from an output device associated with the second electronic device . In such example embodiments when it is determined that content would be better viewed or otherwise output from an output device associated with the second electronic device then the method of may be performed.

Similarly in another precondition for the method to operate may require that communications between the first electronic device and the second electronic device be available. For example the method may not operate where communications are not available between the first electronic device and the second electronic device i.e. since the electronic devices would be unable to exchange data . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device may determine whether communications with the second electronic device are available and may only perform the method if it is determined that such communications are currently available.

Similarly in at least some example embodiments communications of a predetermined type must be available before the method will be performed. For example in order to ensure that the second electronic device is not placed into a lower level security state when an unauthorized user may have access to the second electronic device without supervision from an authorized user the method may only be performed when short range communications are available. That is the method may only be performed if the first electronic device and the second electronic device are in range to communicate over a short range connection. The short range connection may for example be a Wi Fi connection a Bluetooth connection and or a near field communication NFC connection. Other types of short range communications may be used in other example embodiments. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device may determine if a short range connection to the second electronic device is available and may only perform the method of if the short range connection is available. This ensures that the user of the first electronic device is likely in the vicinity of the second electronic device when the second electronic device is transitioned to the lower level security state.

By way of further example in some example embodiments a trusted relationship between the first electronic device and the second electronic device must exist before the method will be performed or before one or more parts of the method will be performed. For example if a trusted relationship does not exist then the first electronic device may not be permitted to adjust the security state of the second electronic device . That is if a trusted relationship does not exist then of may not be performed. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device determines if a trusted relationship exists with the second electronic device . In at least some example embodiments one or more features of the method of will only be performed if it is determined that a trusted relationship exists between the first electronic device and the second electronic device .

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example method of receiving distributed content from a first electronic device . A method includes features which may be performed by the second electronic device of . More particularly one or more applications or modules associated with the second electronic device such as the content sharing module may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the second electronic device to perform the method of . That is in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device is configured to perform the method of . While the method may be performed by the content sharing module in some example embodiments in other example embodiments another software application or module may be configured to perform the method of . That is any one or more of the features of the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other systems software applications devices or modules apart from those specifically discussed herein.

The method for receiving distributed content which is illustrated in is shown in flowchart form. At the second electronic device receives information sent from a first electronic device for outputting the content at an output device associated with the second electronic device . The information includes content access information which identifies locates links to points to and or defines content. Accordingly the information received at may be the information which is sent at of . Thus the information received at of may have the features and characteristics of the content access information of described above with reference to of . For example the content access information received at may include a reference to the content which is to be output on an output device associated with the second electronic device . The reference may for example be a link pointer address or other identifier associated with the content. The reference may allow the second electronic device to locate identify and or retrieve the content.

As described in greater detail above with reference to the content to access information may include the content itself. That is the content access information may define the content which is to be output on an output device associated with the second electronic device . By way of example in some example embodiments the content may be streamed from the first electronic device to the second electronic device .

At the second electronic device may determine if the received information is of a predetermined form or type which is associated with a command to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device . That is the second electronic device may attempt to determine whether the received information acts as a command to output content through an output device associated with the second electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the information received at may also include additional information which may be used by the second electronic device to transition the second electronic device to a lower level security state. For example the information may include a command to adjust the security state on the second electronic device . In some example embodiments the information may include authorization information . The authorization information is secure information for authorizing a second electronic device to adjust the security state.

In at least some example embodiments in response to receiving the information sent from the first electronic device the second electronic device may at adjust a security state on the second electronic device . In at least some example embodiments at the second electronic device may transition the second electronic device from a higher level security state such as a device locked state to a lower level security state such as a device unlocked state. As noted previously a device locked state is a state in which one or more features of the second electronic device are disabled and in which authentication information may be input into the second electronic device to transition the second electronic device from the device locked state to the device unlocked state. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments when the first electronic device effectively commands the second electronic device to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device i.e. at then the security state of the second electronic device may be automatically adjusted if the second electronic device is currently operating in a higher level security state. That is the security state on the second electronic device may be adjusted without direct input from a user to do so. For example when the second electronic device is in a device locked state a user may not be required to input their password or other authentication information using an input device associated with the second electronic device . Instead the second electronic device may be automatically unlocked.

In at least some example embodiments before the security state of the second electronic device is adjusted at one or more predetermined conditions must exist. For example in at least some example embodiments the security state is only adjusted if the second electronic device is currently operating in a higher level security state. That is if the second electronic device is currently operating in a lower level security state then security state may not be adjusted. In at least some such example embodiments prior to adjusting the security state the second electronic device may determine whether the second electronic device is operating in the higher level security state.

Similarly in at least some example embodiments the security state of the second electronic device will only be adjusted if the information received at was received from an electronic device which is considered by the second electronic device to be a trusted electronic device. For example in some example embodiments the security state may only be adjusted if the first electronic device which sent the information and the second electronic device have a pre existing trusted relationship. In at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may determine if the electronic device from which the information was received at is a trusted electronic device and may only adjust the security state if the electronic device is determined to be trusted. That is if no pre existing trusted relationship exists then the second electronic device may not adjust the security state. More particularly the security state may be adjusted if the first electronic device and the second electronic device have a trusted relationship but may not be adjusted if the first electronic device and the second electronic device do not have a trusted relationship.

In at least some example embodiments the first electronic device and the second electronic device may only be able to communicate if they have a trusted relationship. That is in at least some example embodiments the fact that the first electronic device was able to communicate with the second electronic device i.e. was able to send the information which was received at may be indicative of the fact that a pre existing trusted relationship exists. That is the second electronic device may determine that the first electronic device is a trusted electronic device and is therefore able to adjust the security state of the second electronic device if the first electronic device was able to connect to the second electronic device to send the information.

In other example embodiments in order to unlock or otherwise adjust the security state of the second electronic device the first electronic device may be required to provide authorization information of . The authorization information may for example be special information which is used by the first electronic device in order to unlock the second electronic device . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the information received at may include the authorization information . In such example embodiments before adjusting the security state at the second electronic device may determine if the received authorization information is valid. That is the second electronic device may attempt to authenticate the authorization information . By way of example in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may compare the received authorization information to authorization information which is stored on the second electronic device . If the received authorization information is determined to correspond to the stored authorization information then the second electronic device may cause the second electronic device to transition to a lower level security state.

In at least some example embodiments another precondition which must exist before the security state of the second electronic device will be adjusted may require that the first electronic device and the second electronic device be communicating over a short range connections. That is to provide greater security the second electronic device may not switch security states if the first electronic device and the second electronic device are connected over a long range connection. By way of example in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may transition its security state if it is connected to the first electronic device via a Wi Fi connection and or a Bluetooth connection and or a Near Field Communication NFC connection. However in at least some example embodiments the security state may not be adjusted if the first electronic device is connected to the second electronic device via a communication method or protocol which may be a long range connection method. For example in at least some example embodiments the security state may not be transitioned to the lower level security state if the electronic devices are connected over the Internet. By requiring a short range connection to unlock the second electronic device greater security may be provided. That is the use of a short range connection may better ensure that unauthorized users do not access the second electronic device . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments prior to adjusting the security state at the second electronic device may determine the type of connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . That is in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may attempt to determine whether the first electronic device is situated in close proximity to the second electronic device and may only adjust the security state if the electronic devices are determined to be in close proximity to one another.

Referring still to in at least some example embodiments at the second electronic device may automatically retrieve the content. For example where the information received at included a reference to the content i.e. such as a locator address link pointer or other identifier then the second electronic device may use the reference to locate identify and or retrieve the content. By way of example in some example embodiments the reference may be in the form of a link such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL . In such example embodiments the second electronic device may use the URL to access one or more remote servers and to retrieve the content. Retrieving the content may include for example downloading the content to the second electronic device and or streaming the content to the second electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments it may not be necessary at to retrieve the content. For example in at least some example embodiments the information which is received at may define the content itself. That is the first electronic device may send the second electronic device the content. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments may not be performed.

At in response to receiving the information sent from the first electronic device at the second electronic device may output the content at an output device associated with the second electronic device . For example in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may display content at a display associated with the second electronic device . For example where the content is an electronic document such as a webpage or a word processing document or other document the document may be displayed on a display. Similarly where the content is an audio file the content may be output through a speaker. In at least some example embodiments at the content may be output to two or more output devices . For example where the content is a video a visual component of the video may be displayed on a display and an audible component of the video may be output through a speaker.

The second electronic device may be configured to handle different types of content in different manners. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the second electronic device may determine the type of the content before outputting the content at . Based on the type of the content the second electronic device may determine how to handle the content.

In some example embodiments prior to outputting the content the second electronic device may launch an application which is equipped to handle the content. For example based on the type of the content the second electronic device may open the content in an appropriate application. For example if the content is a video the second electronic device may launch a video player and may open the video in the video player and begin playback of the video through the video player. Similarly where the content is audio the second electronic device may launch an audio player and may begin playback of the audio through an associated audio application.

In at least some example embodiments one or more predetermined conditions must exist before the content will be output at . In at least some example embodiments the content will only output if one or more of the predetermined conditions discussed above with reference to exist. For example in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device and the second electronic device must have a trusted relationship before the content will be output on the second electronic device . Similarly in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device and the second electronic device must be located in close proximity to one another before the content will be output at . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments at the second electronic device may determine whether one or more predetermined conditions exist and may only output the content at the output device if those predetermined conditions are found to exist.

As noted previously one or more of the features of the methods of may only be performed if the first electronic device and the second electronic device have a pre existing trusted relationship. That is if no trusted relationship exists between the first electronic device and the second electronic device then one or more of the features of the methods of and or may not be performed. For example in at least some example embodiments the security state of the second electronic device may not be adjusted by the first electronic device unless a pre existing trusted relationship exists between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . Thus in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device and the second electronic device are configured to allow trusted relationships to be established with other electronic devices.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example method for establishing a trusted relationship between a first electronic device and second electronic device . The method includes features which may be performed by one or more electronic devices. That is the first electronic device and the second electronic device may collectively perform the method . Accordingly the method may be performed by each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device in order to establish a trusted relationship between those electronic devices. One or more applications or modules such as the pairing module of the first electronic device and the second electronic device may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the first electronic device and the second electronic device to perform the method of . Any one or more of the features of the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other systems software applications devices or modules apart from those specifically discussed herein.

First at communications are established between the first electronic device and second electronic device . The communication permits the first electronic device and the second electronic device to exchange data. By way of example in at least some example embodiments the communications may be Bluetooth communications or of another type of short range technology. By way of further example in other example embodiments the communications may be Wi Fi communications. It will be appreciated that the communications may be of a form not specifically mentioned herein.

At user input may be received at the first electronic device and also at the second electronic device . The user input which is received authorizes the creation of a trusted relationship between the electronic devices. That is users of both electronic devices may in some manner be required to confirm that they would like a trusted relationship to exist between the electronic devices.

At after the creation of a trusted relationship has been authorized a trusted relationship may be created between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . In at least some example embodiments at trusted relationship information may be stored on one or both of the electronic devices. The trusted relationship information tracks the relationship between the first electronic device and the second electronic device and allows the electronic devices to subsequently remember the trusted nature of their relationship. That is once the trusted relationship is established it may be remembered so that it may not need to be established again in the future between those same devices. The trusted relationship information may for example include identification information which allows the electronic devices to identify one another.

In at least some example embodiments authorization information may also be created as part of the method of . The authorization information may be used by the electronic devices when highly secure commands are sent from one electronic device to another electronic device. For example in at least some example embodiments when the first electronic device wishes to unlock or otherwise transition a security state on the second electronic device then the first electronic device may be required to provide the authorization information to the second electronic device . The second electronic device may use its own authorization information to authenticate the received authorization information .

While the example embodiment discussed with reference to requires user input on both electronic devices to establish the trusted relationship in at least some example embodiments a trusted relationship may be established through input on only the second electronic device . For example if a user of the second electronic device instructs the second electronic device to accept instructions and commands from the first electronic device and to make the first electronic device a trusted electronic device then the first electronic device may become a trusted device for the second electronic device and may be permitted to adjust the security state on the second electronic device .

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example method for distributing content to a second electronic device . The method is illustrated in flowchart form. The method includes features which may be performed by the first electronic device . More particularly one or more applications or module such as the content sharing module may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the first electronic device to perform the method of . Any one or more of the features of the method may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other systems software applications devices or modules apart from those specifically discussed herein.

At the first electronic device determines whether an option to output content at the second electronic device should be provided. More particularly the first electronic device may determine based on one or more predetermined rules whether such as option should be provided. That is one or more predetermined rules are used to determine whether a user should be permitted to input an instruction to the first electronic device to output content at an output device associated with a second electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments one of the predetermined rules may specify one or more content types which are either suitable or not suitable for being an output to the second electronic device . By way of example the predetermined rules may take the form of a white list. A white list which may also be referred to as an approved list is a list of content types which are being provided with a particular privilege. In this case the white list specifies types of content which are suitable and or preferred for outputting on an output device associated with the second electronic device . For example the white list may specify content types which the second electronic device is equipped to handle. For example the white list may specify content types which have an associated application on the second electronic device . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments at the first electronic device may determine the content type of content and may determine whether the option to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device should be provided based on the content type of the content and the one or more content types specified by the predetermined rules for example the content types in the white list .

In other example embodiments the one or more predetermined rules may take the form of a black list. The black list may specify one or more content type which are not suited for output to the second electronic device . That is the black list may specify one or more content types for which an option to output the content at the second electronic device should not be provided. In such example embodiments at the first electronic device may determine the content type of the content and may determine whether that content type is a type which is included in the black list. If so then the option to output content at the second electronic device may not be provided.

Similarly in at least some example embodiments one or more of the predetermined rules which are used in order to determine whether the option to output content at the second electronic device should be provided may specify that the option should only be presented if the first electronic device and second electronic device are in range to communicate over a short range connection. For example in order to ensure that an unauthorized user does not gain access to the second electronic device the option may only be presented on the first electronic device if the first electronic device and the second electronic device are in close proximity to one another. The first electronic device and the second electronic device may be determined to be in close proximity to one another if a short range communication connection is available between them. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments at the first electronic device may determine whether one or more predetermined connection types are available and may only determine that an option to output content at the second electronic device should be presented if such a connection is available.

Similarly in at least some example embodiments a predetermined rule which is used at to determine whether an option to output the content the second electronic device should be provided may require that the first electronic device be able to communicate with the second electronic device . That is if no communications are available between the first electronic device and the second electronic device then the first electronic device may determine that the option to output content at the second electronic device should not be provided.

If at the first electronic device determines that the option to output content at the second electronic device should be provided then at the first electronic device may not display a selectable option to output the content at the second electronic device . Instead if it is determined that the option to output content at the second electronic device should not be provided then the first electronic device may perform another function. For example in at least some example embodiments the first electronic device may automatically output the content at an output device associated with the first electronic device . In other example embodiments the first electronic device may provide a user with a selectable option to output the content at an output device associated with the first electronic device . That is a user may be permitted to display or otherwise output the content locally using one or more output interfaces associated with the first electronic device .

If however the first electronic device determines that an option to output content at the second electronic device should be provided then at the first electronic device may display one or more selectable viewing options on the first electronic device . That is one or more selectable content viewing options may be displayed on a display associated with the first electronic device . The one or more selectable content viewing options may include a selectable option to output the content at an output device associated with the second electronic device . The selectable option may for example be a button link or other interface element which a user may select by interacting with an input device associated with the first electronic device . The selectable option to output the content at an output device associated with the second electronic device may be used by a user to command the first electronic device to output content at an output device associated with the second electronic device .

The selectable option to output the content at an output device associated with the second electronic device may be displayed at together with a selectable option to output the content at an output device associated with the first electronic device e.g. the display of .

After the selectable options are displayed at the features of may be performed. That is following the method of may be performed. The functions and features of the method of are described in greater detail above. Accordingly features and of may function in the manner described above with reference to .

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as a handheld electronic device and a server. The handheld electronic device and the server includes components for performing at least some of the example aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

