---

title: Method and system for automatically creating a neighbor list
abstract: A method and system for automatically updating a neighbor list associated with a serving base station is disclosed. The method involves receiving a measurement report from a User Equipment (UE) associated with the serving base station, wherein the measurement report comprises at least one relative signal strength measurement between the UE and each of a plurality of neighboring base stations; comparing the at least one relative signal strength measurement between the UE and the plurality of neighboring base stations with a current signal strength between the UE and the serving base station; identifying at least one of the plurality of neighboring base stations having a greater relative signal strength with respect to the UE than the serving base station a predefined number of times based on the comparison; and updating the neighbor list associated with the serving base station with the identified at least one neighboring base stations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445320&OS=09445320&RS=09445320
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09445320
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150326
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Serial No. 673 CHE 2015 filed Feb. 11 2015 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to managing neighbor lists in a wireless communication environment and more particularly to a method and system for automatically creating a neighbor list.

Long Term Evolution LTE or 4G network is a wireless communication network designed to provide subscribers with a high speed internet experience on their mobile devices without any traffic restrictions either in the mobile device or in the network. One of the requirements of LTE is to provide unbroken connections between base stations also called Evolved Node Bs or eNodeBs or eNBs and User Equipment UEs moving at high speeds. This feature of providing unbroken connections may be accomplished by a serving base station by performing a handover or handoff to another base station. The serving base station or serving eNB decides when to initiate the handover and to which eNB the UE needs to be handed over. These handovers may be based on the UE signal strength measurements of the Neighbour eNBs.

The serving eNB knows its neighbours through a Neighbour Relation Table NRT or a neighbour list. An eNB uses the NRT to determine which neighbour to handover a UE to. Typically an eNB neighbour is added and maintained manually by the network operator. The neighbour list generation and maintenance may turn out to be a significant overhead in the existing mobile networks especially when the networks are expanded and new eNBs are added. For LTE the task of manually maintaining a neighbour list is further challenging for operators because in addition to defining intra LTE neighbour relations the operator also has to provision 2G and 3G neighbours. To overcome this overhead the 3GPP standard covering LTE specifies an Automatic Neighbour Relation ANR function wherein UEs connected to a serving eNB may provide information regarding neighbouring eNBs to the serving eNB. The serving eNB may then update its NRT based on this information. However in this case the number of neighbours reported by the UEs may be substantially high and processing the high number of neighbours to decide the target neighbour for handover may be time consuming and computationally intensive.

In one embodiment a method of creating a neighbor list associated with a serving base station is disclosed. The method comprises determining at least one of a handover failure ratio a ping pong factor and a call drop ratio for each of a plurality of neighboring base stations associated with the serving base station computing a Neighbor Relation Measure NRM for each of the plurality of neighboring base stations as a weighted sum of the at least one of the handover failure ratio the ping pong factor and call drop ratio associated with each of the plurality of neighboring base stations and creating a neighbor list by including one or more neighboring base stations from the plurality of neighboring base stations having NRM lower than a predefined threshold NRM and having a priority sequence value less than a threshold priority sequence value.

In another embodiment an apparatus for creating a neighbor list is disclosed. The apparatus may be associated with a serving base station and may comprise a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution causes the processor to determine at least one of a handover failure ratio a ping pong factor and a call drop ratio for each of a plurality of neighboring base stations associated with the serving base station compute a Neighbor Relation Measure NRM for each of the plurality of neighboring base stations as a weighted sum of the at least one of the handover failure ratio the ping pong factor and call drop ratio associated with each of the plurality of neighboring base stations and create a neighbor list by including one or more neighboring base stations from the plurality of neighboring base stations having NRM lower than a predefined threshold NRM and having a priority sequence value less than a threshold priority sequence value.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions which when executed by a processor enable the processor to automatically create a neighbor list is disclosed.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

An exemplary high level network depicting a broadband wireless network architecture is illustrated in . For purposes of illustration the network corresponds to an LTE network. However the depicted LTE network is merely an exemplary network and thus it will be understood that the teachings of the disclosure contemplate other broadband wireless networks such as WiMax High Speed Packet Access 3GPP s HSPA etc.

In one or more user equipment UE such as UE and UE may communicate wirelessly with an eNB that is an LTE base station. In this case eNB acts as the serving eNB for both UE and UE . The functionalities of eNB may include Radio Resource Management RRM header compression and encryption of user data stream packet scheduling and transmission physical layer processing etc. An example of a UE may be a cell phone PDA tablet computer etc. The eNB may communicate with an evolved packet core EPC that may include a Mobility Management Entity MME associated with a serving gateway S GW . The MME and the S GW are represented together in as MME S GW and MME S GW for the sake of simplicity. However it is to be noted that the MME and the S GW in some embodiments may be separate and distinct entities. The MME manages and stores UE context and further generates temporary identities and allocates them to UEs. The SGW routes and forwards user data packets while also acting as the mobility anchor for the user plane during inter eNB handovers and as the anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies. Network may further include a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW that provides connectivity to UE and UE to external packet data networks by being the point of exit and entry of traffic for UE and UE . A UE may have simultaneous connectivity with more than one PDN GW for accessing multiple PDNs. The PDN GW performs policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful Interception etc.

In addition to the serving eNB network may further include neighboring eNBs such as an eNB and an eNB . It is to be noted that while only eNB and eNB are illustrated as neighbors in for sake of simplicity serving eNB may have any number of neighbors. The serving eNB may maintain a neighbor relation table NRT that provides information corresponding to neighboring eNBs. The NRT may be used by serving eNB to determine which neighbor to handover a UE to. The NRT maintained by the serving eNB may or may not include eNB and eNB . For example the NRT maintained by eNB may include eNB but not eNB . However eNB may discover neighbor eNB using an Automatic Neighbor Relation ANR function. Here the serving eNB may receive measurement reports from all UEs current served by the eNB that is from UE and UE . The measurement reports may include various signal strength measurements between the UE and a number of eNBs in the vicinity of the UE. In this case UE may detect a signal from eNB and accordingly provide this information to serving eNB . The serving eNB may check its own NRT to verify if eNB has been added as a neighbor. On determining that eNB is not on the NRT serving eNB may update the NRT to include the discovered neighbor eNB .

Additional illustrative embodiments are listed below. illustrates a flow diagram of a method of automatically creating a Neighbor Relation Table NRT or a neighbor list associated with a serving base station or eNB. The method may initially include determining at least one of a handover failure ratio a ping pong factor and a call drop ratio for each of a plurality of neighboring base stations associated with the serving base station at step . The neighboring base stations may be determined from a default NRT maintained by the serving base station. Here the handover failure ratio associated with a neighbor base station may represent a number of failed handovers to a number of handover attempts made from the serving base station to the neighbor base station. Similarly a call drop ratio associated with a neighbor base station may correspond to a ratio of call drops to a number of call connection attempts between one or more mobile stations or User Equipment UE and the neighbor base station. The ping pong factor associated with a neighboring base station may correspond to the number of times a call is handed back and forth between the serving base station and the neighboring base station in quick succession time period between handovers is less than the critical time . The handover failure ratio the ping pong factor and the call drop ratio will hereinafter be collectively referred as neighbor base station parameters.

On determining the neighbor base station parameters for each neighbor in the default neighbor list a Neighbor Relation Measure NRM may be computed for each of the neighboring base stations at step . The NRM for a base station may be computed as a weighted sum of the handover failure ratio the ping pong factor and the call drop ratio associated with that base station. The weights assigned to each of the neighbor base station parameters may be based on a current network traffic profile and may have a value ranging from 0 to 1. For example the network traffic may be categorized as high traffic medium traffic and low traffic based on different times of day. Exemplarily the time window between 10 am and 12 am may be construed to have high network traffic and the time window between 12 am to 7 am may be construed to have low traffic. Accordingly the weight assigned to the neighbor base station parameters may vary from 0 to 1 depending on the time of day. If W1 t is the weight associated with the handover failure parameter for a particular time of day W2 t is the weight associated with the call drop parameter for the particular time of day and W3 t is the weight associated with the ping pong parameter for the particular time of day then 1 2 3 where represents the NRM of an ith neighbor base station and and are the handover failure ratio the call drop ratio and the ping pong factor respectively.

Once the NRM is computed for each of the neighboring base stations in the default neighbor list one or more optimized neighbors may be determined. A neighbor list comprising the optimized neighbors may be created by including one or more of the neighboring base stations that have an NRM lower than a predefined threshold and having a priority sequence value less than a threshold priority sequence value at step . The priority sequence may comprise a sequence of neighbor base station parameters that assume priority based on different times of day. For example during high network traffic times the call drop ratio may be considered to have less priority than either the ping pong factor or the handover failure ratio when determining an optimal neighbor. In this case due to the high call traffic a few call drops may be considered acceptable as long as the majority of calls are not interrupted due to handover failure or ping pong effect. Here in addition to a neighboring base station s NRM being lower than a threshold NRM if the values of the ping pong factor and values of the handover failure ratio are below a predefined threshold for the ping pong factor and the handover failure respectively then the neighboring base station may be included in the neighbor list.

In some embodiments on determining the optimal neighbor base stations weights assigned to the neighbor base station parameters for a traffic profile may be automatically tuned or modified based on values of the neighbor base station parameters averaged across all the neighboring base stations. For example between two iterations of determining the optimal neighbors to include in a neighbor list if the average value of the handover failure ratio has increased for a particular traffic profile then the weight associated with the handover failure ratio for the particular traffic profile may be increased. Optimizing the weights at each iteration based on the actual neighbor base station parameters enables a more accurate computation of the NRM for each neighbor base station.

On determining the neighbor base station parameters for each neighbor in the default neighbor list processor may compute a Neighbor Relation Measure NRM for each of the neighboring base stations. The NRM for a base station may be computed as a weighted sum of the handover failure ratio the ping pong factor and the call drop ratio associated with that base station as explained in conjunction with . Once the NRM is computed for each of the neighboring base stations processor may identify one or more optimal neighbor base stations to include in the neighbor list. Neighboring base stations that have an NRM lower than a predefined threshold and having a priority sequence value less than a threshold priority sequence value may be identified as optimal neighbors as explained in conjunction with .

In some embodiments on determining the optimal neighbor base stations processor may automatically modify the weights assigned to the neighbor base station parameters for a traffic profile based on values of the neighbor base station parameters averaged across all the neighboring base stations. Optimizing the weights at each iteration based on the actual neighbor base station parameters enables a more accurate computation of the NRM for each neighbor base station.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a method of automatically creating a neighbor list associated with a serving eNB. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

