---

title: Dynamic location referencing strands
abstract: Systems and methods are described for referencing road strands. Speed data for a set of adjoining road segments is identified. Using at least one of the adjoining road segments, a strand database for is accessed to retrieve a predetermined strand of road segments. An aggregate speed value for the predetermined strand of road segments is calculated based on the speed data for the set of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments. The aggregate speed value is provided as a representative of traffic on the set of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659491&OS=09659491&RS=09659491
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09659491
owner_city: Eindhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20150319
---
The following disclosure relates to strands of road segments and more particularly to efficient provisioning of traffic related information based on the strands of road segments.

Traffic reporting is the study of movement of vehicles on the roads. Analytical techniques may manage and track traffic information in order to derive travel times guide driving behavior and optimize road infrastructure for cities. Traffic Message Channel TMC and other traffic services deliver traffic information to customers. Traffic incidents and traffic flow are reported through broadcasts. Traffic delays may be caused by one or more of congestion construction accidents special events e.g. concerts sporting events festivals weather conditions e.g. rain snow tornado and so on.

The traffic data may be collected from probes from individual drivers. The individual drivers may travel with tracking devices e.g. navigation devices or mobile device . However the saturation rate of road segments having a tracking device at any given point in time may be quite low. In addition a penetration rate describing the percentage of vehicles acting as a probe may also be quite low. Thus the available traffic data may be insufficient to represent a complete traffic map.

In one embodiment speed data for a plurality of adjoining road segments is identified a strand database is accessed for a predetermined strand of road segments corresponding the plurality of adjoining road segments. An aggregate speed value is calculated for the predetermined strand of road segments based on the speed data for the plurality of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments. The aggregate speed value is provided as a representative of traffic on the plurality of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments.

In one embodiment location data indicative of a road segment is sent to a traffic service. In response traffic data for a road strand of a plurality road segments including the road segment is received. The traffic data is based on an aggregate speed value for the strand of road segments based on the speed data for the plurality of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments. The traffic data is provided as a representative of traffic on the plurality of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments.

Traffic data may be provided to users from a traffic service provider TSP . Traffic data may originate with probes. A probe may be a mobile device or tracking device that provides samples of data for the location of a vehicle. The probes may be mobile phones running specialized applications that collect location data as people drive along roads as part of their daily lives. Traffic data may also be collected with a stationary sensor such as an inductance loop or optical detector e.g. camera light detection and ranging LiDAR or radar device . The probe data and stationary sensor data may report the quantity frequency or speed of vehicles as they travel road segments. The road segment may be determined based on the geographical coordinates of the probe e.g. global positioning system GPS .

Traffic data may be presented according to individual road segments. A road segment may be data representing a length of road. Road segments may be defined according to nodes or intersections. For example a road segment may extend from one node to another node. In rural areas road segments may be relatively large because the distances between intersections are lengthy. In urban areas road segments may be relatively small because the distances between intersections are short.

Traffic data may be presented on a display of a map by applying a traffic indicator to the road segments. The traffic indicator may be coloring shading moving icons labeling or other indicators. For example green may represent no congestion yellow may represent slowed but flowing traffic red may represent significantly slowed traffic and black may represent substantially stopped traffic.

The traffic data for probes may not be complete. For example no mobile devices may be traveling on a particular road segment or no stationary sensors may exist for a particular road segment. In addition the penetration rate of the number of vehicles having a probe may be low. When there is no traffic probe or sensor for a particular road segment no traffic data is presented for that road segment. Thus the map may include a visible omission or lack of traffic data for the road segment missing traffic data.

The following embodiments provide a solution for the visible omission or lack of traffic data by using road strands. A road strand may be defined as a sequence of similarly situated road segments. The road strand may be a compound road segment. The road strand may be defined geographically according to a user selection or according to historic traffic. The road strand may include a set of road segment identifiers belonging to the strand. A single traffic value may be assigned to the road strand to represent traffic levels on all of the road segments assigned to the road strand.

The road strands also improve the efficiency of a traffic system. A single traffic value may be transmitted to represent multiple road segments. This lowers the bandwidth required to distribute traffic information. In some distribution systems such as radio transmission bandwidth may be limited. The road strands also eliminate holes or omissions in the traffic data by applying the road stand over road segments without traffic probes.

The server may receive or identify speed data or traffic data for a plurality of adjoining road segments. The speed data may be collected from various types of probes including mobile phone navigation devices sensors or analysis of camera images.

The server may access a strand database e.g. database for a predetermined strand of road segments. The predetermined strand of road segments is based on road attributes historic data or other factors. The server may analyze the road segments in the database to determine the construction of road strands or compound road segments. The construction of the road strands defines what road segments are included. The construction of the road strands may be determined ahead of the time the road strand is used. The predetermined construction of the road strands may be based on the geometry of the road segments historical traffic data for the road segments or attributes of the road segments.

The server may identify the speed data for the road segments in the road strand. The server may calculate an aggregate speed value for the strand of road segments based on the speed data for the adjoining road segments represented by road segments. In one example the speed data for the road segments is averaged. In another example the server determines the media speed value. The server may select a congestion state based on the aggregated speed value. The congestion state may be defined by ranges of speeds. Example ranges of speeds include 0 to 5 6 to 20 21 to 50 and 51 and above. Any ranges may be used. Example units for the ranges of speeds include miles per hour kilometers per hour meters per second feet per second or other units. Example ranges of speed include 0 to 20 of the rated speed of the road segment 21 to 50 of the rated speed of the road segment 51 to 90 of the rated speed of the road segment and above 90 of the rated speed of the road segment. The rated speed of the road segment may be defined by the speed limit of the road segment the average speed of the road segment or another value. These values may be stored as attributes of road links in the database .

The server may provide the aggregate speed value as a representative of traffic on the plurality of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments. The aggregate speed value may be applied to a road map by color e.g. green may represent no congestion yellow may represent slowed but flowing traffic red may represent significantly slowed traffic and black may represent substantially stopped traffic shading or another graphical indicator. The road map may be provided in a mapping application via a website or other program.

The server may provide the aggregate speed value to the mobile device . Because the road strand encompasses multiple road segments and can be described by a single traffic value the efficiency of providing traffic information is improved and the bandwidth and processing requirements are reduced. In one example the traffic values or aggregate speed values for road strands are broadcast by messages carried by a radio frequency signal. In another example the traffic values or aggregate speed values for road strands are distributed over a wireless network e.g. network which may be cellular the family of protocols known as WiFi or IEEE 802.11 the family of protocols known as Bluetooth or another protocol. The cellular technologies may be analog advanced mobile phone system AMPS the global system for mobile communication GSM third generation partnership project 3GPP code division multiple access CDMA personal handy phone system PHS and 4G or long term evolution LTE standards or another protocol.

The traffic information may be provided using a dynamic location referencing system in which the location reference used to deliver traffic data is created when needed. This system of delivering traffic data to mobile devices is superior to Traffic Message Channel TMC and other existing traffic services that deliver e.g. broadcast traffic information to customers using static location codes. Rather than publish all traffic data for road segments the requestor can send a dynamic location code from the requestor s local map database that is map matched to the map database of the traffic provider. Thus the dynamic location reference system may be provider agnostic and be compatible with all map providers. Combining the dynamic location reference system with the road strands described herein reduces the bandwidth requirements because rather than sending congestion information on several road segments or links by reporting traffic state separately congestion information is sent for a strand encompassing multiple road segments or links.

The server may analyze the geometry of the road segments. For example sets of intersecting road segments are analyzed to determine whether the strand should continue through the intersection. The server may compare an angle at which to road segments meet to a threshold angle. When the angle between two roads in the intersection is substantially straight e.g. the angle exceeds the threshold the two road segments are assigned to the same road strand. When the angle between two roads in the intersection is not substantially straight e.g. the angle is less than the threshold the two road segments are assigned to different road strands.

The server may analyze historical traffic data to determine road segments that should be combined in the same road strand or compound road segment. The server may compare historical speed value to determine whether two road segments experience similar traffic patterns. The server may compare a difference between the speed value from one road segment to that of an adjacent road segment. When the difference is less than a threshold difference the adjacent road segments are assigned to the same road strand. When the difference exceeds the threshold difference the adjacent road segments are assigned to different road strands. The comparisons of historical traffic data may be made with median values or mean values averaged over time. Alternatively individual comparisons may be made for time periods or time epochs. The time epochs may be small intervals such as 15 minute increments. The time epochs may be general distinctions such as rush hour versus non rush hour weekday versus weekend days or holidays or high traffic times versus low traffic times. The server may compare each set of adjacent road segments based on time epochs.

The server may analyze attributes of the road segments to determine which road segments should be combined in the same road strand. Examples attributes include any or a combination of functional classification speed limit lane restrictions or other attributes. When two adjacent road segments e.g. a road segment leading to an intersection and a road segment leading away from an intersection have the same functional classification the adjacent road segments may be assigned to the same road strand. That is when two adjacent road segments have different functional classifications the road segments may be assigned to different road strands. When two adjacent road segments have the same speed limit or speed limits within a predetermined range the adjacent road segments may be assigned to the same road strand. That is when two adjacent road segments have different sped limits the road segments may be assigned to different road strands. When two adjacent road segments have the same lane restrictions the adjacent road segments may be assigned to the same road strand. For example a common high occupancy vehicle lane restriction may be an indicator that two adjacent road segments should be assigned to the same road strand.

The server may analyze historical routes to determine which road segments should be combine in the same road strands. For example the server may identify past travel paths from position data to determine the routes vehicles typically take. Consider a four way intersection in which vehicles entering the intersection on segment A have the option of leaving the intersections on segments B C and D. The server may determine whether vehicles choose any of segments B C D more than a predetermine portion e.g. 80 of the time. If most vehicles chose segment C then the server may assign the same road segment to segments A and C.

The road strand table may define the sets of road segments that are grouped together in a road strand. Each road segment in a road strand may be assigned an index. Thus in road strand table road segments ID1 7 are grouped together in the same road segment and assigned road segment index values 11 17. The road strand table may also include strand identifier e.g. Y1 . Multiple strands may be described by the same table. The road strand table may also include any combination of speed functional class and jam factor which may be used to define the road strand. The jam factor may define the traffic identifier e.g. color shading or other indicator that is used to describe the road strand. In one example one range for the jam factor corresponds to one traffic indicator another range for the jam factor corresponds to another traffic indicator and a third range for the jam factor corresponds to a third traffic indicator.

In some examples one or more of the road segments may not be associated with any speed data. For example table illustrates that road segment is not associated with a speed value for the particular time epoch. The server may identify a road segment without speed data for a current time epoch. In response the server may interpolate an estimated speed value for the road segment without speed value. In the example of table the server may average the speed values for adjacent road segments to calculate an estimated speed value. That is the speed value of road segments and may be averaged e.g. 15 18 16.5 . In another example only upstream road segments may be used. For example the speed value of upstream road segments and may be used to calculate the estimate speed value.

A different threshold angle may be used when two road segments intersection without another road segment at the intersection. For example when two road segments connect but there is no other option they may be combined in the same road segment regardless of the angle between them. In another example the two road segments may be combined in the same road segment as long as the road segment is greater than an angle e.g. 60 degrees . In road segment feeds into road segment at about 90 degrees but no route is possible through the intersection. Thus the road segments likely have similar traffic patterns and are combined in the same road segment.

In act S the processor identifies traffic data for a plurality of adjoining road segments. The traffic data may be speed values from mobile devices traveling on the road segments. The traffic data may be representative of a quantity of vehicles on the road segments as measured by traffic sensors or traffic cameras.

In act S the processor accesses a strand database using at least one road segment identifier and receives a strand of road segments. The strand of road segments is based on real time data road attributes road geometry or historic data. Example techniques for determining the road strand are described above.

In act S the processor calculates an aggregate speed value for the predetermined strand of road segments based on the speed data for the plurality of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments. The aggregate speed value may be a number representing speed e.g. 40 miles per hour or a speed category e.g. free flow light traffic or heavy traffic . The aggregate speed value may be an average of the available speed values for the road segments making up the strand. The processor may analyze real time traffic data for the road segments and define the predetermined strand of road segments according to road segments having real time traffic data that deviates within a predetermined range.

In act S the processor or the communication interface sends the aggregate speed value as a representative of traffic on the adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments to another device e.g. mobile device .

The database may be master geographic databases stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example a master geographic database or data in the master geographic database is in a spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The spatial format or development production database may be compiled into a delivery format such as a geographic data file GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats may be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases that may be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a physical storage format PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device. The navigation related functions may correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases may be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer may perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

The mobile device or navigation device is configured to execute routing algorithms to determine an optimum route to travel along a road network from an origin location to a destination location in a geographic region. Using input from the end user the navigation device examines potential routes between the origin location and the destination location to determine the optimum route. The navigation device may then provide the end user with information about the optimum route in the form of guidance that identifies the maneuvers required to be taken by the end user to travel from the origin to the destination location. Some navigation devices show detailed maps on displays outlining the route the types of maneuvers to be taken at various locations along the route locations of certain types of features and so on.

At act S the processor or the communication interface sends location data indicative of a road segment to a traffic service. The location data may be generated by the position circuitry . The location data may include a road segment identifier that the mobile device is traveling on or near. The location data may include geographic coordinates for the location of the mobile device .

The location data generated by the position circuitry may be referenced by a local map database stored in memory . The location data referenced by the local map database may be matched to a traffic provider database. The traffic map database may be a different map provider or the same map provider as the local map database. The location data is created and referenced to the traffic provider database dynamically which means on the fly or as needed.

At act S the processor or the communication interface receives traffic data for a road strand of a road segments including the road segment from the location data. The road strand may be defined by real time traffic data historical traffic data road geometry e.g. internal angle or routing data according to any of the examples describe herein. At act S the processor identifies an aggregate speed value for the road strand from the traffic data. The aggregate speed value may be a moving average of the traffic data. The traffic data may be filtered to determine the aggregate speed value. Outliers may be removed from the traffic data.

At act S the processor provides or the display presents the aggregate speed data as a representative of traffic on the plurality of adjoining road segments represented by the predetermined strand of road segments.

The aggregate speed data may be presented as part of a mapping application. For example the workstation or the mobile device may present a website or another type of application that presents a map to the user. As the user scrolls the map to different geographic locations requests are generated for the map tiles associated with the geographic locations. The aggregate speed data may be presented as part of a navigation application. As the mobile device travels through a geographic area requests are generated for the map tiles associated with the geographic locations.

In any of these examples the aggregate speed value or traffic data may be presented using an application programming interface API . The API may send location data or road segment identifiers to the server . The server may access the strand database and return an aggregate speed value or traffic data for the strand.

The positioning circuitry may include a Global Positioning System GPS Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS or a cellular or similar position sensor for providing location data. The positioning system may utilize GPS type technology a dead reckoning type system cellular location or combinations of these or other systems. The positioning circuitry may include suitable sensing devices that measure the traveling distance speed direction and so on of the mobile device . The positioning system may also include a receiver and correlation chip to obtain a GPS signal. Alternatively or additionally the one or more detectors or sensors may include an accelerometer built or embedded into or within the interior of the mobile device . The accelerometer is operable to detect recognize or measure the rate of change of translational and or rotational movement of the mobile device . The mobile device receives location data from the positioning system. The location data indicates the location of the mobile device .

The input device may be one or more buttons keypad keyboard mouse stylist pen trackball rocker switch touch pad voice recognition circuit or other device or component for inputting data to the mobile device . The input device and the display may be combined as a touch screen which may be capacitive or resistive. The display may be a liquid crystal display LCD panel light emitting diode LED screen thin film transistor screen or another type of display.

The controller and or processor may include a general processor digital signal processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA analog circuit digital circuit combinations thereof or other now known or later developed processor. The controller and or processor may be a single device or combinations of devices such as associated with a network distributed processing or cloud computing.

The memory and or memory may be a volatile memory or a non volatile memory. The memory and or memory may include one or more of a read only memory ROM random access memory RAM a flash memory an electronic erasable program read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory. The memory and or memory may be removable from the mobile device such as a secure digital SD memory card.

The communication interface and or communication interface may include any operable connection. An operable connection may be one in which signals physical communications and or logical communications may be sent and or received. An operable connection may include a physical interface an electrical interface and or a data interface. The communication interface and or communication interface provides for wireless and or wired communications in any now known or later developed format.

The network may include wired networks wireless networks or combinations thereof. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network an 802.11 802.16 802.20 or WiMax network. Further the network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols.

The term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored. These examples may be collectively referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP HTTPS represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

As used in this application the term circuitry or circuit refers to all of the following a hardware only circuit implementations such as implementations in only analog and or digital circuitry and b to combinations of circuits and software and or firmware such as as applicable i to a combination of processor s or ii to portions of processor s software including digital signal processor s software and memory ies that work together to cause an apparatus such as a mobile phone or server to perform various functions and c to circuits such as a microprocessor s or a portion of a microprocessor s that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present.

This definition of circuitry applies to all uses of this term in this application including in any claims. As a further example as used in this application the term circuitry would also cover an implementation of merely a processor or multiple processors or portion of a processor and its or their accompanying software and or firmware. The term circuitry would also cover for example and if applicable to the particular claim element a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in server a cellular network device or other network device.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and anyone or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or is operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a device having a display e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings and described herein in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it is understood that the following claims including all equivalents are intended to define the scope of the invention. The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

