---

title: Flipping through content
abstract: Systems and methods for enabling users to rapidly flip through displayed pages of content in an intuitive manner are provided. Graphical animations for transitioning from one page to another can be executed so that portions of three or more pages can be simultaneously viewed. This enables a user to make snap judgments as to whether she wishes to explore any one of those pages in more detail as she rapidly flips through the pages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09134883&OS=09134883&RS=09134883
owner: Flipboard, Inc.
number: 09134883
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150106
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 284 678 filed Oct. 28 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to electronic devices and more particularly to electronic devices that enable users to rapidly peruse content in an intuitive manner.

Digital media content is plentiful and pervasive in today s online society. This content can be obtained from several data sources and presented for display on a user s electronic device. Different applications running on the electronic device can present the content in any number of different ways. For example a web browser can present content based on the HTML coding of the webpage. As another example various content aggregating applications such as Facebook and Twitter can present content according to predefined templates. Since the quantity of content that can be presented is virtually limitless what is needed is an efficient approach for presenting content and providing users with intuitive navigational access to the content.

Systems and methods for enabling users to rapidly flip through displayed pages of content in an intuitive manner are provided. Graphical animations for transitioning from one page to another can be executed so that portions of three or more pages can be simultaneously viewed. This enables a user to make snap judgments as to whether she wishes to explore any one of those pages in more detail as she rapidly flips through the pages. Various embodiments and details of how a user can rapidly flip through and view multiple pages at once are discussed in more detail in the detailed discussion below.

Embodiments of this invention can be implemented by an application running on an electronic device. The application may be a content aggregator type of application that is capable of sourcing media content from any suitable number of data sources. For example the application can present a user with several selectable high level categories e.g. news tech sports lifestyle each of which may be associated with one more data sources. When the user selects one of the high level categories content sourced from one or more of the data sources associated with the selected category can be made available for viewing in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

The sourced content can be any suitable media such as for example printed media video media or audio media. Each data source can provide one or more articles or other content assets that can be viewed on the electronic device. Each article or content asset can be succinctly represented by a single page. When viewed this page provides its reader with enough information to enable her to make a snap judgment as to whether she wants to read the article in more detail. For example the single page can include artwork and a title representative of the article. In another embodiment multiple articles can be shown at once. For example two or three articles may be displayed each having its own title artwork and text.

When a user selects one of the high level categories the application may enter into a flip mode of navigation in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the flip navigation mode the user can flip through a sequence of single pages representative of each article or content asset associated with the selected category by inputting touch gestures on the device. The user can flip through the sequence by going forward or backward. Though it will be understood that if the sequence is at the beginning the user cannot flip backwards to the previous page and if the sequence is at the end the user cannot flip forward to the next page.

The flip is a transition animation in which either a top half or a bottom half of a currently visible page folds onto its other half and as the currently visible pages fold on to itself a different page unfolds in place of the current page. For example assume a current page has a first half and second half and that a different page has a third half and a fourth half. Further assume that the second and third halves are attached to each other. When the second half flips up towards the first half the third half also flips up. As the second and third halves begin to flip up a portion of the fourth half becomes visible. As the angle between the fourth half and the mated second and third halves increases more and more of the fourth half can be seen and less of the first half can be seen. When the angle reaches 180 degrees none of the current page can be seen because the different page has fully flipped into view.

The user can control the speed in which she flips through the pages. The speed in which each transition animation is performed is based on the input gesture which can be swipe gesture. The swipe gesture can include touchdown location e.g. of a finger on the device drag time duration and speed across the screen and liftoff location e.g. of the finger from the device. Each of these factors can determine whether the user intends to rapidly or slowly flip through the pages.

The user can rapidly flip through the pages by quickly inputting touch gestures e.g. such as a series of rapid swiping motions on the device. This rapid flip can provide the user with the impression she is thumbing through a rolodex. In some embodiments if a sufficient number of input gestures are received within a predetermined period of time the user may be presented with multiple pages at once. That is two or more pages can be simultaneously inflight thereby showing the user portions of at least three different pages simultaneously. Each flip transition animation is keyed off an input gesture thereby prevent any scrolling between pages.

The user can slowly flip through the pages by inputting a relatively slow touch gesture on the device. In a slow flip the transition animation flips the page at pace slower than the fast flip transition. Depending on the swipe gesture factors the user can slowly pick up half of the page and flip it over. Alternatively the user can pick up the page but not move her finger far enough over thereby resulting in having that page fall back down to its starting position.

After the user has finished flipping through the pages she can select the current page to access more content associated with that page. For example after tapping on the current page the application will open up the article so the user can begin reading. The article can include several pages of content and if the user desires she may rapidly flip through those pages in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

User configuration option may enable a user to customize the content obtained by the application. For example the user can define which categories appear on screen and the user can create one or more custom categories . Settings option can enable a user to set settings for how the application operates. For example the user can set how often the application polls the data sources for new content. Refresh option can enable a user to manually refresh the sourced content associated with one or more categories .

When a user selects one of categories the application can transition from screen to screen of . The transition from screen to screen can be performed in any number of different ways. In one embodiment screen can flip into view over screen . The flip can be implemented as one of several different transition animations which are discussed in more detail below. For example the transition animation between screens and can be a multiflip transition animation as discussed below in connection with the description accompanying . It is understood that transition animations other than flip animations may be used when transitioning from screen to screen such as for example a sliding transition or a fading in transition.

A different page can exist for each article or content asset associated with the category selected in screen . These pages can be rendered and or stored locally on or remote from the device running the application. In some embodiments a predetermined number of pages can be stored in cache memory so that they can quickly accessed and rendered for display or for use in flip transition animations according to embodiments of the invention.

During a flip transition animation page can fold over itself about flip axis . Flip axis can be a center axis that bisects the portrait orientation of screen at its midpoint. Since page is oriented in a portrait mode i.e. the aspect ratio is such that the top to bottom dimensions are greater than the left to right dimensions page can fold onto itself in a vertical direction. For example top half can fold down over bottom half or in the alternative bottom half can fold up over top half . If desired however page can flip over itself in a horizontal direction a diagonal direction or any other suitable direction.

During a flip transition animation page can flip onto itself about flip axis . Flip axis bisects page along a vertical axis thereby splitting page in left and right halves and . Thus during a flip transition page folds onto itself in a horizontal direction. For example in a left to right transition left half can fold over right half and in a right to left transition right half can fold over left half .

Beginning on the left side of the transition animation starts with page 1 being the only page that can be viewed by a user. When the transition begins both pages 1 and 2 are divided into halves. Page 1 has first and second halves and page 2 has third and fourth halves. The bottom of second half is mated to the top of the third half. provides a more detailed explanation on how the pages are organized in different layers and mated to each other. As the transition begins page 1 begins to take flight by lifting off page 2. More particularly the mated combination of the second and third halves lift off the fourth half thereby partially revealing page 2. However for convenience page 1 is considered as the inflight page. As page 1 continues its inflight transition more and more of page 2 is revealed and page 1 becomes more covered. Then at the end of time T only page 2 is visible to the user.

Although not shown in lighting attributes of one or more visible halves may change throughout the animation sequence. For example in halves and can be considerably brighter than half . Whereas in the lighting attributes of halves and can be substantially the same.

For purposes of the description accompanying assume the current page is page N and that the pages are altered to be flipped in a vertical direction thereby necessitating the creation of top and bottom halves of each page. As shown each page has either a bottom or top identifier. If the user flips to the next page page N 1 will be shown or if the user flips to the previous page page N 1 will be shown.

In response to a trigger event which is some event that may require a flip transition the inflight module prepares several pages by splitting each page into top and bottom halves. In addition the inflight module mates the bottom half of a given page e.g. page N to the top half of an adjacent page e.g. page N 1 using a fold layer e.g. fold layer . Fold layer mates the top half of page N to the bottom of page N 1. The fold layer can be used by the inflight module as a marker for determining which halves of which pages need to be animated as part of the transition animation. For example when the user provides an input to flip to the next page the inflight module determines which fold layer is associated with the bottom half of page N and after determining the fold layer it knows that page N 1 is the next page to bring into view as page N begins its flight path out of view as indicated by the dotted line. Page N 1 is tethered to page N and effectively follows the same flight path of page N. Continuing the example the user can initiate another flip transition to cause page N 2 not shown to be displayed. The inflight module determines which fold layer is associated with the bottom half of page N 1 and initiates the transition animation of pages N 1 and N 2.

As another example when the user provides an input to flip to a previous page e.g. from page N to page N 1 the inflight engine determines which fold layer is associated with the top layer of page N. After determining the fold layer it knows to initiate a transition operation of pages N and N 1.

Lighting layers can be layered on top of each half as shown. A lighting module shown in can generate lighting layers and lighting attributes associated with each layer can be dynamically adjusted during flight of the halves. The lighting attributes can be based on any number of different factors such as position of the pages or more particularly position of the halves of each page the light source location and the angle in which the electronic device is held.

The inflight module not only converts the pages into animation elements it also handles the inflight characteristics of each flip transition animation. Inflight characteristics can include the speed of the transition the physics of the transition and the animation style. Some of the characteristics such as speed and physics of the transition depend on input gestures provided by the user. Other characteristics such as animation style are typically independent of user input gestures but the speed in which the animation is executed can be user input gesture dependent.

Referring now to several illustrative input gestures are shown with each gesture producing a different transition animation. Each of the input gestures is a swipe gesture and a swipe gesture can include touchdown location e.g. of a finger on the device drag time and speed across the screen and liftoff location e.g. of the finger from the device. Each of these factors can determine the direction the user wishes to flip and whether the user intends to rapidly or slowly flip through the pages. As shown each gesture has a touchdown location as indicated by the lower circle a drag path as indicated by the dashed line and a liftoff location as indicated by the upper circle . Each gesture has a velocity of X Y or Z where X Y Z.

The swipe gestures can be recognized by a touch hardware module that processes raw data received from a touch panel existing on the electronic device. The touch module can recognize other gestures such as taps both single and multiple simultaneous taps and multi touch gestures two finger pinch or two finger scroll . The touch module can work in concert with the inflight module and a physics module to determine inflight characteristics for a transition animation.

The physics module can calculate movement parameters of each transition animation based on the user input gesture. The physics module can determine how fast the inflight module should execute a transition animation. The physics module can determine whether the user input gesture was sufficient to enable the page to fully flip. For example a user may pick up a page to flip it but does not have enough velocity in her swipe gesture motion and as a result the page may lift off but fall back down to the original position because there was not enough momentum to carry it over the flip axis.

The location of touchdowns and liftoffs can be determined using a polar coordinate system or a Cartesian coordinate system. In the polar coordinate system the location is calculated with respect to the flip axis. The touchdown and liftoff location with respect to the flip axis provides more data points for the physics module to determine how to instruct the inflight module how to execute a transition animation. The following description of each gesture in will illustrate how the physics module takes each of the above identified factors into account when instructing the inflight module how to execute a transition.

Gesture 1 shows a swipe gesture crossing the flip axis at velocity X. Since X is a relatively fast velocity and the gesture crosses the flip axis the transition animation from page 1 to page 2 can be executed at a relatively fast pace.

Gesture 2 shows a swipe gesture crossing the flip axis at velocity Y. Since Y is a relatively medium velocity and the gesture crosses flip axis the transition animation from page 1 to page can be executed at a pace proportional to Y.

Gesture 3 shows a swipe gesture that does not cross the flip axis but is executed at velocity X. The physics module can deduce that the user intends a fast flip because the gesture is short and fast even though the gesture does not cross the flip axis. As a result the flip transition animation is executed at a relatively fast pace.

Gesture 4 shows a swipe gesture that does not cross the flip axis and is executed at velocity Z a relatively slow velocity. In response to this gesture the physics module can deduce that there is not enough speed to carry the page over the flip axis. Thus even though the page may lift off it does not have enough momentum to complete a full transition. As a result the page will fall back down and the transition remains incomplete.

Gesture 5 shows a swipe gesture that crosses the flip axis at velocity Z a relatively slow speed. In response to this gesture the physics module can instruct the inflight module to execute the transition slowly but enables it to fully complete. Even though the user gesture is relatively slow she lifted off just beyond the flip axis thereby allowing gravity to do the work of completing the transition.

The gestures illustrated in are indicative of just a few of many different gesture transition combinations that may be executed in accordance with embodiments of the invention. For example a gesture can touchdown in the top half be dragged up and liftoff in the top half and this will result in having the bottom half flip onto the top half. Thus the direction of the flip is not necessarily dependent on the touchdown location.

Another gesture transition combination that can be exercised in accordance with embodiments of the invention is a series of relatively high speed swipe gestures that cause a series of relatively high speed flip transitions to be executed. The resulting flip transition animations may be referred to herein as fast flips. The inflight module can execute the fast flips so that multiple pages are inflight simultaneously. For example when a first page goes inflight and a second input gesture is received during flight of the first page the second page goes inflight while the first page is still inflight. If a third input gesture is substantially immediately received a third page goes inflight simultaneously with at least the second page. The first page may still be inflight in which case all three pages are simultaneously inflight. This sequence of fast flips can continue indefinitely in either direction until there are no more pages to display or the user ceases proving gesture inputs.

Although the fast flips can occur in a relatively rapid succession and multiple pages can simultaneously be inflight the user is provided with a succinct snapshot of at least a portion of each page before the next fast flip commences. This gives the user the ability to quickly thumb through the pages in a rolodex fashion and make snap judgments as to whether to further explore any of the pages she just viewed.

Referring now to an illustration of a series of fast flips according to an embodiment of the invention is shown. The series of fast flip transition animations begin with page 1 includes page 2 and ends with page 3 as illustrated by generic layer . The swipe gestures that initiate this series can be for example a series of the Gesture 3 type shown in . Each fast flip transition animation can take time T to complete where Tis a predetermined period of time. The entire series of fast flips can take time TS which can depend on among other factors the number of flips the user commences. The predetermined period of time T can range between 0.1 seconds to 0.9 seconds or more particularly between 0.2 seconds to 0.7 seconds or between 0.3 seconds and 0.6 seconds or between 0.4 and 0.5 seconds or about 0.4 seconds. For purposes of illustrative discussion assume the transition is a vertical transition taken along a flip axis running horizontally across the page. also has top view layer that shows a top view of the transition animation and side view layer that shows a hypothetical side view of the transition animation. The numbers P1 P2 and P3 shown in each time slice of layers and illustrate the viewable portions of the pages.

Before any transitions commence the user can view only page 1 as illustrated by timeslice tof layers and . Commensurate with timeslice t a fast flip gesture is received which prompts the inflight module to commence inflight operation of page 1. When page 1 goes inflight it begins to flip about the flip axis pulling page 2 along with it as shown in timeslices tand t. Then around timeslice t another fast flip gesture input is received which prompts the inflight module to commence inflight operation of page 2. Similar to page 1 when page 2 goes inflight it begins to flip about the flip axis pulling page 3 along with it as shown in timeslices t. In timeslices t however both pages 1 and 2 are simultaneously inflight. In timeslice t only page 2 is in flight because page 1 had finished its inflight execution. At timeslice t only page 3 is visible and page 2 has finished its inflight execution.

At step the first gesture input is processed and inflight characteristics for a first transition animation is determined. The first gesture input may be processed for example by the physics module the touch module or a combination of both modules to determine the inflight characteristics of the first transition animation. The inflight characteristics dictate how the inflight engine executes the transition animation. As discussed above in connection with the transition animation can be executed according to any number of different ways.

At step the first transition animation is executed in accordance with the determined inflight characteristics. In this step the inflight module controls the animation of a page and ultimately how the animation is presented to a user by transmitting animation instructions to for example a 3D animation engine and or graphics hardware. Moreover the inflight module may prepare other pages for animation and use fold layers and lighting layers as appropriate.

At step a second gesture input is received while the first transition animation is in flight. For example as a first page is flipping over the second gesture input is received. At step the second gesture input is processed and inflight characteristics for a second transition animation are determined. For purposes of this discussion assume the second gesture input is a fast flip gesture and the inflight characteristics are determined as such.

At step the second transition animation is executed in accordance with the determined inflight characteristics and as a result both the first and second transition animations are simultaneously in flight. Thus for at least a minimum period of time both animations are presented to the user at the same time. It is understood that additional steps may be added and that various steps may be performed in any order or simultaneously.

At step a flip transition animation is executed in response to each received gesture input wherein execution of each transition animation sends a page inflight along a flight path wherein viewable portions of the inflight page and a different page change as the inflight page progresses along its flight path and wherein the predetermined period of time is such that at least two pages are simultaneously inflight. Each transition animation displays at least a portion of a different page. That is each time a new transition animation takes flight a portion of a page beneath the inflight page s is presented to a user. In addition because multiple gesture inputs are received relatively rapidly in sequence at least two transition animations are simultaneously inflight. In some embodiments three four five six or more transition animations may simultaneously be inflight.

Lighting parameters of each page can be dynamically adjusted depending on where a given page is within a given transition animation. This way the user is presented with visual lighting effects for each visible page as she quickly flips through the pages.

Referring now to an illustrative blank page multi flip transition animation is shown. The blank page multi flip transition animation is a transition animation similar to several fast flip transition animations except that the multi flip transition includes several blank pages whereas the fast flips include pages with content. The multi flip animation and in particular the blank pages signifies to the user that she is transitioning to a feature of the application that has several pages of content. The animation sequence of show a transition form a home screen to the first page corresponding to the category selected in the home screen. The multiflip transition animation can be handled by a multiflip module and can be performed automatically without user input. That is the user may select a category which prompts execution of the multiflip transition animation but the sequence of multiple flip animations is performed automatically.

Beginning with a home screen is provided with several selectable categories . Assuming a user selects one of selectable categories the home screen begins to flip about flip axis revealing first blank page as indicated in . show a sequence of multiple blank pages flipping about flip axis . The sequence includes blank pages and though it is understood that any number of blank pages may be used.

At step a multiflip transition animation is executed in response to the received user selection to transition from the first page to a content or landing page. The multiflip transition includes simultaneous inflight execution of several blank and is performed automatically after the user selects one of the categories. The content page can be the first page associated with the selected category.

As an alternative to the blank page multiflip embodiment discussed above in connection with and content pages may be displayed in lieu of the blank pages during the multiflip transition animation. For example the content can be the actual content of the pages corresponding to the selected category. The multiflip module can select a subset of the content for inclusion in the multiflip transition animation. The content pages can be cached in memory for faster access. In addition the content pages can be lower resolution versions of the content pages obtained from one or more data sources. In effect a multiflip transition animation with content may be similar to several fast flip transition animations but is executed automatically without any input from a user.

It should be understood that processes of and are merely illustrative. Any of the steps may be removed modified or combined and any additional steps may be added without departing from the scope of the invention.

Touch device may include a touch sensitive panel which is wholly or partially transparent semitransparent non transparent opaque or any combination thereof. Touch device may be embodied as a touch screen touch pad a touch screen functioning as a touch pad e.g. a touch screen replacing the touchpad of a laptop a touch screen or touchpad combined or incorporated with any other input device e.g. a touch screen or touchpad disposed on a keyboard or any multi dimensional object having a touch sensitive surface for receiving touch input.

In one example touch device embodied as a touch screen may include a transparent and or semitransparent touch sensitive panel partially or wholly positioned over at least a portion of a display. According to this embodiment touch device functions to display graphical data transmitted from processing system and or another source and also functions to receive user input. In other embodiments touch device may be embodied as an integrated touch screen where touch sensitive components devices are integral with display components devices. In still other embodiments a touch screen may be used as a supplemental or additional display screen for displaying supplemental or the same graphical data as a primary display and to receive touch input.

Touch device may be configured to detect the location of one or more touches or near touches on device based on capacitive resistive optical acoustic inductive mechanical chemical measurements or any phenomena that can be measured with respect to the occurrences of the one or more touches or near touches in proximity to device . Software hardware firmware or any combination thereof may be used to process the measurements of the detected touches to identify and track one or more gestures. A gesture may correspond to stationary or non stationary single or multiple touches or near touches on touch device . A gesture may be performed by moving one or more fingers or other objects in a particular manner on touch device such as tapping pressing rocking scrubbing twisting changing orientation pressing with varying pressure and the like at essentially the same time contiguously or consecutively. A gesture may be characterized by but is not limited to a pinching sliding swiping rotating flexing dragging or tapping motion between or with any other finger or fingers. A single gesture may be performed with one or more hands by one or more users or any combination thereof.

Processing system may drive a display with graphical data to display a graphical user interface GUI . The GUI may be configured to receive touch input via touch device . Embodied as a touch screen touch device may display the GUI. Alternatively the GUI may be displayed on a display separate from touch device . The GUI may include graphical elements displayed at particular locations within the interface. Graphical elements may include but are not limited to a variety of displayed virtual input devices including virtual scroll wheels a virtual keyboard virtual knobs virtual buttons any virtual UI and the like. A user may perform gestures at one or more particular locations on touch device that may be associated with the graphical elements of the GUI. In other embodiments the user may perform gestures at one or more locations that are independent of the locations of graphical elements of the GUI. Gestures performed on touch device may directly or indirectly manipulate control modify move actuate initiate or generally affect graphical elements such as cursors icons media files lists text all or portions of images e.g. such as pages discussed above in connection with or the like within the GUI. For instance in the case of a touch screen a user may directly interact with a graphical element by performing a gesture over the graphical element on the touch screen. Alternatively a touch pad generally provides indirect interaction. Gestures may also affect non displayed GUI elements e.g. causing user interfaces to appear or may affect other actions within processing system e.g. affect a state or mode of a GUI application or operating system . Gestures may or may not be performed on touch device in conjunction with a displayed cursor. For instance in the case in which gestures are performed on a touchpad a cursor or pointer may be displayed on a display screen or touch screen and the cursor may be controlled via touch input on the touchpad to interact with graphical objects on the display screen. In other embodiments in which gestures are performed directly on a touch screen a user may interact directly with objects on the touch screen with or without a cursor or pointer being displayed on the touch screen.

Feedback may be provided to the user via communication channel in response to or based on the touch or near touches on touch device . Feedback may be transmitted optically mechanically electrically olfactory acoustically or the like or any combination thereof and in a variable or non variable manner.

Attention is now directed towards embodiments of a system architecture that may be embodied within any portable or non portable device including but not limited to a communication device e.g. mobile phone smart phone a multi media device e.g. MP3 player TV radio a portable or handheld computer e.g. tablet netbook laptop a desktop computer an All In One desktop a peripheral device or any other system or device adaptable to the inclusion of system architecture including combinations of two or more of these types of devices. is a block diagram of one embodiment of system that can include electronic device and data sources . Electronic device that can include one or more computer readable mediums processing system touch subsystem display graphics subsystem communications circuitry storage and audio circuitry . These components may be coupled by one or more communication buses or signal lines. Electronic device can be the same as or similar to electronic device .

Data sources represent the various sources from which content can be obtained and ultimately displayed on electronic device . The content can be any suitable media such as for example printed media video media or audio media. Each data source can provide one or more articles or other content assets that can be viewed on the electronic device. Electronic device can obtain content from data sources on demand or at regular intervals. The content at data source can update continuously.

It should be apparent that the architecture shown in is only one example architecture of system and that electronic device could have more or fewer components than shown or a different configuration of components. The various components shown in can be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof including one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Communications circuitry can include RF circuitry and or port for sending and receiving information. RF circuitry permits transmission of information over a wireless link or network to one or more other devices and includes well known circuitry for performing this function. Port permits transmission of information over a wired link. Communications circuitry can communicate for example with data sources . Communications circuitry can be coupled to processing system via peripherals interface . Interface can include various known components for establishing and maintaining communication between peripherals and processing system .

Audio circuitry can be coupled to an audio speaker not shown and a microphone not shown and includes known circuitry for processing voice signals received from interface to enable a user to communicate in real time with other users. In some embodiments audio circuitry includes a headphone jack not shown .

Peripherals interface can couple various peripherals of the system to processor and computer readable medium . One or more processors can communicate with one or more computer readable mediums via controller . Computer readable medium can be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by one or more processors . Medium can include a memory hierarchy including but not limited to cache main memory and secondary memory. The memory hierarchy can be implemented using any combination of RAM e.g. SRAM DRAM DDRAM ROM FLASH magnetic and or optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact disks and DVDs digital video discs . Medium may also include a transmission medium for carrying information bearing signals indicative of computer instructions or data with or without a carrier wave upon which the signals are modulated . For example the transmission medium may include a communications network including but not limited to the Internet also referred to as the World Wide Web intranet s Local Area Networks LANs Wide Local Area Networks WLANs Storage Area Networks SANs Metropolitan Area Networks MAN and the like.

One or more processors can run various software components stored in medium to perform various functions for device . In some embodiments the software components include operating system communication module or set of instructions touch processing module or set of instructions physics module or set of instructions inflight module or set of instructions multiflip module or set of instructions lighting module or set of instructions and one or more applications or set of instructions . Each of these modules and above noted applications correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the methods described in this application e.g. the computer implemented methods and other information processing methods described herein . These modules e.g. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise rearranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments medium may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore medium may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

Operating system can include various procedures sets of instructions software components and or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks e.g. memory management storage device control power management etc. and facilitates communication between various hardware and software components.

Communication module facilitates communication with other devices using communications circuitry and includes various software components for handling data received from RF circuitry and or port .

Touch processing module includes various software components for performing various tasks associated with touch hardware including but not limited to receiving and processing touch input received from I O device via touch I O device controller . For example touch processing module can also include software components for performing tasks associated with other I O devices not shown .

Physics inflight multiflip and lighting modules include instructions for performing different flip transition animations in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Modules may use data provided by other modules within medium or operate in concert with the modules to execute transition animations.

Physics module can determine inflight characteristics of transition animations based on gesture inputs processed by touch processing module . For example physics module can determine the speed at which the transition animation is performed. As another example module can determine whether sufficient momentum is present based on the input gesture to enable the transition animation to cross the flip axis and complete its inflight path.

Inflight module controls the transition animation based on data provided by physics module touch processing module lighting module and or multiflip module . Inflight module can include various known software components for rendering animating and displaying graphical objects on a display surface. In embodiments in which touch hardware is a touch sensitive display e.g. touch screen inflight module includes components for rendering displaying and animating objects on the touch sensitive display. More particularly module can provide animation instructions to 3D animation engine which can render the graphics and provide the rendering to graphics I O controller so it can display the graphics on display .

Inflight module can include instructions for converting pages into animation elements suitable for transition animations. For example module can obtain pages from storage and prepare those pages for transition animations. For example the pages can be prepared by being split into first and second halves. Module can use fold layers to keep track of which pages to include in a sequence of flip transition animations. Module can also incorporate lighting layers for each page.

Lighting module includes instructions for dynamically adjusting the lighting of each page as it moves along its flight path. Multiflip module includes instructions for simultaneously displaying multiple blank pages as part of a transition from one page to another.

One or more applications can include any applications installed on system including without limitation a browser address book contact list email instant messaging word processing keyboard emulation widgets JAVA enabled applications encryption digital rights management voice recognition voice replication location determination capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS a music player etc.

Touch I O controller is coupled to touch hardware for controlling or performing various functions. Touch hardware communicates with processing system via touch I O device controller which includes various components for processing user touch input e.g. scanning hardware . One or more other input controllers not shown receives sends electrical signals from to other I O devices not shown . Other I O devices may include physical buttons dials slider switches sticks keyboards touch pads additional display screens or any combination thereof.

If embodied as a touch screen touch hardware displays visual output to the user in a GUI. The visual output may include text graphics video and any combination thereof. Some or all of the visual output may correspond to user interface objects. Touch hardware forms a touch sensitive surface that accepts touch input from the user. Touch hardware and touch controller along with any associated modules and or sets of instructions in medium detects and tracks touches or near touches and any movement or release of the touch on touch hardware and converts the detected touch input into interaction with graphical objects such as one or more user interface objects. In the case in which hardware is embodied as a touch screen the user can directly interact with graphical objects that are displayed on the touch screen. Alternatively in the case in which hardware is embodied as a touch device other than a touch screen e.g. a touch pad the user may indirectly interact with graphical objects that are displayed on a separate display screen.

Embodiments in which touch hardware is a touch screen the touch screen may use LCD liquid crystal display technology LPD light emitting polymer display technology OLED organic LED or OEL organic electro luminescence although other display technologies may be used in other embodiments.

Feedback may be provided by touch hardware based on the user s touch input as well as a state or states of what is being displayed and or of the computing system. Feedback may be transmitted optically e.g. light signal or displayed image mechanically e.g. haptic feedback touch feedback force feedback or the like electrically e.g. electrical stimulation olfactory acoustically e.g. beep or the like or the like or any combination thereof and in a variable or non variable manner.

In some embodiments peripherals interface one or more processors and memory controller may be implemented on a single chip. In some other embodiments they may be implemented on separate chips. Storage can any suitable medium for storing data including for example volatile memory e.g. cache RAM non volatile memory e.g. Flash hard disk drive or a both for storing data including pages used for transition animations.

Notification module can interface with one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs to provide a notification center that can generate various types of notifications when system is in either a locked state or an unlocked state. Furthermore notification module can provide multiple settings for customizing the notification center.

The described embodiments of the invention are presented for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation.

