---

title: Vehicle telematics unit communication authorization and authentication and communication service provisioning
abstract: A computer system comprising a processor, a non-transitory memory, and an application stored in the non-transitory memory. When executed by the processor, the application determines that a telematics unit (TU) has connected to a messaging gateway, determines communication services to which the TU is entitled, generates metadata based on the communication services to which the TU is entitled, where the metadata comprises instructions to the TU to subscribe to topics supported by a publish-subscribe messaging gateway, and transmits the metadata to the TU.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604651&OS=09604651&RS=09604651
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09604651
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150805
---
Some motor vehicles may comprise an embedded computer system referred to as a head unit or telematics unit TU . The TU may provide a variety of operational features including providing centralized access to vehicle sensors and electro mechanical devices via a controller area network CAN communication bus. The TUs may be communicatively coupled to a wireless network and information available to the TU may be accessed remotely via wireless communication link. This capability may be useful in transportation industries for fleet management and maintenance. This capability may make automobile maintenance and troubleshooting easier for car dealerships and or independent auto repair shops.

Some TUs may provide wireless communication services for drivers and or passengers of the vehicle for example data communication links to the Internet to enable access to web applications and or to surf the web while riding in the vehicle. The TUs may also provide the ability for authorized individuals e.g. an owner of the vehicle or proxy of the owner of the vehicle to employ an application executing on a user equipment UE or mobile phone to initiate remote vehicle operations via the TU data communication link. For example an authenticated user may initiate a remote door unlock from a UE that propagates over a communication path from the UE to the TU and the TU may command a door lock of the vehicle to unlock over a CAN bus of the vehicle.

In an embodiment a vehicle telematics unit TU is disclosed. The TU comprises a processor a non transitory memory a cellular radio transceiver and an application stored in the non transitory memory. When executed by the processor the application reads a vehicle identification number VIN from a controller area network CAN bus of a vehicle in which the TU is installed generates a random number transmits a first communication authorization request via the cellular radio transceiver where the first request comprises the VIN read from the CAN bus and the random number and receives a short message service SMS message via the cellular radio transceiver where the SMS message comprises a number. Based on determining that the number equals the random number the application further generates a temporary communication session key transmits a second communication authorization request via the cellular radio transceiver where the second request comprises the VIN and the temporary communication session key and receives a message via the cellular radio transceiver where the message comprises a permanent session key. The application further transmits a communication authentication request via the cellular radio transceiver where the authentication request comprises the permanent session key receives an authentication token via the cellular radio transceiver and connects to a messaging gateway by sending a connection request via the cellular radio transceiver where the connection request comprises the authentication token where the messaging gateway provides remote vehicle command communication service to a vehicle in which the TU is installed.

In an embodiment a vehicle telematics unit TU is disclosed. The TU comprises a processor a non transitory memory a cellular radio transceiver and an application stored in the non transitory memory. When executed by the processor the application reads a vehicle identification number VIN from a controller area network CAN bus of a vehicle in which the TU is installed obtains an authentication token based on the VIN connects to a messaging gateway by sending a connection request via the cellular radio transceiver where the connection request comprises the authentication token. The application further receives a message comprising metadata via the cellular radio transceiver wherein the metadata identifies at least one topic supported by the messaging gateway the TU is to subscribe to and transmits a subscription request via the cellular radio transceiver to the messaging gateway to subscribe to the at least one topic identified in the metadata. The application further receives information via the cellular radio transceiver from the messaging gateway published to the at least one topic and configures the TU to provide communication services in accordance with the information published to the at least one topic.

In an embodiment a computer system is disclosed. The computer system comprises a processor a non transitory memory and an application stored in the non transitory memory. When executed by the processor the application determines that a telematics unit TU has connected to a messaging gateway determines communication services to which the TU is entitled generates metadata based on the communication services to which the TU is entitled where the metadata comprises instructions to the TU to subscribe to topics supported by the messaging gateway whereby subscribing to the topics causes information to be published to the TU that the TU uses to configure itself to provide the communication services to which it is entitled and transmits the metadata to the TU.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Motor vehicles may have a telematics unit TU or head unit installed. TUs are computers that may execute specialized automotive applications like navigation applications backup camera imaging applications entertainment system applications remote vehicle operation applications maintenance support applications and other vehicle applications. The TUs may communicate with sensors and electromechanical items in the vehicle via a controller area network CAN bus of the vehicle. TUs may provide access to a variety of wireless communication services. Some of the wireless communication services may be leased or subscription services. For example the TU may be provisioned to execute ten remote vehicle operation commands over a predefined duration of time in exchange for a payment from the subscriber and or vehicle owner.

The disclosure teaches an authentication and authorization process that deters and or reduces susceptibility to fraud and spoofing by bogus telematics units e.g. a TU that poses as a different TU to obtain desirable communication services without paying a subscription fee for the services . The disclosure further teaches a system for configuring and updating TU communication services and or functionality based on pushing a metadata file to the TU that identifies topics the TU is to subscribe to via a messaging gateway. The messaging gateway publishes information to those topics to the TU and the TU uses the information to configure itself to deliver the communication services associated with the topics. Said in other words the metadata pushed to the TU effectively programs or configures via the indirection of identifying topics the TU is to subscribe to the communication services that the TU is authorized to provide to the user and or driver of the vehicle.

When a communication service changes for the TU either an additional service is authorized for the TU e.g. because a user has paid for an additional service or a service currently provided by the TU is rescinded the system commands the TU to disconnect and reconnect to the messaging gateway it builds a new metadata file incorporating the subject change pushes the metadata file to the TU and the TU subscribes to topics in accordance with the new metadata file thereby configuring an additional service or not configuring a former service. The system can support rapid changes to a communication service set that is supported by the TU which can promote a variety of objectives of wireless communication service providers and vehicle original equipment manufacturers. In an embodiment the system can support rapid deployment of new functionality by publishing information to a topic subscribed to by the TU that defines application programming interfaces APIs in the vehicle accessible via a controller area network CAN of the vehicle. This can enable the TU to provide functionality previously unsupported by the TU.

The disclosure teaches an authentication and authorization A2 process for the TU to connect to a communication hub to receive wireless communication services. The process provides a variety of mechanisms to deter fraud. For example looking up self identifying information by reading data stored in the vehicle via the CAN bus such as the vehicle identification number VIN rather than storing the VIN in the TU. Thus if the TU is removed from the vehicle it may not be operable if installed in another vehicle. Providing this looked up information in the authorization request allows the communication hub to determine the continued association of the TU with the appropriate vehicle. When an initial reply containing a temporary communication credential is sent to the TU by the communication hub it is sent as a short message service SMS message to the TU at a telephone number associated with the TU in a data store in the communication hub which acts as a further deterrence to fraud i.e. it deters spoofing of a phone number of the TU by another device .

The disclosure further teaches a command and control C2 process managed by the communication hub that configures the TU to provide the communication and operation functions to which the TU and or the vehicle is entitled. When the TU connects to the communication hub a C2 component in the hub sends a message to the TU identifying communication topics the TU should register to subscribe to or to publish to. This registration effectively configures or provisions the TU with the specific communication services to which it is entitled. This information is sent down to the TU in the form of metadata. The TU subscribes with a messaging gateway to the topics identified by the metadata. The messaging gateway publishes information on the topics subscribed to by the TU and at least some of the information causes the TU to configure or program itself to provide specific communication services and or other functionality. Some of the services may be preprogrammed into the TU and the published information may cause the TU to enable the subject service analogous to turning on a switch. Other services may be programmed in part by the published information. Some of the information included in the metadata in addition to topics to subscribe and publish to may comprise commands of how often to publish information to the topics the TU registers to publish to.

When a service manifest for a TU changes the C2 component may command the TU to disconnect and then reconnect. When the TU disconnects the previous registrations for topics to publish or subscribe to are discarded. When the TU reconnects the C2 component sends new metadata to the TU that describes the changed services either additional services or reduced services to which the TU is entitled in the form of commands to register to subscribe to or publish to topics.

The TU may provide an ability to temporarily subscribe to a settings topic whereby the TU may receive settings published to the TU that the TU can use to configure settings such as seat position settings mirror position settings radio selection button settings vehicle handling mode settings and the like. The driver may be able to temporarily subscribe to his or her custom settings in a plurality of vehicles having different TUs. For example the TU may provide a user interface displayed on a touchscreen display unit to select settings to be downloaded. The selection may allow a driver to select a driver 1 a driver 2 a driver 3 etc. whereby settings associated with the identified driver are subscribed to. Alternatively the selection may allow a driver to select a driver by name.

In an embodiment the TU or an application that executes on a server such as on an enterprise service bus system may process or transcode a user settings file to adapt the settings to a known geometry of a vehicle in which the TU is installed. For example the settings values in the settings file may be adapted by the TU or by a centralized computer system for a first use in adjusting mirror positions and seat positions in a large sport utility vehicle SUV and adapted again for a second use in a sports car. The process of transcoding user settings may take into account settings limitations in different vehicles. For example a first vehicle may support 12 FM radio programmed selection buttons while a second vehicle may support only 10 FM radio programmed selection buttons. The transcoding may drop off 2 of the FM radio programmed selection buttons when adapting the settings file to the TU of the second vehicle. The universal settings file that can be adapted to different vehicles as taught above may be used when a driver uses an alternative vehicle such as a spouse s vehicle a friend s vehicle a rental vehicle a relative s vehicle a co worker s vehicle and the like.

Turning now to a system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a vehicle having a telematics unit TU or head unit installed. The TU may communicate via wireless links to a first enhanced node B eNB and to a network . The system further comprises a messaging gateway having a publish subscribe message distribution application an authorization authentication A2 server executing an A2 application and a command and control C2 server executing a C2 application . In some contexts the A2 application may be referred to as an A2 application or an A2 component and the C2 application may be referred to as a C2 application component or a C2 component. The system further comprises a user equipment UE that communicates via wireless links to a second eNB . The system may comprise any number of vehicles TUs and eNBs . The vehicle may be any of an automobile a mini van a van a sport utility vehicle SUV a pickup truck a delivery truck a semi truck a boat or another vehicle.

The messaging gateway the C2 server and the A2 server may collectively constitute a communications hub or a part of a communication hub. The communication hub may comprise other applications and or components not shown in . In an embodiment two or more of the A2 application the C2 application and the publish subscribe application may execute on a single server or computer system. For further details about a communication hub that supports communication services for the TU see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 698 522 filed Apr. 28 2015 entitled Vehicle Remote Operations Control by Sridhar Reddy Amireddy et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The UE may be a smart phone a media player a wearable computer a headset computer or a wireless enabled portable computer such as a laptop computer a notebook computer or a tablet computer. The UE comprises a radio frequency transceiver a processor a memory and a vehicle remote operations command client stored in the memory . The TU may register with the publish subscribe message distribution application to subscribe to receive remote operation commands published by the UE and or the vehicle remote operations command client for example remote door unlock commands remote door lock commands remote engine turn on commands remote engine turn off commands remote environmental control commands remote horns and lights commands and the like.

When the vehicle is turned off e.g. the vehicle is parked at a workplace the TU disconnects from the messaging gateway after a period of time of inactivity. When the vehicle is turned back on or the TU is commanded to wake up by an event manager component not shown of the communication hub the TU performs an authentication process and if authentication succeeds connects to the messaging gateway and or the publish subscribe message distribution application . In some circumstances e.g. when a permanent session key provided by the TU during the authentication process expires an authorization process may be completed before performing the authentication process. For further details about an event manager component see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 703 997 filed May 5 2015 entitled Network Event Management Support for Vehicle Wireless Communication by Sridhar Reddy Amireddy et al. which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

In the case that the authorization and authentication processes succeed the TU then connects to the messaging gateway and or the publish subscribe message distribution application . When connected to the messaging gateway the TU may subscribe to receive notifications from specific topics and to publish notifications to specific topics. For example the TU may subscribe to receive vehicle remote operation commands published by the UE and or the vehicle remote operations client . When the TU receives a vehicle remote operation command it may send a command to an appropriate device or controller in the vehicle over a controller area network CAN bus of the vehicle for example send an unlock command over the CAN bus to an electro mechanical door lock system. As another example the TU may register to publish information to a fuel level topic specific to the vehicle and may periodically publish fuel level information to the messaging gateway . The TU may register to publish information to a tire inflation pressure topic to publish information to a vehicle speed topic to publish information to a vehicle location topic and other topics.

Turning now to a block diagram of the TU is described. In an embodiment the TU comprises a cellular radio transceiver a processor and a non transitory memory . The non transitory memory may store a messaging client application user settings an entertainment application an environment control application and a remote operations event handling application . In an embodiment the user settings may be stored not in the non transitory memory but rather in a main memory or volatile memory of the TU . The non transitory memory may further store other applications not shown such as one or more of a backup camera application a navigation application a graphics display application and other applications. The cellular radio transceiver is configured to wirelessly communicate with the eNB according to one of a long term evolution LTE a code division multiple access CDMA a global system for mobile communications GSM or a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol.

The messaging client application may establish a communication connection with the publish subscribe message distribution application and or the messaging gateway . The messaging client application may register with the publish subscribe message distribution application to publish to topics and to subscribe to receive messages about or from other topics. The messaging client application may receive published messages on topics to which it has subscribed and may distribute information contained in those messages to applications executing in the TU or to vehicle systems via the CAN bus. The messaging client application may read information from applications executing in the TU or read information from vehicle systems via the CAN bus and publish this information to appropriate topics that it has previously registered to publish to.

When the messaging client application disconnects from the publish subscribe message distribution application and or the messaging gateway when the TU goes dormant the messaging client application deregisters from all topics. During boot of the TU the messaging client application after completing an authentication process connects to the publish subscribe message distribution application and or the messaging gateway in some circumstances e.g. when a permanent session key has expired the TU may complete an authorization process before performing the authentication process . When the TU connects to the messaging gateway the messaging client application may register with the messaging gateway to a baseline topic. The C2 application may determine that the TU and or the messaging client application has connected to the messaging gateway and or to the publish subscribe message distribution application and publish a notification to the baseline topic associated with the specific TU that comprises metadata identifying topics that the TU and or the messaging client application is to register to publish to and subscribe to. Alternatively the C2 application may transmit the metadata directly to the TU .

In response to receiving the baseline notification comprising the metadata the messaging client application registers with the messaging gateway and or the publish subscribe message distribution application for the topics identified in the metadata. Some of the topics that the messaging client application subscribes to publish information to the messaging client application that causes the messaging client application to configure and or program the TU to provide communication services and or other services to a user and or driver of the vehicle . In some cases the information published to the messaging client application may cause the TU to enable or switch from an inactive to an active state pre programmed functionality in the TU . Other pre programmed functionality in the TU may remain disabled and dormant perhaps because a user and or driver of the vehicle has not enrolled to receive the associated service.

Some published information sent to the messaging client application may inform and or describe application programming interfaces APIs of systems and or controllers in the vehicle accessible to the TU via the CAN bus. The published information may further enable the TU and or the messaging client application to invoke and or to build services not previously installed in the TU based in part on using the APIs described in the published information and based in part on abstractly defined functions which are concretely or specifically defined by the published information. Thus new functionality can be delivered via the subscription mechanism that was not previously defined or encapsulated concretely in the TU .

As an example a car manufacturer rolls out a brand new model of a high performance sports car and a new feature available locally in the vehicle is the ability to record a video from the front camera with overlaid contextual information e.g. speed engine RPM g forces . In an embodiment the C2 application sends new modules or functionality that enable the use of previously unknown native vehicle APIs to the messaging client application . In this embodiment TUs would have the same base messaging client application and the C2 application may enable the messaging client application to use various authorized API s provided by the firmware in the TU using only some configuration parameters. The C2 application may send metadata information about the new API to the messaging client application . The messaging client application could then consume this API metadata and enable a cloud based feature that allows the user and or driver to upload their videos via a wireless communication link provided by a cellular radio transceiver in the TU directly from the vehicle to some service. The metadata may contain parameters that describe the nature of the service the messaging client application s intended role in service enablement and how to use the new API. This would reduce time to market as it would not require an over the air firmware update or new messaging client application download. It would be as simple as writing the metadata for the new API and distributing to authorized vehicles it wouldn t even be a client code change.

The C2 application may determine what topics to command the TU and or the messaging client application to register to publish to and to subscribe to based on information about communication services that a user of the vehicle has paid for or enrolled to receive. For example a service manifest may be provided by a wireless communication service provider that operates the eNBs and the communication hub. The service manifest may identify communication services and service level agreements for those services to which a user and or TU is entitled. These services may be grades of communication service to extend to the TU for example a transmit bandwidth to be configured into the cellular radio transceiver or a cellular wireless communication technology to be used that is thereby configured into the cellular radio transceiver . The services may be a volume of data that may be transferred via the cellular radio transceiver either downloaded to the TU or uploaded from the TU .

The services may be a number of vehicle remote operations commands that may be performed. The C2 application may monitor the number of times that the TU executes remote vehicle operation commands and when an allowed number of commands have been executed may generate and send to the TU a second metadata that suppresses the instruction to the TU to subscribe to the remote operation command. The C2 application may accomplish the revision of the TU services by sending a disconnect command to the TU followed by a connect message to the TU wherein the second metadata is sent to the TU after the TU reconnects to the messaging gateway .

The entertainment radio application may be configured to provide AM radio functionality FM radio functionality and satellite radio functionality. The entertainment radio application may be communicatively coupled to one or more radio receivers in the vehicle to receive broadcast audio content. In an embodiment the entertainment radio application may have additional functionality to condition and amplify audio content for playback through speakers. For example the entertainment radio application may present a control interface on the display that a driver or passenger can use to adjust volume bass midrange treble left right balance front rear fade and other operation parameters of an audio system in the motor vehicle . In an embodiment the entertainment radio application may further support receiving and processing audio input from a compact disc player from an auxiliary device such as an MP3 player or from some other audio source. The entertainment radio application may read from the user settings to associate radio pre select buttons with specific AM radio stations FM radio stations or satellite radio stations as defined in the user settings .

An environment control application may be configured to control air conditioning and heating systems of the motor vehicle to maintain the interior environment of the motor vehicle at a temperature that is comfortable to the driver and or passengers. In an embodiment the environment control application may comprise two or more environment control applications or application frameworks. For example control of the vehicle heating system may be provided via a first environment control application framework and control of the vehicle air conditioning system may be provided by a second environment control application framework. A windshield defrosting system may be provided by a third environment control application framework or the defrosting system may be integrated with the vehicle heating system.

The remote operations event handling application may be configured to subscribe to vehicle remote operation events and to process those events. When the remote operations event handling application receives a vehicle remote operation event publication from the publish subscription distribution application for example relayed to it by the messaging client application the remote operations event handling application processes the event and or message. For example the remote operations event handling application may send a command to an electro mechanical device in the motor vehicle via the CAN bus.

Turning now to and a method is described. The method may be performed at least in part by the messaging client application of the TU . At block the TU reads a vehicle identification number VIN from the CAN bus of the vehicle . At block the TU generates a random number or a nonce. In an embodiment the TU may further generate a client challenge key. At block the TU transmits a first communication authorization request via the cellular radio transceiver where the first request comprises the VIN read from the CAN bus and the random number. In an embodiment the first request may further comprise the client challenge key and identifying information about the TU . The TU identifying information may comprise one or more of an electronic serial number ESN of the TU a mobile equipment identity MEID of the cellular radio transceiver an international mobile station equipment identity IMEI of the transceiver a mobile directory number MDN or phone number associated with the transceiver a preferred roaming list PRL version configured in the transceiver and or other identifying information. The first request may further comprise a client identity client ID associated with the messaging client application and an empty password or a null value in a password field of the first request.

The first communication authorization request may be conveyed to the A2 application for processing. In an embodiment the A2 application replies to the TU that the request is unauthorized due to the empty password. The A2 application requests validation that the VIN provided in the first communication authorization request is associated with a vehicle participating in the communication services supported by the communication hub by attempting to retrieve data associated with the vehicle and or the TU from a master database of the communication hub. The request for data comprises the VIN sent in the first request by the TU . In an embodiment the request for data further comprises TU identifying information. If an entry for the vehicle and or the TU are present in the master database an MDN or telephone number of the TU and or the cellular radio transceiver is returned to the A2 application . The A2 application may store the client challenge key and generate a server challenge key. The A2 application may send a request to an event manager component of the communication hub to send a short message service SMS message on behalf of the A2 application to the TU where the SMS message contains the server challenge key and the random number received from the TU .

The A2 application requests that the SMS message be sent to the MDN that it looked up in the master database. This operates as a kind of check on the legitimacy of the first communication request as the A2 application does not rely on an MDN provided in the request itself but looks the MDN up based on the VIN provided. The combination of the messaging client application reading the VIN of the vehicle across the CAN bus every time it sends the first communication authorization request with looking up the MDN based on the VIN by the A2 application and using that MDN to send the SMS makes it difficult to spoof the TU to hijack communication services that are provided for it.

At block the TU receives a short message service SMS message via the cellular radio transceiver where the SMS message comprises a number. The TU compares the received number to the random number that it transmitted in the first request. If the received number and the random number do not match the TU deems the authorization process to have failed. If the received number and the random number do match at block based on determining that the received number equals the random number the TU generates a temporary communication session key. In an embodiment the SMS message further comprises the server challenge key generated by the A2 application and the temporary communication session key may be built by concatenating the client challenge key and the server challenge key.

At block the TU transmits a second communication authorization request via the cellular radio transceiver where the second request comprises the VIN and the temporary communication session key. In an embodiment the second request further comprises one or more of the client ID and or TU identifying information. In an embodiment the second request may be conveyed to the A2 application for processing. The A2 application validates the temporary session key based on the earlier stored client challenge key and server challenge key. If a permanent session key associated with the TU was previously stored that permanent session key is cleared and or deleted.

The A2 application may validate the association of the VIN and TU identifying information. If the VIN does not match the TU identifying information the TU may have been swapped from a first vehicle to a second vehicle. This kind of swapping can be performed for example by an automobile dealer while managing his sales inventory. For example a vehicle that was delivered from the factory with a TU installed may be sold to an individual who doesn t want to pay for this option. The dealer may have removed the TU from the first vehicle and installed it in another vehicle. The A2 application may request a TU swap e.g. changing the association of the VIN to the TU identifying information provided in the second request . The A2 application creates a permanent session key for the TU and sends the permanent session key to the TU .

At block the TU receives a message via the cellular radio transceiver where the message comprises a permanent session key. Blocks through may be considered to constitute at least in part and from the perspective of the TU an authorization process.

At block the TU transmits a communication authentication request via the cellular radio transceiver where the authentication request comprises the permanent session key and a mobile equipment identity MEID of the TU and or of the cellular radio transceiver . Alternatively the authentication request comprises the VIN looked up via the CAN bus of the vehicle . Alternatively the authentication request comprises a client identity that may be composed of one or more of the VIN the MEID the MDN an electronic serial number and or other information about the TU . In an embodiment the authentication request may further comprise one or more of the client ID a secret key and TU identifying information. In an embodiment the authentication request is conveyed to the A2 application for processing. The A2 application validates the permanent session key and then obtains an authentication token. In an embodiment the authentication may be an OAuth token. The A2 application transmits the authentication token to the TU .

At block the TU receives an authentication token via the cellular radio transceiver . Blocks and may be considered to constitute at least in part and from the perspective of the TU as an authentication process.

At block the TU connects to the messaging gateway and or the publish subscribe message distribution application by sending a connection request via the cellular radio transceiver where the connection request comprises the authentication token. The messaging gateway and or the publish subscribe message distribution application may provide remote vehicle command communication service to the vehicle in which the TU is installed. The messaging gateway and or the publish subscribe message distribution application may provide other communication services related to publish and subscribe functions to the TU as described further above.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

Additionally after the system is turned on or booted the CPU may execute a computer program or application. For example the CPU may execute software or firmware stored in the ROM or stored in the RAM . In some cases on boot and or when the application is initiated the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from the secondary storage to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU itself and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. In some cases the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from memory accessed via the network connectivity devices or via the I O devices to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. During execution an application may load instructions into the CPU for example load some of the instructions of the application into a cache of the CPU . In some contexts an application that is executed may be said to configure the CPU to do something e.g. to configure the CPU to perform the function or functions promoted by the subject application. When the CPU is configured in this way by the application the CPU becomes a specific purpose computer or a specific purpose machine.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards that promote radio communications using protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX near field communications NFC radio frequency identity RFID and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage flash drive ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

