---

title: Biometric user authentication system and a method therefor
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a method and a system for authenticating a user. In one embodiment, one or more input and target data samples extracted from a plurality of physiological and movement signals of the user are processed to train one or more regression models. In real time authentication, the input and target data samples are extracted from the plurality of physiological and activity signals and mapped with trained regression models to determine a regression error. Based on the regression error, an appropriate authentication signal is then generated and transmitted to the user. Using dynamically selected multiple input and target data samples for user authentication increases the accuracy of authentication, thereby reducing possibilities of invalid authentication. Further, the power consumed by the sensors and computation load is reduced by dynamically powering up and powering down of the one or more sensors based on their usage during the authentication process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613197&OS=09613197&RS=09613197
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09613197
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150304
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Patent Application No. 5655 CHE 2014 filed Nov. 10 2014. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present subject matter is related in general to system and method for authenticating a user and more particularly but not exclusively to authentication using biometric data.

Traditional user authentication methods such as user identification and passwords still pose a significant vulnerability when accessing information systems. The problem has become more acute as Internet use grows and fraudulent strategies are launched daily in efforts to exploit the lack of adequate authentication. Biometric authentication is a known authentication technique having an advantage that there is no forgetting and forgery is difficult as compared with traditional authentication based on password or a Smart card. However the biometric authentication mechanisms remain vulnerable in areas that involve critical operations despite such areas having very high security. There are ample possibilities that an intruder can still manage to wrongly authenticate and gain access to a prohibited area using stolen passwords password signatures and other forged techniques.

Therefore there is a need to provide a method and a system to authenticate user in a robust and continuous manner by using multiple parameters and dynamically selecting these parameters so as to increase authentication accuracy.

One or more shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through the present disclosure. Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present disclosure. Other embodiments and aspects of the disclosure are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed disclosure.

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to a method of authenticating a subject. The method comprises the step of receiving in real time at least a plurality of physiological and movement signals of the subject from one or more physiological and activity sensors of a wearable device. The method further comprises deriving one or more input and target data samples associated with the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. Based on the derived input and target data samples the method determines a regression error value and transmits a signal authenticating the subject based on the comparison of the determined regression error value with a predetermined threshold regression error value.

Further the present disclosure relates to a wearable device for authenticating a subject. The system comprises a one or more physiological and activity sensors and a processor coupled with the one or more physiological and activity sensors. The system further comprises a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to receive in real time at least a plurality of physiological and movement signals of the subject from the one or more physiological and activity sensors. The processor is further configured to derive one or more input and target data samples associated with the plurality of received physiological and movement signals and determine a regression error value based on the derived input and target data samples. The processor is furthermore configured to transmit a signal authenticating the subject based on the comparison of the determined regression error value with a predetermined threshold regression error value.

Furthermore the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor cause a system to perform the act of receiving at least a plurality of physiological and movement signals of the subject from one or more physiological and activity sensors of the wearable device. Further the instructions cause the processor to perform the acts of deriving of one or more input and target data samples associated with the plurality of received physiological and movement signals at predetermined time period and determining a regression error value based on the derived input and target data samples. The processor is further configured to perform transmitting a signal authenticating the subject based on the comparison of the determined regression error value with a predetermined threshold regression error value.

In another embodiment the present disclosure relates to a method of authenticating a subject. The method comprising the step of receiving one or more input and target data samples from a wearable device wherein the one or more input and target data samples are derived from a plurality of physiological and movement signals of the subject received by one or more physiological and activity sensors of the wearable device. Upon receiving the one or more input and target data samples a regression error value is determined based on the derived input and target data samples. Further the method comprising the step of authenticating the subject based on the comparison of the determined regression error value with a predetermined threshold regression error value.

Further the present disclosure relates to a device for authenticating a subject. The system comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to receive one or more input and target data samples from the wearable device wherein the one or more input and target data samples associated with at least a plurality of physiological and movement signals of the subject received by the one or more physiological and activity sensors of the wearable device. The processor is further configured to determine a regression error value based on the received input and target data samples and authenticate the subject based on the comparison of the determined regression error value with a predetermined threshold regression error value.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems embodying the principles of the present subject matter. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudo code and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternative falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.

The terms comprises comprising or any other variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a setup device or method that comprises a list of components or steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps not expressly listed or inherent to such setup or device or method. In other words one or more elements in a system or apparatus proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the system or apparatus.

The present disclosure relates to a method a wearable device and a system for authenticating a subject alternatively referred to as user . In one embodiment one or more input and target data samples are extracted from a plurality of physiological and movement signals of the user received from the one or more physiological and activity sensors of the wearable device. Based on the extracted input and target data samples one or more regression models are trained and stored in a repository.

In real time to authenticate the user the input and target data samples are extracted from the plurality of physiological and activity signals received from the physiological and activity sensors. A regression error value is determined by comparing the extracted target data samples with trained target data samples. Based on the comparison the user is authenticated and appropriate signal is indicated to the user. Using dynamically selected multiple input and target data samples to determine user authentication increases the accuracy of authentication thereby reducing possibilities of invalid authentication. Further the power consumed by the sensors and computation load is reduced by dynamically powering up and powering down of the one or more sensors based on their usage during the authentication process.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

As shown in a system comprises one or more components coupled with each other. In one implementation the system comprises a wearable device communicatively coupled with an authenticating device via a communication network .

In one embodiment the wearable device comprises one or more sensors . . . N hereinafter collectively referred to as sensors a processor a memory and an indicator . The wearable device may be a band which is elastic and the sensors may contact the skin of the forearm of the user when the band is worn. In one aspect the sensors may be preferably uniformly spaced. In another aspect the sensors may be arbitrarily spaced on the band. The wearable device can be placed in varying orientation and location on the forearm. As the muscles contract in the forearm the sensors detect the corresponding electrical activity and transmit the signals. The signals may be at least plurality of physiological or activity signals associated with the user of the wearable device .

Physiological signals may be indicative of heart beat rate respiration rate or volumetric measurement of one or more organs blood flow rate and so on. In one embodiment the sensors used to detect the physiological signals may be Electrocardiogram ECG pulse oximeter Photoplethysmograh PPG and so on. The movement or activity signals may be determined by the sensors such as for example accelerometer gyroscope and one or more motion sensors including vibrometers piezoelectric sensors or any other motion detecting sensors. In another embodiment the sensors may be any other sensors existing in the art that is capable of capturing physiological characteristics and movement of the user.

The wearable device is configured to detect plurality of physiological and movement signals of the user process the detected signals and transmit the processed signals to the authenticating device for authentication. The processor is configured to perform the initial signal pre processing for example rectification noise reduction filtering and so on. The authenticating device is then receives the pre processed signals transmitted by the wearable device process the received signals and generate an authentication signal based on processing. In one embodiment the authenticating device comprises a processor to process the received signals and generate the authentication signal. The signals received from the wearable device and the processed signals are then stored in a memory coupled to the processor . In another embodiment the wearable device is configured to detect the plurality of physiological and movement signals of the user process the detected signals and generate an authentication signal which is then transmitted to the authenticating device . The processor of the wearable device processes the detected signals and transmits the authentication signal via an interface to the authenticating device . The authenticating device then receives the authentication signal and accepts or denies the access of the user based on the received authentication signal.

The wearable device is one of the possible variations of the wearable device described in greater details below with reference to . In one implementation the exemplary wearable device as shown in includes a central processing unit CPU or processor the memory and an I O interface . The I O interface is coupled with the processor and an I O device. The I O device is configured to receive inputs via the I O interface and transmit outputs for displaying in the I O device via the I O interface .

The wearable device further comprises data and modules . In one implementation the data and the modules may be stored within the memory . In one example the data may include training input data samples A training target data samples A real time input data samples B real time target data samples B trained regression models regression score significant score and other data . In one embodiment the data may be stored in the memory in the form of various data structures. Additionally the aforementioned data can be organized using data models such as relational or hierarchical data models. The other data may be used to store data including temporary data and temporary files generated by the modules for performing the various functions of the wearable device .

The modules may include for example a training module an authentication module and a sensor updation module . The modules may also comprise other modules to perform various miscellaneous functionalities of the wearable device . It will be appreciated that such aforementioned modules may be represented as a single module or a combination of different modules.

In operation one or more data samples of corresponding physiological and movement signals are trained in one or more regression models. The models then receive real time data samples use the trained regression models to match the received real time samples with previously determined samples and identify an authorized user based on matching. To train one or more regression models the training module receives the plurality of physiological and activity signals associated with the user from the sensors and process the received signals to obtain one or more trained regression models . In one embodiment the training module receives at least plurality of time synchronized physiological and movement signals of the user from the sensors . The training module may also receive all signals or at least a subset of the signals from the sensors .

Further the training module derives one or more training input and target data samples A A associated with the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. The training module extracts one or more training input data samples A associated with at least a first subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. The training module further extracts one or more training target data samples A associated with at least a second subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. Both the first and the second subset comprise the plurality of physiological and movement signals. In one embodiment the second subset comprises plurality of physiological and movement signals not present in the first subset of signals. The training input and the target data samples are obtained at predetermined time period say for example at least 30 seconds.

Upon deriving the one or more training input and target data samples A A the training module generates one or more arbitrary combinations of input and target data samples to train one or more regression models. In one embodiment the training module generates the one or more arbitrary combinations of input and target data samples by randomly selecting combinations of training input and target data samples A A from the one or more derived training input and target data samples A A. Based on the randomly selected combinations of the training input and target data samples A A the training module trains one or more regression models and generates one or more trained regression models associated with the user. The training of the one or more regression models includes determination of correlation between the arbitrary combinations of the training input and the target data samples A A. The training module may implement training of the one or more regression models using Support Vector Machine SVM or any other machine learning techniques known in the art.

Upon generating one or more trained regression models the training module determines the training progress and indicates the determined training progress to the user using the indicator that comprises for example one or more colored LEDs. In one embodiment the training module determines the training progress based on a predetermined training threshold value and a regression error for each of the trained regression models . In one embodiment the training module determines regression error for K number of regression models if there are N number of input and target data samples are derived as illustrated in the below equation 1 1 

The training progress P at time t is determined based on the predetermined training threshold value and the regression error determined for each of the trained regression models as illustrated in equation 2 

The training module further compares the determined training progress P with the predetermined training threshold value T to determine the completion of training. If the training progress value P is determined to be greater than or equal to the training threshold T then the training module determines that the training is complete and further determines the percentage of training progress as illustrated in equation 3 below Percentage of training progress 100 3 

Further the indicator displays the training progress to the user by illuminating one or more colored LEDs. For example if the training is complete then the illuminator illuminates green colored LEDs otherwise red colored LEDs are illuminated.

Upon completion of training the authentication process begins when the user is required to access one or more secured resources in real time. In one embodiment the authentication module is configured to receive a plurality of physiological and movement signals in real time and process the received signals to obtain one or more input and target data samples associated with the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. The authentication module extracts one or more real time input data samples B associated with at least a first subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. The authentication module further extracts one or more real time target data samples B associated with at least a second subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. Both the first and the second subset comprise the plurality of physiological and movement signals. In one embodiment the second subset comprise plurality of physiological and movement signals not existing in the first subset of signals. The input and the target data samples are obtained at predetermined time period say for example at least 30 seconds.

Upon deriving the one or more real time input and target data samples B B the authentication module determines a regression error value based on the derived real time input and target data samples B B. In one embodiment the authentication module maps the real time input data samples B onto the one or more trained regression models associated with the user and identify one or more mapping regression models. The authentication module then obtains the one or more training target data samples A corresponding to the mapping regression models that are identified. The authentication module further compares the one or more training target data samples A with the derived real time target data samples B and determines the regression error.

The authentication module further determines authentication of the user based on regression error thus determined. In one embodiment the authentication module compares the regression error with a predetermined regression error threshold value and generates the authentication signal based on the comparison. For example if the regression error is determined to be lesser than the predetermined regression error threshold value then the authentication module generates an accept authentication signal to allow the access of the user to the respective resources. On the other hand if the regression error is determined to be greater than or equal to the predetermined regression error threshold value then the authentication module generates a reject authentication signal to deny the access of the user. The authentication module then transmits the generated authentication signal to the user.

The wearable device is further configured to determine a significant score for the one or more regression models. In one embodiment the sensor updation module determines a significant score for each of the regression models based on the corresponding regression error values. The regression models may be the regression models i that are mapped and identified during both successful and unsuccessful authentication processes. The significant score is determined based on regression score of one or more regression models of both authenticated and impostor users. As illustrated below in equation 4 the significant score is determined as 

wherein G is a first regression score of the one or more regression models associated with authenticated users and F is a second regression score of the one or more regression models associated with fraud or impostor users. The regression score is the inverse of the regression error.

Upon determining the significant score of the one or more regression models the sensor updation module arranges the significant score of the one or more regression models in descending order for example. The sensor updation module selects one or more regression models having maximum significant score and dynamically performs at least one of enabling or disabling the sensors based on the usage. In one embodiment the sensor updation module dynamically enables or disables the sensors based on the usage with the selected regression models. Dynamic enablement or disablement of the sensors also result in saving power consumption and computing load by the processor as only the relevant subset of sensors and corresponding signals are used in authentication instead of computing on all signals.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks implemented by the processor for training one or more regression models associated with the user. The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method . Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

At block receive physiological and movement signals. In one embodiment the training module receives the plurality of physiological and activity signals associated with the user from the sensors and process the received signals to obtain one or more trained regression models. In one embodiment the training module receives at least plurality of time synchronized physiological and movement signals of the user from the sensors . The training module may also receive all signals or at least a subset of the signals from the sensors .

At block extract input and target data samples. In one embodiment the training module derives one or more training input and target data samples A A associated with the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. The training module extracts one or more training input data samples A associated with at least a first subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. The training module further extracts one or more training target data samples A associated with at least a second subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. Both the first and the second subset comprise the plurality of physiological and movement signals. In one embodiment the second subset comprises plurality of physiological and movement signals not present in the first subset of signals. The training input and the target data samples are obtained at predetermined time period.

At block train regression models. Upon deriving the one or more training input and target data samples A A the training module generates one or more arbitrary combinations of input and target data samples to train one or more regression models. In one embodiment the training module generates the one or more arbitrary combinations of input and target data samples by randomly selecting combinations of training input and target data samples A A from the one or more derived training input and target data samples A A. Based on the randomly selected combinations of the training input and target data samples A A the training module trains one or more regression models and generates one or more trained regression models associated with the user. The training of the one or more regression models includes determination of correlation between the arbitrary combinations of the training input and the target data samples A A. The training module may implement training of the one or more regression models using Support Vector Machine SVM or any other machine learning techniques known in the art.

At block determine training progress. In one implementation the training module determines the training progress based on a predetermined training threshold value and a regression error for each of the trained regression models. In one embodiment the training module determines regression error for K number of regression models if there is N number of input and target data samples are derived. The training progress P at time t is determined based on the predetermined training threshold value and the regression error determined for each of the trained regression models. The training module further compares the determined training progress P with the predetermined training threshold value T to determine the completion of training. If the training progress value P is determined to be greater than or equal to the training threshold T then the training module determines that the training is complete and further determined the percentage of training progress.

At block display the training progress. In one embodiment the indicator displays the training progress to the user by illuminating one or more colored LEDs. For example if the training is complete then the illuminator illuminates green colored LEDs otherwise red colored LEDs are illuminated.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks implemented by the processor for authenticating the user. The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method . Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

Upon completion of training the authentication process begins when the user is required to access one or more secured resources in real time.

At block receive physiological and movement signals. In one embodiment the authentication module is configured to receive a plurality of physiological and movement signals in real time and process the received signals to obtain one or more input and target data samples associated with the plurality of received physiological and movement signals.

At block extract input and target data samples. In one embodiment the authentication module extracts one or more real time input data samples B associated with at least a first subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. The authentication module further extracts one or more real time target data samples B associated with at least a second subset of the plurality of received physiological and movement signals. Both the first and the second subset comprise the plurality of physiological and movement signals. In one embodiment the second subset comprise plurality of physiological and movement signals not existing in the first subset of signals. The input and the target data samples are obtained at predetermined time period.

At block transmit authentication signal. Upon deriving the one or more real time input and target data samples B B the authentication module determines a regression error value based on the derived real time input and target data samples B B. In one embodiment the authentication module maps the real time input data samples B onto the one or more trained regression models associated with the user and identify one or more mapping regression models. The authentication module then obtains the one or more training target data samples A corresponding to the mapping regression models that are identified. The authentication module further compares the one or more training target data samples A with the derived real time target data samples B and determines the regression error.

The authentication module further determines authentication of the user based on regression error thus determined. In one embodiment the authentication module compares the regression error with a predetermined regression error threshold value and generates the authentication signal based on the comparison. For example if the regression error is determined to be lesser than the predetermined regression error threshold value then the authentication module generates an accept authentication signal to allow the access of the user to the respective resources. On the other hand if the regression error is determined to be greater than or equal to the predetermined regression error threshold value then the authentication module generates a reject authentication signal to deny the access of the user. The authentication module then transmits the generated authentication signal to the user.

At block determine significant score. In one implementation the wearable device is further configured to determine a significant score for the one or more regression models. In one embodiment the sensor updation module determines a significant score for each of the regression models based on the corresponding regression error values. The regression models may be the regression models i that are mapped and identified during both successful and unsuccessful authentication processes. The significant score is determined based on a first regression score of one or more regression models of authenticated users and on a second regression score of one or more regression models of impostor users.

At block dynamically update sensors. In one embodiment upon determining the significant score of the one or more regression models the sensor updation module arranges the significant score of the one or more regression models in descending order for example. The sensor updation module selects one or more regression models having maximum significant score and dynamically performs at least one of enabling or disabling the sensors based on the usage. In one embodiment the sensor updation module dynamically enables or disables the sensors based on the usage with the selected regression models. Dynamic enablement or disablement of the sensors also result in saving power consumption and computing load by the processor as only the relevant subset of sensors and corresponding signals are used in authentication instead of computing on all signals.

Variations of computer system may be used for implementing all the computing systems that may be utilized to implement the features of the present disclosure. Computer system may comprise a central processing unit CPU or processor . Processor may comprise at least one data processor for executing program components for executing user or system generated requests. The processor may include specialized processing units such as integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units graphics processing units digital signal processing units etc. The processor may include a microprocessor such as AMD Athlon Duron or Opteron ARM s application embedded or secure processors IBM PowerPC Intel s Core Itanium Xeon Celeron or other line of processors etc. The processor may be implemented using mainframe distributed processor multi core parallel grid or other architectures. Some embodiments may utilize embedded technologies like application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 40 400 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM Error Reference source not found. etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system Error Reference source not found. user interface application Error Reference source not found. web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X UNIX Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

As described above the modules amongst other things include routines programs objects components and data structures which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The modules may also be implemented as signal processor s state machine s logic circuitries and or any other device or component that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Further the modules can be implemented by one or more hardware components by computer readable instructions executed by a processing unit or by a combination thereof.

The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. are non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

