---

title: Systems and methods for vehicle data acquisition using telematics-enabled portable devices
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed herein for transmitting telematics data from a vehicle. The systems include a smartphone holder that provides a communications link between a smartphone and a vehicle computer, through the smartphone dataport and the vehicle onboard diagnostics (OBD) port. The smartphone holder is configured to keep the smartphone in a stable, known position and orientation with respect to the vehicle, such that data from an accelerometer in the smartphone can be calibrated. The smartphone accelerometer data and telematics data from vehicle telematics sensors is then transmitted via the smartphone or stored locally.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524593&OS=09524593&RS=09524593
owner: HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
number: 09524593
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150604
---
This application is a continuation application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 143 496 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ADJUSTING INSURANCE PROCESSES USING DATA FROM TELEMATICS ENABLED PORTABLE DEVICES filed Dec. 30 2013 which is in turn a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 641 025 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR LINKING VEHICLES TO TELEMATICS ENABLED PORTABLE DEVICES filed Dec. 17 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 635 091 issued Jan. 21 2014 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Recently to make vehicular insurance evaluations and analyses insurance companies have suggested taking into account vehicle telematics data. However not all vehicles have the sensors necessary to measure or record useful telematics data. In other cases communicating with the vehicle s sensors or the vehicle computer that monitors those sensors poses a challenge. For example different types of vehicles have different vehicle computers each of which requires a different vehicle communication protocol for communication. In these situations it may be desirable to provide a supplemental telematics sensing system for a vehicle. However these supplemental telematics sensing systems tend to be bulky expensive cumbersome and difficult to use. Thus alternative telematics sensing systems may be desirable.

Smartphones such as the IPHONE device and the BLACKBERRY device are becoming more and more common. These smartphones have processing and memory capabilities that are comparable to those of desktop computers of the late 1990s and are miniature computers in their own right. In addition the incorporation of telematics sensors such as accelerometers and GPS sensors into smartphones is becoming more prevalent. For example the IPHONE device includes a miniature accelerometer that is configured to provide acceleration data to any of a multitude of applications executing on the IPHONE device processor. The powerful processing and memory capabilities of modern smartphones along with their data transmission capabilities telematics sensing capabilities and widespread adoption make them suitable candidates for portable supplemental telematics sensing systems for vehicles.

The invention discloses systems and methods for transmitting telematics data from a vehicle. The systems may include a smartphone holder that provides a communications link between a smartphone and a vehicle computer through a smartphone dataport and a vehicle onboard diagnostics OBD port. The smartphone holder may be configured to keep the smartphone in a stable known position and orientation with respect to the vehicle such that data from an accelerometer in the smartphone may be calibrated. The smartphone accelerometer data and telematics data from vehicle telematics sensors may then transmitted via the smartphone or stored locally.

In one aspect the invention relates to a system for providing telematics information from a vehicle with a vehicle computer. The system includes a holder for a portable personal communications device configured to maintain the personal communications device in a stable position and a stable orientation with respect to the vehicle. The holder also has an onboard diagnostics OBD port connector and a dataport connector communicatively coupled to the OBD port connector. The system also includes a portable personal communications device with a telematics sensor a dataport a processor and a memory storing computer executable instructions. The dataport is coupled to the dataport connector of the holder for communicating with the vehicle computer. The computer executable instructions when executed by the processor cause the processor to receive telematics data from the telematics sensor and or the vehicle computer determine an orientation of the telematics sensor with respect to the vehicle and transmit data indicative of the telematics data and the orientation from the portable personal communications device to a remotely located computer.

In one embodiment the system includes a vehicle fastener for fastening the holder and or the OBD port connector to the vehicle and or the onboard diagnostics port associated with the vehicle computer. Optionally the system includes a device fastener for fastening the holder to the portable personal communications device. In some of these embodiments the device fastener automatically prevents the removal of the portable personal communications device from the holder upon detection of an engine start. In certain embodiments the telematics sensor includes an accelerometer configured to detect acceleration in three dimensions. The system may include a power converter for receiving power from the vehicle computer and supplying power to the portable personal communications device.

In some embodiments the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor cause the processor to transmit data to the vehicle computer. The data transmitted to the vehicle computer includes navigation information vehicle control information and or vehicle multimedia instructions. Optionally the data transmitted to the vehicle computer includes vehicle control instructions to prevent engine start and or limit vehicle speed.

In certain embodiments the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor cause the processor to identify a characteristic of the vehicle and retrieve a vehicle computer communication protocol based on the identified characteristic. In these embodiments the computer executable instructions may cause the processor to identify the vehicle characteristic by presenting a user interface and receiving information about the vehicle via the user interface and or automatically obtaining information about the vehicle from the vehicle computer via an onboard diagnostics port associated with the vehicle. Optionally the computer executable instructions may cause the processor to retrieve the vehicle computer communication protocol by retrieving the protocol from a database stored in a local memory and or by retrieving the protocol from an external source. In some embodiments the computer executable instructions cause the processor to determine the orientation of the telematics sensor by determining the orientation based on the identified vehicle characteristic. In these embodiments the computer executable instructions may cause the processor to determine the orientation by retrieving the orientation from a database stored in a local memory and or by retrieving the orientation from an external source.

According to another aspect the invention relates to a method for providing insurance to a vehicle. The method includes providing a system for transmitting telematics information from at least one vehicle with a vehicle computer receiving with a second processor data based at least in part on telematics information indicative of the operation of the vehicle s and adjusting with the second processor an underwriting process a premium determination process and or a workflow process based on the received data. The system includes a holder for a portable personal communications device configured to maintain the personal communications device in a stable position and a stable orientation with respect to the vehicle s . The holder also has an onboard diagnostics OBD port connector and a dataport connector communicatively coupled to the OBD port connector. The system also includes a portable personal communications device with a telematics sensor a dataport a processor and a memory. The dataport is coupled to the dataport connector of the holder for communicating with the vehicle computer.

In some embodiments the premium determination process includes the determination of an initial insurance quote and or an insurance renewal quote. In certain embodiments receiving data with the second processor includes receiving aggregate telematics information indicative of the operation of a plurality of vehicles and or receiving telematics information from the vehicle s a computer associated with an owner of the vehicle s and or a third party computer associated with the vehicle s . Optionally the telematics information indicative of the operation of the vehicle s includes telematics information from the portable personal communications device and from the vehicle computer.

In certain embodiments vehicle computer interface information may be electronically transmitted to the portable personal communications device. Optionally usage restrictions may be electronically transmitted to the portable personal communications device and the personal communications device and the vehicle computer may be used to enforce the transmitted restrictions.

According to yet another aspect the invention relates to an apparatus for providing telematics information from a vehicle. The apparatus includes an onboard diagnostics port OBD connector an electronic output in communication with a portable personal communications device and a rigid body configured to maintain telematics sensor s in a stable position and a stable orientation with respect to the vehicle. The apparatus also includes circuitry configured to receive telematics information from a vehicle computer via the OBD connector and to output the received telematics information via the electronic output to the portable personal communications device.

In some embodiments the telematic sensor s are incorporated into the rigid body and the circuitry is further configured to transmit the output of the at least one telematics sensor to the portable personal communications device via the electronic output. Optionally the electronic output is a dataport for accepting a communication cable or a wireless RF transmitter. In certain embodiments the rigid body includes a holder for securely holding the portable personal communications device in a stable position and stable orientation and the telematics sensor s are incorporated into the portable personal communications device. In one embodiment the circuitry is configured to select a vehicle computer communications protocol from a plurality of vehicle computer communications protocols for communicating with the vehicle computer

In yet another aspect the invention relates to a kit for providing telematics information from a vehicle with a vehicle computer. The kit includes a telematics adapter apparatus and a computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions which when executed on a processor cause the processor to carry out a method of providing telematics information for a vehicle having a vehicle computer. The telematics adapter apparatus includes an onboard diagnostics OBD port connector a dataport connector linked to the OBD port connector and a holder for a portable personal communications device. The dataport connector is configured to connect to the dataport of the portable personal communications device and the holder is configured to maintain the portable personal communications device in a stable position and a stable orientation with respect to the vehicle. The method includes receiving telematics information from the telematics sensor and or the vehicle computer. The method further includes determining the first orientation and transmitting the telematics information with a portable personal communications device.

To provide an overall understanding of the invention certain illustrative embodiments will now be described including systems and methods for providing telematics information from a vehicle. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the systems and methods described herein may be adapted and modified as is appropriate for the application being addressed and that the systems and methods described herein may be employed in other suitable applications and that such other additions and modifications will not depart from the scope thereof.

The telematics device may transmit information such as telematics information to for example the computer server associated with an insurance provider. The telematics device may also transmit telematics information to a vehicle owner s home computer system the computer system of a business that owns the vehicle as part of a fleet of vehicles or to the computer system of a third party monitoring agency that may be engaged by the vehicle owner to monitor the vehicle. Computer systems and may then transmit raw telematics information processed telematics information or data based on the telematics information to the insurance provider computer server .

In some embodiments the cradle includes an OBD port connector fastener disposed on arm for securing the OBD port connector to the OBD port of a vehicle. For example the OBD port connector fastener may include one or more clips or resilient bands that fasten to the vehicle OBD port. For example the OBD port connector fastener may include one or more spring hinged or flexible clips that are configured to snap over portions of the vehicle OBD port structure and secure the OBD port connector to the vehicle OBD port. In other embodiments the OBD port connector fastener may be a vehicle fastener that fastens to a portion of the vehicle instead of or in addition to the vehicle OBD port. For example the OBD port connector fastener may include one or more adhesive pads to fasten the cradle to one or more internal vehicle surfaces near the vehicle OBD port thereby securing the OBD port connector to the vehicle OBD port.

The cradle includes a device fastener or restraint to prevent removal of a portable personal communications device or smartphone placed within the holder . The device restraint has at least two different configurations. In one configuration the device restraint does not interfere with the insertion or removal of the personal communications device into or out of the holder . In a second configuration the device restraint is configured to prevent the removal of the personal communications device from the holder once the device has been inserted into the holder .

Since many vehicle OBD ports are located in recessed out of the way locations the arm is configured to maintain the holder at a sufficient distance away from the OBD port such that components of the vehicle and or the cradle do not interfere with each other. In one embodiment the arm is also configured to maintain the holder in a stable known position and orientation with respect to the vehicle OBD port and or the vehicle. For example the arm may be substantially rigid. In some embodiments the arm may be adjustable enabling the holder to be placed in one of a plurality of predetermined and known stable positions and or orientations. For example arm may include a joint or pivot point not shown that the holder may be able to rotate about.

The cradle may include a biometric sensor mounted on the holder . The biometric sensor may be configured to detect biometric data from a user and transmit it to the smartphone or the vehicle computer. In some embodiments the biometric sensor may be a fingerprint scanner configured to detect the fingerprint of a user.

The smartphone may be an IPHONE device manufactured by Apple Inc. located in Cupertino Calif. or any other suitable smartphone or portable personal communications device with one or more telematics sensors such as accelerometers and or Global Positioning System sensors.

The cradle is configured to hold the smartphone in a known stable position and orientation. The holder and device restraint keeps the smartphone from shifting and the arm maintains the holder and the smartphone in a stable position and orientation with respect to the vehicle vehicle OBD port. The stable position and orientation of the smartphone enables data from telematics sensors within the smartphone such as accelerometers to accurately reflect the behavior of the vehicle.

By maintaining the holder and by extension a smartphone placed in holder in a stable known position and orientation with respect to the vehicle telematics information from telematics sensors within the smartphone can be calibrated with the known position orientation information to provide telematics information that reflects vehicle behavior. For example a smartphone with an accelerometer can provide acceleration information about the smartphone. If the smartphone is present in a vehicle for example in the driver s pocket then the smartphone acceleration information may somewhat reflect the acceleration behavior of the vehicle. However because the smartphone is free to move and jostle about within the driver s pocket the acceleration data from the smartphone cannot be correlated directly to vehicle acceleration behavior. If the smartphone is instead placed in a holder that is directly physically connected to the vehicle and prevents the smartphone from moving with respect to the vehicle then the acceleration information provided by the smartphone is more closely correlated to vehicle acceleration. Accelerometers are also useful because they can provide information that a vehicle computer may not be able to provide. For example a vehicle computer may be equipped to detect when vehicle antilock brakes activate indicative of heavy braking. However user behavior or certain road conditions may not require the activation of vehicle antilock brakes even when heavy braking occurs. Under these conditions while the vehicle computer would not output a detection of antilock brake activation thereby indicating a hard braking incident accelerometers would detect the rapid deceleration due to the heavy braking and thus allow the vehicle behavior to be captured more accurately.

The orientation of the smartphone and by extension its accelerometer is also relevant for calibration of the acceleration data. For example if the position of an accelerometer with respect to a vehicle is known but its orientation with respect to the vehicle is unknown there is no way to distinguish if the acceleration is in a horizontal direction e.g. the driver accelerating braking changing lanes or turning or in a vertical direction e.g. the vehicle has just driven into a ditch or over a hilly stretch of road. Similarly while some smartphones can determine orientation using gravity based calibration techniques these gravity based techniques do not necessarily precisely correspond to the actual orientation of the vehicle. For example a smartphone in a vehicle using gravity based calibration may detect that its orientation is level even when the vehicle is parked on a slope.

Thus a holder that not only holds the smartphone in a stable known position but also holds the smartphone in a stable known orientation allows smartphone acceleration information to be calibrated to closely correlate with vehicle acceleration. The cradle and holder is configured to hold a smartphone in a stable known position and a stable known orientation with respect to a vehicle OBD port and by extension the vehicle. Other vehicle phone holders may allow smartphones to be held in reasonably stable positions but do not provide the certainty of position and orientation that the OBD connected cradle provides.

In one embodiment the system for providing telematics information from a vehicle includes the smartphone cradle as described above. The system also includes software operative to process telematics data received from telematics sensors in the smartphone telematics sensors in the vehicle or from the vehicle computer. In one embodiment the smartphone cradle is packaged with the software as a kit for a system for providing telematics information from a vehicle. In this embodiment the software may be provided on a computer readable medium. In other embodiments the kit may include a network address along with an optional identification or authentication code. The user may then connect to the network address to download the software either directly onto a smartphone or onto a computer which then transfers the software onto the smartphone. In embodiments including identification or authentication codes the user may need to provide the code before being able to download the software.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that provides or participates in providing instructions to the processor of the computing device or any other processor of a device described herein for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media include for example optical magnetic or opto magnetic disks such as memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM or EEPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor or any other processor of a device described herein for execution. For example the instructions may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over an Ethernet connection cable line a telephone line using a modem or even wirelessly. A communications device local to a computing device or e.g. a server can receive the data on the respective communications line and place the data on a system bus for the processor. The system bus carries the data to main memory from which the processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored in memory either before or after execution by the processor. In addition instructions may be received via a communication port as electrical electromagnetic or optical signals which are exemplary forms of wireless communications or data streams that carry various types of information.

The wireless telematics device further includes processing circuitry configured to receive data from telematics sensors in the telematics device or in the vehicle via the OBD port connector and also to transmit telematics data via an included wireless transmitter. The processing circuitry may be configured to transmit the unprocessed telematics data received directly from the telematics sensors or may be configured to process the telematics data before transmission. For example the wireless telematics device may convert unprocessed data received from an internal accelerometer to acceleration data based on orientation and position information that may be stored in the local storage device.

The wireless telematics system may include a power supply not shown such as a battery pack for powering the wireless telematics device . In some embodiments the wireless telematics system may receive power from a vehicle computer through the OBD port connector and may also charge any included power supplies with the received power.

The vehicle may include one or more vehicle user interfaces . The vehicle user interfaces may include without limitation audiovisual systems display screens and user input devices such as touchscreens buttons or any device suitable for user input.

The system includes a cradle and a smartphone described with relation to . The cradle includes an OBD port connector and a dataport connector . The OBD port connector is coupled to the dataport connector through a data power converter . The converter which may be located in the arm includes processing circuitry for converting data between the format received by the OBD port connector and the dataport connector . For example if the dataport connector is a mini USB port connector the processing circuitry in converter converts data received from the OBD port connector from an OBD port format to a USB format. Similarly the processing circuitry in converter converts data received from the mini USB port connector to an OBD port format. The converter is also configured to provide power from the vehicle computer through the OBD port to the smartphone via the dataport and the dataport connector .

In some embodiments the smartphone transmits data to the vehicle computer via the dataport OBD connection. This data may include without limitation vehicle navigation information vehicle control information and or vehicle multimedia information. For example audio directions for a particular destination may be transmitted to the vehicle computer which may then play the audio instructions via vehicle user interfaces . Similarly the smartphone may transmit instructions to the vehicle computer to limit the maximum speed or maximum acceleration. As yet another example the smartphone may be able to unlock vehicle doors by communicating with the vehicle computer . For example if a vehicle operator has accidentally locked the vehicle doors if the smartphone and the cradle remain linked to the vehicle computer the operator may be able to send an electronic message to or call the smartphone to have it instruct the vehicle computer to unlock the vehicle doors. Similarly the operator may be able to remotely start the vehicle by calling or sending a message to the smartphone .

In some embodiments the smartphone receives information from the vehicle computer via the dataport OBD connection. This information may include vehicle telematics data from vehicle telematics sensors and or other information related to the vehicle and its current condition. For example the smartphone may receive information about the number of passengers in the vehicle which may be determined by audio processing e.g. differentiating between the different voices heard in the vehicle or other sensor information e.g. weight sensors in the passenger seats .

The cradle may include a biometric sensor configured to detect biometric data from a user and transmit it to the smartphone . Optionally the biometric sensor may also be configured to transmit biometric data to the vehicle computer via the OBD port connector. The cradle also includes a device restraint as described above in relation to .

The smartphone includes a dataport and an accelerometer . Depending on the type of smartphone the dataport may be a mini USB port an IPHONE IPOD 30 pin port a Firewire port or any other suitable port. The smartphone communicates with the vehicle computer and optionally the biometric sensor via the dataport . The accelerometer is configured to provide measurements of acceleration in three dimensions. Optionally the smartphone may include other telematics sensors such as a Global Positioning System GPS sensor.

Since the OBD port in vehicle may be placed in an out of the way location the smartphone may experience decreased transmission reception signal strength when placed in the cradle . Therefore the system may include additional components configured to link to the smartphone and to increase the transmission reception signal strength. For example the system may include an antenna booster that may be configured as an extended antenna or signal repeater for the smartphone similar to the Vodafone 3G WCDMA2100 900 Omni Antenna sold by Vodafone located in Berkshire UK. Optionally for smartphones that include GPS sensors the system may include a GPS booster configured to increase satellite signal reception similar to the GPS booster used in the TomTom Car Kit for IPHONE sold by TomTom located in Concord Mass.

In other embodiments in addition to or in place of biometric sensor the cradle may include other suitable sensors not shown . For example the cradle may include one or more chemical sensors such as an alcohol sensor e.g. breathalyzer or a carbon monoxide sensor. Optionally the cradle may include an auxiliary sensor port not shown to which one or more external sensors such as a breathalyzer or a carbon monoxide sensor may be connected. This allows the external sensors to be placed some distance away from the cradle which mitigates the potential disadvantages that the out of the way location of the vehicle OBD port and the cradle may create. For example an external breathalyzer may be linked to the cradle auxiliary sensor port and placed within easy user access on the vehicle steering wheel instead of having to be placed near the out of the way vehicle OBD port.

In some embodiments the cradle may also include one or more telematics sensors such as accelerometers Global Positioning System GPS sensors and or gyroscopes. These sensors may be located for example on or in holder and or arm . In these embodiments the telematics sensors included within the cradle may provide telematics information that supplements the telematics information provided by the smartphone and or the vehicle telematics sensors . In other embodiments the cradle may be configured to hold a smartphone that does not include telematics sensors. In these embodiments the telematics sensors included within cradle may measure telematics information associated with the vehicle and store and or transmit the measured telematics information via the smartphone. For example the cradle may include one or more accelerometers configured to measure acceleration of the vehicle in three dimensions and store or transmit the measured acceleration information via the smartphone. If the smartphone also includes accelerometers then the cradle accelerometers may operate in conjunction with the smartphone accelerometers.

The dataport may be any type of connector used for physically interfacing with a smartphone such as a mini USB port or an IPHONE IPOD 30 pin connector. In other embodiments the dataport may include multiple communication channels for simultaneous communication with for example other processors servers or client terminals. Devices in communication with each other need not be continually transmitting to each other. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time and may require several steps to be performed to establish a communication link between the devices.

The accelerometer may be any miniature or MEMS based accelerometer suitable for use in a smartphone such as a LIS302DL MEMS motion sensor manufactured by STMicroelectronics located in Switzerland.

The memory may include both operating memory such as random access memory RAM as well as data storage such as read only memory ROM hard drives Flash memory or any other suitable memory storage element. The memory may include removable memory elements such as a CompactFlash card and or a Secure Digital card. In some embodiments the memory may comprise an appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory and may include for example RAM ROM flash drive an optical disc such as a compact disc and or a hard disk or drive. The processor and the memory each may be for example located entirely within a single computer or other computing device or connected to each other by a communication medium such as a USB port serial port cable a coaxial cable an Ethernet type cable a telephone line a radio frequency transceiver or other similar wireless or wired medium or combination of the foregoing. For example the processor may be connected to the memory via the dataport .

The user interface may include any user interface or presentation elements suitable for a smartphone such as keypads LCD display screens touchscreens microphones and speakers. The transceiver includes one or more transceiver modules capable of transmitting and receiving data using protocols such as GSM IS 95 CDMA GSM EDGE UMTS CDMA2000 WIFI WIMAX or any other suitable protocol.

Memory stores software or vehicle computer communication protocols for processing telematics information and or communicating with other systems such as the vehicle computer . Vehicle computer communication protocols may include for example processor interface protocols PIPs application programming interfaces APIs or onboard diagnostics interface protocols such as OBD I OBD 1.5 OBD II EOBD EOBD2 JOBD or any other similar protocol. The memory may store for example i a program e.g. computer program code and or a computer program product adapted to direct the processor in accordance with the present invention and particularly in accordance with the processes described in detail with regard to the CPU and or ii databases adapted to store information that may be utilized to store information required by the program. Suitable databases include orientation database and vehicle computer communication protocol database .

The software also may include program elements such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers that allow the processor to interface with computer peripheral devices e.g. an external video display a keyboard a computer mouse etc. . The software may be stored for example in a compressed an uncompiled and or an encrypted format and may include computer program code. The instructions of the program may be read into a main memory of the processor from a computer readable medium. While execution of sequences of instructions in the program causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

In other embodiments processor may be configured in many different ways. For example processor may be a conventional standalone computer or alternatively the function of processor may be distributed across multiple processors and architectures.

Processor may be configured in a distributed architecture wherein databases and processors are housed in separate units or locations. Some such units perform primary processing functions. In such an embodiment each of these units is attached to a communications hub or port that serves as a primary communication link with other servers client or user computers and other related devices. The communications hub or port may have minimal processing capability itself serving primarily as a communications router. A variety of communications protocols may be part of the system including but not limited to Ethernet SAP SAS ATP BLUETOOTH GSM and TCP IP.

The communications module is configured to handle communications links between the smartphone and other external devices or receivers and to route incoming outgoing data appropriately. For example data going to or coming from the smartphone dataport is first routed through the communications module before being directed to or from the configuration module and or the processing module . Similarly data to or from the transceiver is first routed through the communications module .

The configuration module is configured to establish the initial calibration parameters for the telematics information system. The configuration module is linked to the communications module the user interface module the database and the processing module . During the initialization process discussed further below in relation to the configuration module collects vehicle information from the communications module and or the user interface module . For example the configuration module may identify the vehicle make and or model via the communications module which is linked to the vehicle computer through the smartphone dataport. The configuration module may also collect vehicle identification data from the user interface module . For example the configuration module may instruct the user interface module to present a graphical user interface with user interface by which a user can enter relevant vehicle information.

Based on the received vehicle information the configuration module determines the appropriate operating configuration such as a suitable vehicle computer communication protocols for communicating with the vehicle computer and or position orientation data for calibrating the smartphone telematics sensor s . The configuration module may access this data from the database which contains an orientation database and a vehicle computer communication protocol database . Database is stored on memory . In some embodiments the configuration module may access this data on a remote source or device via the communications module . Optionally the configuration module may also transmit data and or software to the vehicle computer via communications module . The configuration and initialization process is described further in relation to below.

The telematics application module is configured to collect telematics information from smartphone telematics sensors such as the smartphone accelerometer as well as from the vehicle computer. The telematics application module is linked to processing module which processes raw telematics information received from the telematics application module with calibration information provided by the configuration module to determine actual vehicle acceleration data. This actual vehicle acceleration data is then transmitted to a remote server such as a remote server associated with an insurance company via the communications module and the transceiver . In some embodiments the determined vehicle acceleration data may be stored in database .

If the system is configured to gather vehicle information manually the initialization process begins at step . In step the system presents a graphical user interface for a user to input vehicle information such as a vehicle make or model identification. The graphical user interface is presented via the user interface of a smartphone. After the user has provided vehicle identification information the system then determines and receives in step the appropriate vehicle computer communication protocol for interfacing with the onboard vehicle computer. In some embodiments a smartphone may determine based on the vehicle identification information the appropriate protocol. The protocol is then loaded from a local or a remote database. For example a local storage device such as memory in the smartphone may contain a database with a plurality of vehicle computer communication protocols each configured to operate with a particular vehicle computer type. When the smartphone has determined the appropriate protocol it loads the protocol into operating memory from the database on the local storage device . Optionally protocols may be stored on a remote database. In these embodiments the smartphone may determine the appropriate protocol from the user input vehicle identification information and explicitly request the protocol from the remote database via for example a wireless request transmitted with one of the wireless protocols described above. Optionally the smartphone may query a remote server coupled to the remote database with the user provided vehicle information. The remote server may process the vehicle identification information to determine the appropriate protocol and then transmit the protocol to the smartphone. In step the smartphone is then inserted into a cradle such as cradle described above in relation to . After the smartphone is inserted into the cradle the process continues with step where the smartphone establishes contact with the vehicle computer through a dataport connector located in the cradle and begins to perform initial processing.

In other embodiments the initialization process may involve the automatic collection of vehicle identification information. In these embodiments the initialization process begins with step in which a smartphone is inserted into a cradle such as cradle described above in relation to . Upon insertion into the cradle the smartphone interfaces with the dataport connector located in the cradle and attempts to detect vehicle identification information in step . In some embodiments this is performed by the configuration module . The smartphone may attempt identification by for example querying the onboard vehicle computer through the OBD port. Once the smartphone has detected vehicle identification information in step it will attempt to retrieve an appropriate vehicle computer communication protocol for interfacing with the vehicle computer. As with step described above the smartphone may retrieve an appropriate protocol from a local database request an appropriate protocol from a remote database or query a remote server coupled to a remote database for the appropriate protocol. Once an appropriate protocol has been retrieved or received in step the smartphone will establish contact with the vehicle computer and begin initial processing.

Regardless of whether vehicle identification information was obtained manually step or automatically step after the smartphone has retrieved the appropriate vehicle computer communication protocol for interfacing with the vehicle computer and is inserted into the holder the smartphone will interface with the vehicle computer and perform initial processing in step . Initial processing may include without limitation verifying the identity identification of the vehicle verifying that the current protocol is appropriate transmitting user information and preferences to the vehicle computer downloading relevant telematics information from the vehicle computer and or updating software present on the vehicle computer and may be performed by configuration module . In some embodiments initial processing may include uploading specialized software onto the vehicle computer. The specialized software may assist the smartphone in collecting vehicle telematics information and or may assist the smartphone in controlling vehicle functions. In certain embodiments initial processing includes the identification of a user via biometric information. For example a user may need to provide biometric identification information in order to start the engine. In some embodiments the system uses the biometric identification to load a profile that corresponds to the user. This profile may include for example maximum allowable speed restricted geographic areas and other user preferences and or restrictions. In some embodiments the user may need to provide further authentication or authorization information. For example the user may need to pass a breathalyzer test before the system will allow the vehicle to be operated.

Initial processing may also include determining the particular position and orientation of the accelerometer or other telematics sensor in the smartphone. Since each model of vehicles has a standardized OBD port location and orientation once the system identifies the vehicle it determines the particular standardized OBD port location and orientation associated with that vehicle model. The system may determine the OBD location by looking it up in a local or remote database or by querying a remote server with the vehicle identification information. In addition for embodiments in which the smartphone holder orientation may be adjusted between a number of predetermined configurations for example via adjusting a joint or pivot point on arm the system determines the current predetermined configuration of the smartphone holder. Based on this information and the vehicle OBD location orientation the system determines an accelerometer position and orientation.

After step has been completed the system locks the smartphone to prevent its removal. The system may lock the smartphone in the cradle by actuating device restraint described above in relation to . Optionally the system may check to see if the smartphone is actually located in the cradle by for example a magnetic sensor located in the cradle. In some embodiments after locking the smartphone in the cradle the system allows the vehicle engine to be started. In these embodiments the vehicle engine may not be started if there is no smartphone placed in the cradle. Thus the system can assure that the user cannot use the smartphone while the vehicle engine is running.

After locking the smartphone in the cradle in step the system begins transmitting and or recording telematics information from the accelerometer within the smartphone and or vehicle telematics sensors step . In one embodiment the transmission of telematics information is performed by the smartphone which transmits the telematics information via a wireless protocol to a network such as the Internet. Optionally the smartphone may transmit the telematics information directly to a server associated with an insurance company. Optionally the system may enter a steady state operational process further described with relation to .

Vehicle or smartphone events may occur while the system is engaged in step . These events may include without limitation the smartphone receiving a call or message the vehicle being involved in an accident or vehicular incidents such as exceeding a particular speed limit or passing beyond a prescribed geographic area. If such an event occurs the system first determines in step if it is a vehicle event or a phone event. The system may determine if an event is a vehicle event by monitoring telematics information or changes in telematics information provided by a smartphone telematics sensor and or a vehicle telematics sensor. For example if the system detects a sudden deceleration and or an airbag deployment it may determine that a vehicle event such as an accident has occurred.

If the system determines that a vehicle event has occurred such as an accident the system will log information related to the incident step . This information may include geographic location vehicle speed time of day weather conditions acceleration or deceleration or any other information from smartphone telematics sensors vehicle telematics sensors or any other information source. The system may then determine the type of incident and a suitable response step based in part on the information logged in step . For example if the incident information includes a sharp deceleration the system may decide that a vehicle collision has occurred. Suitable responses to incidents may be preprogrammed into the system or be available from a remote source. For example the system may be preprogrammed to notify emergency responders and or one or more contacts if an accident occurs. In this case if the system determines that an accident has occurred it will notify the emergency responders and the preprogrammed contacts via for example a phone call a text message and or an email. As another example if the system detects that the vehicle has exceeded a particular preset speed the system may instruct the vehicle to reduce speed to the preset speed and to not allow the vehicle to exceed the preset speed. Optionally the system may also inform the user via vehicle user interfaces for example that vehicle speed has been limited. In some embodiments instead of instructing the vehicle to reduce speed the system may warn the user that the preset speed has been exceeded and instruct the user to reduce speed. These warnings and instructions can be provided via the vehicle user interface as for example a displayed or audio message. As yet another example the system may be preprogrammed to warn the user and notify authorities if the vehicle leaves or is about to leave a permitted geographic operating area or enters a restricted geographic area. In this case when the system detects that the vehicle is approaching a boundary of the permitted or restricted area the system may warn the user via the vehicle user interface that the vehicle is approaching a boundary and instruct the user to change course. Simultaneously the system may log the incident or notify authorities via for example a phone call a text message and or an email. If the vehicle actually crosses the boundary the system may send a further notification to authorities and may also render the vehicle inoperable or less operable by limiting its speed. This may occur as soon as the vehicle crosses the boundary or may occur at a preset time or distance after the boundary has been violated. For example the system may shut the vehicle down one minute after crossing the boundary to allow the user sufficient time to reverse course. If the user does reverse course and cross back across the boundary the system may not shut the vehicle down. The system may impose similar restrictions on the time of day during which a given driver may operate a vehicle preventing the driver from turning on the vehicle after a configurable time or limiting a speed after the configurable time.

Suitable responses to incidents may be preprogrammed into the system by the user or by a third party. The responses may vary with the severity of the incident as reflected by the logged incident data. For example if an accident with a relatively low deceleration rate occurs the system may notify the police and one or more preprogrammed contacts. However if an accident with a relatively large deceleration rate occurs the system may notify the police department the fire department and an ambulance service as well as the one or more preprogrammed contacts. In some embodiments the system may be preprogrammed to respond in a particular way for particular incidents or incident types. For example the system may be preprogrammed to always notify the police department the fire department and an ambulance service if an accident occurs. Optionally the system may be able to dynamically determine an appropriate response for a particular incident such as basing the response on the severity of the accident as described above. In addition the system may forward telematics information related to the accident such as location of the vehicle speed of the vehicle at impact point of impact on the vehicle whether airbags were deployed any occurrence of a rollover detection of a fuel leak etc. to emergency responders to better prepare them for responding to the incident.

After determining the appropriate response the system then initiates the response in step then reverts to the steady state condition in step . In some embodiments the system may continue to initiate the response until it is physically deactivated.

If at step the system determines that a phone event such as an incoming call or message has occurred it routes the incoming call or message step to an appropriate receiver such as a wireless Bluetooth enabled hands free headset. In some embodiments the headset may be physically hardwired to the smartphone or to the cradle . The system may convert text messages or emails into audio data that can be played on the hands free headset.

In the above embodiments the process steps may be performed by a smartphone and or processing circuitry located elsewhere. For example processing circuitry located in cradle and or the vehicle computer may perform some or all of the process steps described above. In some embodiments the smartphone may load software for performing some or all of the above process steps onto the vehicle computer during for example the initial processing step .

In step vehicle telematics information is received from the telematics system s which are linked to vehicle telematics sensors or other telematics sensors such as the smartphone accelerometer described above in relation to . In some embodiments the vehicle telematics information may include other vehicle information received from for example the vehicle computer . For example other vehicle information may include the number of passengers in the vehicle or any scheduled vehicle maintenance tasks. This additional information provides a fuller more complete dataset about the vehicle which may be useful for insurance underwriting and workflow adjustment purposes.

The received telematics information is then processed in step by for example smartphone processor . Processing received telematics information may include converting the telematics information into different data formats. For example telematics information received from vehicle telematics sensors may be in a special format that is not compatible with standard data processing software. Processing telematics information may also include combining raw telematics sensor information into vehicle parameters such as acceleration. For example the smartphone processor may combine information received from the smartphone accelerometer with information about the position and orientation of the smartphone with respect to the vehicle in order to determine vehicle acceleration information. In addition the processing may include summarizing telematics data collected over a period of time filtering the raw data encrypting and or compressing the telematics data. Some or all of the processing may be carried out by software executing on a user s home computer on a computer of a third party monitoring service or on a computer of a company operating a fleet of vehicles. In the fleet context in particular the processing may also include anonymizing data or aggregating data from multiple drivers into a fleet driving profile.

After the telematics information has been processed in step the processed information is transmitted to an insurance company computer or server in step . This is accomplished by the smartphone which transmits the information via its transceiver over a ground cellular network a WIMAX link or other long range broadband wireless data link. The insurance company server receives the transmitted information via for example the Internet and incorporates the received information into one or more owner associated profiles and or models such as an owner record step . In some embodiments the insurance company server may receive raw telematics information representative of a single vehicle or a fleet of vehicles or aggregate processed telematics information which may be anonymized or summarized.

This received information is then used for insurance processing such as adjusting an underwriting process a workflow process a claims resolution process or a premium determination process step . For example the server may use the received information to adjust a quote for a new insurance policy for example after a trial period during which data is collected or a quote for renewing an insurance policy. If the received information indicates risky behavior on the part of the vehicle operator s then the quoted rates may increase or the coverage may be declined. Similarly if the received information indicates safe behavior on the part of the vehicle operator s then the quoted rates may decrease. Alternatively the data could be used to adjust a premium during the term of an existing insurance policy. As another example if the server receives information that a particular owner has just been involved in a severe vehicle accident it may notify emergency responders and or initiate an investigation into the circumstances and extent of the accident in anticipation of an accident claim.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the invention.

