---

title: Method and system for remote access control
abstract: A method to learn and then pair with a pre-installed access control system of a vehicle is discussed. Communication is exchanged between the access control system and a backend cloud-based system. Required data of the access control system including its particular authentication code is extracted by a learning device. A vehicle matching data is sent to the backend cloud-based system and the vehicle is registered with the backend cloud-based system. The learning device is registered to the access control system in accordance with learning procedures implemented in the vehicle as remote entry key. The learning device is coupled to a Radio Frequency signal transmitter that has Application-Specific Integrated Circuits to generate stable RF signals at multiple frequency wavelengths. Registration of learning device includes, receiving a first access control telegram message, transmitting the first access control telegram message to the access control system, pairing the learning device with the access control system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483886&OS=09483886&RS=09483886
owner: Continental Intelligent Transportation Systems, LLC
number: 09483886
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150929
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 189 648 filed Jul. 7 2015 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR REMOTE ACCESS CONTROL as well as the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 058 410 filed Oct. 1 2015 entitled Package Delivery To and Pick Up From A Vehicle and both are incorporated herein by reference.

The design generally relates to a remote access control system for motor vehicles and its various use cases that include a package exchange scenario with a vehicle.

Typically physical key fobs are created and sold with a particular vehicle to allow remote access into the vehicle. This technology instead provides remote creation of a key fob in the field.

In general a method to learn and then pair with a pre installed access control system of a vehicle includes a number of example steps. Communications are exchanged between the pre installed access control system in that vehicle and either of a backend cloud based system or by a handheld computer device. When the communications are directly between the handheld computer device and the pre installed access control system in that vehicle then additional communications may occur between the handheld computer device and the backend cloud based system. Communications is exchanged between the pre installed access control system in that vehicle and a learning device to extract for one time any required data for the access control system including its particular authentication code of that vehicle. The pre installed access control system in that vehicle has one or more receiving devices and a controller that manages key credentials. By sending a set of vehicle matching data to the backend cloud based system the vehicle is registered with the backend cloud based system. The vehicle matching data is then stored in a database associated with the backend cloud based system. The vehicle matching data is used by a first routine running on servers of the backend cloud based system to obtain and send a first access control telegram message of the vehicle to the learning device. The learning device which facilitates as a key like simulator is registered to a memory in the pre installed access control system in the vehicle in accordance with learning procedures implemented particular to that vehicle s Make and Model when adding regular remote entry keys. The learning device is registered as an additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system of the vehicle. The learning device is coupled to a Radio Frequency signal transmitter. The RF signal transmitter is used for transmitting RF signals to a Radio Frequency receiver associated with the access control system of a vehicle. The RF signal transmitter has one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs to be highly configurable in generating a set of two or more stable RF signals at multiple frequency wavelengths. The registration of the learning device to facilitate as the additional remote entry key for the vehicle can include a group of steps. 1 A first access control telegram message with a first set of signaling parameters is received by the learning device from the backend cloud based system. The first access control telegram message and the signaling parameters can be associated with the vehicle matching data of the vehicle and with a Radio Frequency signal corresponding to the access control system of a vehicle. The first access control telegram message can include a sequence of identification and authorization steps to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of that particular Make and Model of the vehicle. The backend cloud based server cooperates with the database to select the sequence of identification and authorization steps to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of that particular Make and Model of the vehicle including the specific frequency wavelengths of access control system to register the additional remote entry key in the access control system of the vehicle. The sequence of identification and authorization steps are communicated with the first access control telegram message from a set of two or more stored registration procedures in the database. The database indexes the two or more sets of stored registration by Make and Model of a vehicle type. The first access control telegram message can also include the specific frequency wavelengths of access control system to register the additional remote entry key in the access control system of the vehicle. 2 The first access control telegram message is sent to the RF signal transmitter. 3 The first access control telegram message that can include the sequence of identification and authorization steps is transmitted by the RF signal transmitter to the pre installed access control system of the vehicle. The transmitted RF signals are characterized by the first set of signaling parameters such as the specific frequency wavelengths of access control to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle. 4 The learning device is paired with the pre installed access control system of the vehicle in accordance with the learning procedures implemented in the vehicle. An ID of the additional remote entry key is registered with the memory in the pre installed access control system. The backend cloud stores the first access control telegram message in a set of two or more stored registration procedures in the database. The database indexes the two or more sets of stored registration by Make and Model of a vehicle type.

In an embodiment a client device for learning and then paring with a pre installed access control system of a vehicle is described. The client device has a learning device that has one or more processors and is configured to perform actions via one or more modules of the learning device that are configured to execute on the one or more processors. The learning device can exchange communications between the pre installed access control system in that vehicle and a backend cloud based system or by a handheld computer device. The learning device can exchange communications with the pre installed access control system to extract for one time any required data for the access control system including its particular authentication code of that vehicle. The pre installed access control system in that vehicle has one or more receiving devices and a controller that manages key credentials. The learning device can obtain and then send a vehicle matching data of the vehicle to the backend cloud based system to register the vehicle with the backend cloud based system. The vehicle matching data can be stored in a database associated with the backend cloud based system. The vehicle matching data can be used to obtain a first access control telegram message of the vehicle from a set of two more access control telegrams stored in the backend cloud based system. Each of the two more access control telegrams may be particular to a particular Make and Model of a vehicle. The client device also includes a Radio Frequency signal transmitter coupled to the learning device. The RF signal transmitter can transmit RF signals to a Radio Frequency receiver associated with the access control system of the vehicle. The RF signal transmitter has one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs and can generate a set of two or more stable RF signals at multiple frequency wavelengths. The learning device can to be registered to a memory in the pre installed access control system in the vehicle. The learning device can to be registered in accordance with learning procedures implemented in the vehicle when adding regular remote entry keys. The learning device can to be registered as an additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system of the vehicle. The registration of the learning device as the additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system of the vehicle can include the following steps. A first access control telegram message along with a first set of signaling parameters is received by the learning device from the backend cloud based system. The first access control telegram message and the signaling parameters can be associated with the vehicle matching data of the vehicle and a Radio Frequency signal corresponding to the access control system of the vehicle. The first access control telegram message can include a sequence of identification and authorization steps to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle. The first access control telegram message can also include the specific frequency wavelengths of access control system to register the additional remote entry key in the access control system of the vehicle. Then the learning device can send the first access control telegram message to the RF signal transmitter. Then the RF signal transmitter can transmit the first access control telegram message including the sequence of identification and authorization steps for that Make and Model of vehicle to the pre installed access control system of the vehicle. The transmitted RF signals can be characterized by the first set of signaling parameters including the specific frequency wavelengths of access control that can emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle. Next the learning device is paired with the pre installed access control system of the vehicle in accordance with the learning procedures implemented in the vehicle. An ID of the additional remote entry key can be registered with the memory in the pre installed access control system.

While the design is subject to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. The design should be understood to not be limited to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the design.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific package delivery services named components connections number of databases etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present design. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present design may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods have not been described in detail but rather in a block diagram in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present design. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. The specific details discussed in one embodiment may be reasonably implemented in another embodiment. The specific details may be varied from and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present design.

In general a client device can be used in the field such that a pre installed access control system of a target vehicle can learn an additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system. The additional remote entry key can be registered as an additional key fob with the access control system of the vehicle. The registration can happen in accordance with learning procedures implemented in the vehicle when adding regular remote entry keys and result in pairing the additional remote entry key with the pre installed access control system of the vehicle. The client device has a learning device that can be used as a medium for receiving learning commands and then transmitting the learning commands to the access control system of the vehicle. In general the learning commands depend on Make and Model of the vehicle. In a database of a backend cloud based system the learning commands of a number of vehicles based on Make and Model are stored as access control telegram messages. Including in the access control telegram messages or in addition to them signaling parameters of the access control system of the vehicles based on Make and Model are stored as well as a sequence of identification and authorization steps. The client device includes a Radio Frequency signal transmitter that is either coupled to the learning device or is included in the learning device. The RF signal transmitter has one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs to be highly configurable in generating a set of two or more stable RF signals at multiple frequency wavelengths. The RF signal transmitter can be used for transmitting RF signals to a Radio Frequency receiver associated with the access control system of the vehicle. The signaling parameters can be used to adjust the RF signal transmitter to the specific settings including specific wavelengths required for a specific Make and Model of a vehicle. Additionally the database of the backend cloud based system can include mathematical algorithms based on Make and Model of the vehicles to calculate the authorization keys of the access control system of the vehicle. The processors associated with the servers of the backend cloud based system can execute the algorithms and obtain the authorizations keys of vehicles based on Make and Model. By executing the algorithms the backend cloud based system can obtain the first as well as the consecutive authorization keys of the vehicles. Alternatively the first authorization key as well as the consecutive authorization keys of the vehicles in addition to Make and Model may depend on Vehicle Identification Number VIN of the vehicle. The backend cloud based system either directly communicates with the learning device or communicates through a handheld computer device and sends an access control telegram message for paring the learning device with the access control system of the vehicle. The learning device then communicates the access control telegram message to the RF signal transmitter coupled to it. The RF signal transmitter uses the access control telegram message and signaling parameters to adjust the parameters including wavelength of the transmitted RF signal to the RF receiver associated with the access control system of the vehicle. After transmitting the access control telegram message including the sequence of identification and authorization steps from the RF signal transmitter to the RF receiver of pre installed access control system of the vehicle the registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle is emulated and the learning device is paired with the access control system of the vehicle. Alternatively the backend cloud based system may send the mathematical algorithms to calculate the authorization keys of the access control system of the vehicle to the handheld computer device and the handheld computer device may calculate the authorization keys of the access control system of the vehicle based on Make and Model. Additionally after paring and in a subsequent point of time either the backend cloud based system or the handheld computer device can bypass the learning device and directly communicate with the RF signal transmitter and send another access control telegram message and a valid authorization key to the RF signal transmitter for commanding the access control system of the vehicle to perform actions such as unlocking doors opening windows opening trunks closing trunks turning engine on turning engine off opening and closing a sunroof or moon roof of the vehicle.

In general the remote access system to a vehicle uses a backend cloud based provider site. The following drawings and text describe various example implementations of the design. and illustrate additional example environments to implement the concepts.

The design seeks to enable vehicle owners and other authorized persons to access and operate vehicles in a convenient and cost efficient way. Use cases are for example 

Approximately 70 of all light vehicles on the roads globally today approx. 700 million vehicles have an RKE system installed. Approx. 85 of all light vehicles being manufactured today have an RKE system installed approx. 80 million vehicles p.a. . Approximately 95 have an LF immobilizer installed.

By using the existing RF receiver installed in those vehicles and their corresponding communication protocols the design addresses a particular large amount of vehicles other than Cellular Telematic Systems which currently address less than 10 of the vehicle stock. Smartphone to Vehicle systems are hardly relevant at all at this point in time since volumes are very low due to relatively high hardware costs for the required NFC Bluetooth or Wi Fi transceiver in the vehicle whether retrofitted or as original equipment .

In an embodiment the design uses a learning device for the sole purpose of extracting the required data once for the particular vehicle and then registering the vehicle in the backend cloud site. principle No 1 . The design also logically splits a typical key fob into separate hardware portions that are dynamically configurable i aka handheld RF signal transmitter Delivery Transmitter ii a software portion calculating the messages aka routine in the backend server or app in the smartphone and iii the mechanical or software buttons in the app in the smartphone aka option for the consumer to authorize access to the vehicle via this app to allow access to the vehicle principle No 2 once the initial sign up process has been done with the backend server.

The design allows programming an additional key ID device into almost any vehicle without any change required on the vehicle side. The programmed device is then emulated by a highly configurable RF signal transmitter hardware that is remote controlled by a backend server.

Further the design discloses embodiments that are suitable for retrofit as well as original equipment scenarios. In summary the design seeks to address the largest amount of vehicles with the lowest possible cost without the transactional inconvenience of having to physically hand out regular car keys to other persons who seek to access the vehicle. The design has many embodiments three are shown in to use a backend cloud site and one or more local computing devices to give access to a particular vehicle associated with a given user.

A client device for learning and then pairing a pre installed access control system of a vehicle can include a learning device that has one or more processors. The learning device can perform actions via one or more modules of the client device that can execute on the one or more processors. The learning device can exchange communication between the pre installed access control system in that vehicle and a backend cloud based system or by a handheld computer device .

The learning device of the client device can exchange communication with the pre installed access control system to extract any required data for the access control system including its particular authentication code one time for the vehicle . The pre installed access control system in that vehicle can have one or more receiving devices and a controller that manages key credentials.

Also the learning device can obtain and then send a vehicle matching data of the vehicle to the backend cloud based system and can register the vehicle with the backend cloud based system . The vehicle matching data is stored in a database associated with the backend cloud based system . The vehicle matching data can be used to obtain a first access control telegram message of the vehicle from the backend cloud based system .

Additionally a Radio Frequency signal transmitter can be coupled to the learning device via connection . The RF signal transmitter can transmit RF signals to the RF receiver associated with the access control system of the vehicle . The RF signal transmitter can have one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs and can generate a set of two or more stable RF signals at multiple frequency wavelengths.

Also the learning device can be registered to a memory in the pre installed access control system in the vehicle in accordance with learning procedures implemented in the vehicle when adding regular remote entry keys. The learning device can be registered as an additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system of the vehicles .

Additionally the registration of the learning device as the additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system of the vehicle can include a number of steps. In the first step the learning device can receive a first access control telegram message along with a first set of signaling parameters. The first access control telegram message and the first set of signaling parameters can be associated with the vehicle matching data of the vehicle and the RF signals corresponding to the access control system of the vehicle . The first access control telegram message and the first set of signaling parameters can be received from the backend cloud based system . The first access control telegram message can have a sequence of identification and authorization steps to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle such as the specific frequency wavelengths of access control system to register the additional remote entry key in the access control system of the vehicle .

In the second step for the registration of the learning device as the additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system the learning device can send the first access control telegram message to the RF signal transmitter .

In the third step for the registration of the learning device as the additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system the RF signal transmitter can transmit the first access control telegram message to the pre installed access control system of the vehicle . The first access control telegram message can include the sequence of identification and authorization steps. The transmitted RF signals can be characterized by the first set of signaling parameters that emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle such as the specific frequency wavelengths of access control system .

In the fourth and final step for the registration of the learning device as the additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system the learning device can be paired with the pre installed access control system of the vehicle in accordance with the learning procedures implemented in the vehicle by registering an ID of the additional remote entry key with the memory in the pre installed access control system .

In an embodiment the RF signal transmitter can include an LF transponder to communicate with an immobilization system in the vehicle. The RF signal transmitter can set specific frequency wavelengths for the immobilization system of the vehicle. In an example the RF signal transmitter can communicate with the immobilization system in the vehicle through the LF transponder of the RF signal transmitter. The communication can include adjusting the RF signal transmitter for a specific frequency wavelengths of the immobilization system.

Thus the design includes a method and system to learn and then pair to a pre installed access control system including its particular authentication code for a particular vehicle. The vehicle s particulars are learned and then paired by a remote backend server or by a handheld computer device smartphone by exchanging communications with the pre installed access control system in that vehicle. The learning device is configured to extract any required data for the access control system including its particular authentication code one time for the particular vehicle and then registering the particular vehicle in the backend cloud site and with receiving device s installed in the vehicle and a controller that manages key credentials. The learning a new ID process characterized by the following. A key like learning device is registered to a memory in the access control module in the vehicle in accordance to the procedures implemented in the vehicle when adding regular remote entry keys. The learning device communicates with a handheld computer device smartphone and or directly with the remote backend server. The handheld RF signal transmitter has one or more ASICs to be highly configurable in generating a set of two or more stable RF signals at different frequency wavelengths which is remote controlled by the software commands in the access control telegram message issued from a backend server. The handheld RF signal transmitter may also have a LF transponder to communicate with an immobilization circuit in the vehicle. The learning device transmits vehicle matching data required to generate control messages and authentication code to a handheld computer device smartphone and or remote backend server. A handheld computer device smartphone and or remote backend server transmits signaling parameters and message flow to the learning device in order to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle including the specific frequency wavelengths of access control and specific frequency wavelengths for the immobilization systems of the vehicle.

The learning device is configured to incorporate learning a device ID of a key fob simulator into the access control system of a vehicle by use of an LF transponder in conjunction with or in place of learning by RF protocols. The device may learn and then pair with a pre installed access control system of a vehicle. Communication is exchanged between the pre installed access control system in that vehicle and i a backend cloud based system having one or more servers running on a first group of one or more processors or ii a handheld computer device having a second group of one or more processors. Communication is exchanged communication between the pre installed access control system in that vehicle and a learning device to extract any required data for the access control system including its particular authentication code one time for that vehicle where the pre installed access control system in that vehicle has one or more receiving devices and a controller that manages key credentials. The vehicle and its information is registered with the backend cloud based system by sending a set of vehicle matching data to the backend cloud based system. The set of vehicle matching data is stored in a database associated with the backend cloud based system and is used by a routine running on the first group of processors of the servers of the backend cloud based system to obtain and send one or more access control telegram messages for the vehicle. The learning device which facilitates as a key like simulator is registered to a memory in the pre installed access control system in the vehicle in accordance with learning procedures implemented particular to that vehicle s Make and Model when adding regular remote entry keys as an additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system of the vehicle. The learning device is coupled to a Radio Frequency signal transmitter via being located inside the learning device or attached to the learning device. The RF signal transmitter is used for transmitting RF signals to a Radio Frequency receiver associated with the access control system of the vehicle. The learning device is also coupled to a Low Frequency LF transponder via being located inside the learning device or attached to the learning device. The LF transponder is used for communicating LF signals with an immobilization system associated with the access control system of the vehicle. The RF signal transmitter has one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs to be highly configurable in generating a set of two or more stable RF signals at multiple frequency wavelengths. The LF transponder may communicate in two or more frequency wavelengths as well.

The registration of the learning device to facilitate as the additional remote entry key for the vehicle includes the following steps. A first LF transponder configuration and data memory set corresponding to the access control system of the vehicle is received by the learning device from the backend cloud based system. The first LF transponder configuration and data memory set matches the requirements of that particular Make and Model of the vehicle including the specific frequency wavelengths of access control system to register the additional remote entry key in the access control system of the vehicle. The backend cloud based server cooperates with the database to select the first LF transponder configuration and data memory set from a set of two or more LF transponder configuration and data memory sets organized by the Make and Model of a vehicle. The learning device is paired with the pre installed access control system of the vehicle by communication between LF transponder and the immobilization unit. The learned data and configuration for at least one or both of the RF communication and the LF communication from the learning device is then transmitted back to the backend cloud system. The backend cloud system then uses the stored data for further communication with the vehicle as discussed herein.

When start authorization of a vehicle s engine is a feature that the RF signal transmitter is configured to generate the RF signal transmitter device will typically also require the LF hardware components to communicate with the vehicle s LF immobilizer and receive data from the vehicle s LF transmitter. Optionally the RF signal transmitter may also configure the optional LF interface receive and decipher LF messages from the vehicle and send LF or RF signals in return.

This system simulating a remote key fob integrates buttons software to calculate vehicle specific telegrams and hardware to generate vehicle specific radio frequency wavelengths separates these functions into two or more physical devices. The system simulating a remote key fob which has been programmed to the vehicle during initial set up is now logically split into three parts 

a The mechanical buttons remain with the user but in a smartphone application The user may push buttons in the app to send commands to the vehicle.

b The software that generates valid telegrams is now in the backend server. The calculation of parameters for the telegram can be calculated by the backend server or locally by processors in the smart phone. The backend site also references the databases for how to compose the sequence of back and forth communications with the on board intelligence in the vehicle for the telegrams on a per particular vehicle basis.

c The RF circuitry hardware which generates the radio frequency signal to the vehicle is now i located with the hand held computing device with the delivery associate ii located in a separate radio frequency device that couples with and cooperates with the hand held computing device or iii is installed in the vehicle and communicates with the hand held computing device. The RF circuitry hardware Delivery Transmitter relays a valid telegram received from the server Backend or from the local smart phone.

The design includes a method and system to control at least access to a vehicle from a backend server that sends an access control telegram to a local client device which establishes communication with the RF access control module in the vehicle with a receiving device installed in the vehicle and a controller that grants access upon successful authentication. The remote access process may be characterized by the following. The remote backend server generates an access control telegram message and then sends the access control telegram either directly or as an executable software package to a local handheld computer device such as a smartphone . The backend server is configured to cooperate with one or more databases to generate valid telegrams for vehicles of different models as well as for vehicles from two or more different vehicle manufactures. Next a calculation of a key authentication code particular for that unique vehicle with one or more processors can occur i in the remote backend server when sent directly or ii in the handheld computer device smartphone when sent as an executable software package. The server can transfer said access control telegram message and authentication code together with signaling parameters to a handheld RF signal transmitter i either located in the handheld computer or ii located as an attached device cooperating with the handheld computer or iii located inside the vehicle. The handheld RF signal transmitter is configured to propagate said access control telegram message and authentication code via an electromagnetic signal characterized by signaling parameters to the RF receiving circuit originally installed in the vehicle. The handheld RF signal transmitter has one or more ASICs to be highly configurable in generating a set of two or more stable RF signals at different frequency wavelengths which is remote controlled by the software commands in the access control telegram message issued from a backend server.

The design allows access control systems enable vehicle users to unlock lock and operate start motor vehicles. Various aspects of embodiments of the design incorporate 

1. A method and a system to learn a vehicle s access control system to a server with two use case solutions including i a retrofit solution to add valid IDs of additional remote entry key devices into the memory of a vehicle access circuit and registering that as a new valid ID with the vehicle access circuit and ii an original equipment manufacturing OE solution where additional valid remote valid IDs of additional remote entry key devices are loaded into the memory of a vehicle access circuit and registered as valid IDs with the vehicle access circuit 

a. Retrofit solution A method and a system for programming additional keys to existing vehicles in the market which allow to synchronize key credentials between the vehicle and a server by means of a Learning Device.

b. OE solution A method and a system for pre programming additional remote entry keys in addition to the typical amount of vehicle s pair of remote entry keys programmed into the memory of the vehicle s access control circuit when being manufactured which allow to synchronize key credentials between the vehicle and a server at a later point in time. Thus the additional remote entry key credentials can be retrieved and used at a later point in time without having to go through a triggering process to learn these credentials in the learning process.

2. A method and a system to control access to a vehicle consisting of at least one RF signal transmitter communicating with the vehicle and a smartphone and or backend server. The system emulates the communication between a regular RKE or PASE key device and a vehicle in such a way that it is identical to a regular key that is programmed to the vehicle.

a. Backend telegram generation In this embodiment the software code which calculates corresponding RKE messages in the following referred to as telegrams expected by the vehicle RF receiver runs on a backend server that communicates directly or via a smartphone with the RF signal transmitter that generates the corresponding electromagnetic RF signal.

b. Local telegram generation In this embodiment the software code which calculates corresponding RKE telegrams expected by the vehicle RF receiver is received as a software executable package that runs either on a smartphone or the RF signal transmitter that generates the corresponding electromagnetic RF signal. The executable software code required on the smartphone or the RF signal transmitter may be deployed via a backend server.

1. Two or more methods and systems 1a and 1b below are discussed to learn and then pair to a pre installed access control system including its particular authentication code for a particular vehicle by a remote backend server or handheld computer device smartphone exchanging communications with a pre installed access control system in that vehicle.

1a A method and a system for programming additional key IDs to existing vehicles in the field which allow to synchronize key credentials between the vehicle and a server.

This system requires the backend server cooperate with remote handheld computing device to act as a Learning Device . The Learning Device is required only once to perform the initial synchronization between the vehicle and the server. The Learning Device hardware has a functional super set of the majority of the learning procedures for all existing key devices in one market plus an additional interface to communicate with a server. The latter will typically be realized as an interface to communicate with a remote handheld computing device such as an app on a smartphone which then communicates with a backend server. The Learning Device incorporates all required hardware components to communicate with the vehicle during learning namely 

Step 1 A programming session is initiated and the Learning Device is programmed to the vehicle in accordance to the learning procedures implemented in the vehicle. Note the learning procedures are the same for all vehicles of the same make and model.

The database cooperating with the backend server is configured with a plurality of programming learning key procedures. The database contains a set of numerous programming learning key procedures and their corresponding particulars for the superset of the learning procedures in the market. The message flow as well as the data telegrams can be controlled via the server. For this purpose the backend server accesses a database that contains the vehicle model specific protocol descriptors. Further the database contains the corresponding messaging sequence for programming additional keys to the vehicle. The Learning Device configures its LF and RF interfaces as well as the optional immobilizer encryption engine according to the protocol descriptor.

Step 2 After the key credentials for that particular vehicle have been synchronized between the Learning Device and the vehicle in step 1 the Learning Device transmits these credentials to the backend server which stores them in a database.

Once the initial synchronization has taken place via 1a or 1b then a system to control access to a vehicle described in 2a and 2b may be used indefinitely.

1b A method and a system for pre programming additional keys to vehicles when being manufactured which allow to synchronize key credentials between the vehicle and a server at a later point in time.

Other than the system to learn existing vehicles in the field to a server this system does not require any additional device. It requires the manufacturer of the vehicle to pre program key credentials for additional keys which may be activated at a later point in the vehicle s lifetime. Alternatively the manufacturer may also realize this mechanism by allowing to program key credentials into a vehicle via the diagnostic interface without any data exchange over the vehicle s RF or LF interfaces.

Step 1 When the vehicle is manufactured typically with two key device IDs that are programmed into the memory of vehicle which are sold together with the vehicle. In addition to those two IDs for the physical key fob devices the manufacturer programs additional virtual key IDs with their corresponding credentials into the vehicle. The credentials of such virtual key IDs may be stored in a separate database than those that are sold with the vehicle. One or more of these additional key device IDs stored in the backend database may then be via the server assigned and imprinted into a device such as the user s smart phone when a user registers with the server in step 2.

Step 2 When the vehicle owner signs up for a service requiring granting access control to others or when he wants to use an alternative device such as a smartphone the service provider communicates with the manufacturers database for virtual key credentials. Subsequently those key credentials are synchronized with a database that the service provider manages.

Note once the initial synchronization has taken place in methods 1a or 1b then a system to control access to a vehicle described in 2a and 2b may be used indefinitely.

2. Two or more methods and systems 2a and 2b below are discussed to control at least access to a vehicle from a backend server sending an access control telegram to a local client device which establishes communication with the RF access control module in the vehicle.

2a A method and a system to control access to a vehicle consisting of at least one RF signal transmitter communicating with the vehicle and a smartphone and or backend server. The system emulates the communication between a regular RKE or PASE key device and a vehicle in such a way that it is identical to a regular key fob that is programmed to the vehicle.

Backend telegram generation In this embodiment the executable software code which calculates corresponding RKE messages in the following referred to as telegrams expected by the vehicle RF receiver runs on routines in a backend server which communicates either i directly with or ii via a smartphone with the RF signal transmitter component of the design that generates the corresponding electromagnetic RF signal. The backend server can handle different protocols that match specific vehicle models in particular markets. For this purpose the backend server is connected to one or more databases that contain the required protocol descriptors. In order to address individual vehicles the backend server is connected to a database that contains the individual vehicle key credentials which may be obtained by methods described in 1a or 1b. Each user s vehicle s can be registered with their particulars in the backend cloud site.

A person user who wants to send a command to a vehicle needs to be in possession of a handheld device like a smartphone that runs an application that has been registered with the backend server. The handheld computing device is configured to serve at least two purposes 

The RF signal transmitter hardware has a functional super set of the RF portion of all existing key fobs in one market plus an additional interface to communicate to a handheld device like a smartphone. The RF signal transmitter component of the design may be a separate device or mechanically integrated into the handheld device. If start authorization is a required feature the RF signal transmitter will typically also have the LF hardware components to communicate with the vehicle s LF immobilizer and receive data from the vehicle s LF transmitter. From a hardware perspective the RF signal transmitter may be identical to the RF signal transmitter in the Learning Device described in 1a.

Step 1 The user requests the execution of a command e.g. unlocking of the vehicle by using the user interface of his handheld device. The handheld device identifies itself when communicating with the backend server in a conventional well known and secure fashion.

By accessing vehicle specific key credential data and corresponding protocol descriptors from a database the backend server can calculate matching telegrams for individual vehicles. For RKE commands this typically means to assemble a telegram which contains a synchronization word an individual key ID number an action code such as unlock doors a rolling code counter and or additional encrypted authentication code. The backend server sends the telegram together with the protocol descriptor to the RF signal transmitter.

Step 2 The RF signal transmitter configures the RF interface in accordance with the signaling parameters contained in the protocol descriptor. Subsequently the RF signal transmitter sends out the telegram to the receiver circuit in the vehicle which in turn executes the commands. In essence the RF signal transmitter relays telegrams generated by the backend to the vehicle.

Optionally the RF signal transmitter may also configure the optional LF interface receive and decipher LF messages from the vehicle and send LF or RF signals in return.

2b A method and a system to control access to a vehicle including i at least one RF signal transmitter communicating with the vehicle ii a hand held computing device such as a smartphone and or iii a backend cloud site with a server and databases. The system emulates the communication between a regular RKE or PASE key fob device and a RF receiver circuit installed in a vehicle in such a way that it is identical to a regular key that is programmed to the vehicle.

Local telegram generation In this embodiment the executable software code which calculates corresponding RKE telegrams expected by the vehicle RF receiver runs either i on a smartphone or ii on the RF signal transmitter that generates the corresponding electromagnetic RF signal. The executable software code required on the smartphone or the RF signal transmitter may be deployed via a backend server. The backend server can provision software code that is tailored to individual vehicles by accessing a database with vehicle model specific protocol descriptors and a database with individual vehicle key credentials which may be obtained by methods similar to those described in 1a or 1b.

The RF signal transmitter hardware has a functional super set of the RF portion of all existing key fobs in one market plus an additional interface to communicate to a handheld device like a smartphone. The RF signal transmitter may be a separate device or mechanically integrated into the handheld device. If start authorization is a required feature the RF signal transmitter will typically also require the LF hardware components to communicate with the vehicle s LF immobilizer and receive data from the vehicle s LF transmitter. From a hardware perspective the RF signal transmitter may be identical to the Learning Device described in 1a.

Step 1 After registration to the service and initial synchronization of key credentials like described in 1a or 1b the user receives an individually tailored software package from a backend server to be installed on his handheld device or RF signal transmitter. The software package is able to calculate telegrams for the individual vehicle of the user. Key credentials may be securely stored within the software or in a dedicated memory secure element such as a SIM card.

Step 2 The user requests the execution of a command e.g. unlocking of the vehicle by using the user interface of his handheld device. The server either sends the telegram or has previously sent an executable software package to the handheld device or the RF signal transmitter. The software on the handheld device or the RF signal transmitter subsequently calculates matching telegrams with the particulars for the individual vehicle. For RKE commands this typically means to assemble a telegram which contains a synchronization word an individual key ID number an action code such as unlock doors a rolling code counter and or additional encrypted authentication code.

Step 3 The RF signal transmitter configures the RF interface in accordance with the signaling parameters contained in the protocol descriptor. Subsequently the RF signal transmitter sends out the telegram to the receiver circuit in the vehicle which in turn executes the commands.

Optionally the RF signal transmitter may also configure the optional LF interface receive and decipher LF messages from the vehicle and send LF or RF signals in return.

In this scenario a vehicle owner signs up for a service to get packages delivered into his vehicle. The user may set up the service by having the backend server learn the key ID particulars of the user s vehicle via method 1a or 1b. The delivery carrier will use two devices 

Method 2a is used to unlock and lock different vehicles. See for an example distribution of the distinct components making up this embodiment of the design.

In this scenario the RF signal transmitter is a mechanically separate device from the smartphone and installed inside of the vehicle. For example the RF signal transmitter may be part of an OBD dongle that is retrofitted to the vehicle. A user communicates via a standard interface such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi of his smartphone with the RF signal transmitter. The RF transmitter is installed inside of the vehicle and an app on the handheld computing device is configured to exchange communications with the RF transmitter is installed inside of the vehicle to access open and or unlock the vehicle.

Method 2a or 2b is used to access and optionally operate the vehicle. In a particular simple embodiment the system is merely used to gain access to the vehicle i.e. unlock and lock the doors. A regular car key is then used for operating the vehicle and the regular car key is left inside. See for an example distribution of the distinct components making up this embodiment of the design.

Next See for an example remote key fob simulator use case. Vehicles possess specific proprietary protocols and interfaces for unlocking opening and starting up and vehicles also have a limited number of registered key IDs usually two delivered with the vehicle and also only a limited number of slots in the memory to register additional learned valid key IDs usually the max. number of all valid key IDS is 8 . This may be a problem with a growing number of users such as at e.g. in corporate vehicle fleets rental car fleets or in the car sharing application services. The user is sent a key fob simulator such as a smart phone application. The application may have protocols to access multiple vehicles in general or may simply communicate with the backend server to obtain the protocol procedure for a given vehicle and manufacturer. A key fob is learned to a specific vehicle including immobilizer key credential secrets over the air by a communication which is encrypted between this key fob device simulator and the backbone cloud site the smart phone or other devices only as plain interfaces . The vehicle key credential secrets are communicated and learned as previously described. The fob device simulator has stand alone functionality of at least being able to access a vehicle and optionally an internal timer which makes it useless after a while until it is learned again to the same or another vehicle . The timeout is handled by the universal key fob like number of authentications duration of use etc. and may be implemented by simple countdown timer cooperating with software . The software will delete the vehicle s unique key credentials when the timer expires. Secrets are also erased when tampering attempts for example if the clock stopped or reset Here the end user carries a personalized key fob and uses it for different vehicles use case car sharing the user always carries his personal fob with him . The universal fob owned and carried by a car sharing user and optionally used for user identification. The backend server can store individually the individual key credentials for each vehicle or at least the set of protocols to learn the individual key credentials for each vehicle. End to end encryption occurs between the universal fob and the server for learning and for normal access use . In a further embodiment several virtual Keys are generated per vehicle at the same time in order to allow more users make simultaneous operation of the vehicle. In another configuration the Key is given limited rights for example only vehicle access only access door but no trunk only trunk access etc.

Again Vehicles possess specific proprietary protocols and interfaces for unlocking opening and starting up and vehicles also have a limited number of registered key IDs usually two delivered with the vehicle and also only a limited number of slots in the memory to register additional learned valid key IDs usually the max. number of all valid key IDS is 8 . This may be a problem with a growing number of users such as at e.g. in corporate vehicle fleets rental car fleets or in the car sharing application services.

See for an example use case. Instead of an additional electronics circuit which is connected electrically in the vehicle there remains a special key simulator installed in the vehicle which is taught to the vehicle but can only be activated by communication with the backend server. A key fob is learned to the car including immobilizer key credential secrets once but this special key fob simulator device is connected to the backbone the smart phone or other devices only as plain interfaces which can enable it for a while. The backbone cloud site does not get the vehicle access secrets these remain with the key fob simulator device. This Key can only be used when the upper Bluetooth interface contained in it is unlocked. The activation takes the cellular connection of the smartphone to a downstream server. For this the Key has an additional secret that is only known to the installed special key and the downstream server. As authentication some example methods include use of a Challenge Response procedure where the Key sends the Challenge and the server responds. This authentication also requires a previous or parallel user authentication in order to have ensured that access to the vehicle is preserved only the correct user. The user may authenticate by means of its smart phone to the server. The user has a special app enabled giving it a pin for A Bluetooth connection. With a second device e.g. smart phone the car user can connect to the backbone cloud site and collect the information for enabling the device. With this the user can remotely transmit open and close messages thru the key fob simulator device and enable the immobilization circuits in the vehicle to allow the vehicle to start and move. Here the end user connects to the backbone with his e.g. smart phone device and gets a temporarily permit to use the special key fob simulator which remains the whole life inside the car use case remote car rental and for car sharing . End to end encryption occurs between the universal fob and the server for learning and for normal access use .

Use Case a PASE vehicle The new user pulls the door handle. The vehicle starts a PASE query. This arouses the software on the special key fob simulator. The key answers the PASE question potentially in the negative and enables its Bluetooth interface.

The key has to be Bluetooth Interface in Advertising Mode. The new user now connects his smartphone via Bluetooth with the special key. For this the device uses the backend server to provide an appropriate Pin number. After coupling the authentication of the server is performed with the special key. To perform this successfully as the Key is unlocked and the vehicle will automatically send a corresponding command to unlock via the smartphone. This release is always through an opening command. The special key awaits transfer of the pin number. The server transfers the user s device the pin. An activation of the special key occurs. A Bluetooth connection to the phone is established and then communication via a cellular connection to the server occurs. After a successful acknowledgment by the server then the Bluetooth pairing is canceled for Smartphone and the key returns back into hibernation. The key is programmed to understand and perform the vehicle specific radio and transponder protocol.

In this scenario the RF signal transmitter is integrated into a handheld smartphone. Such a device may then be used for any of the above use cases.

The cloud based remote access to a vehicle service can be implemented in software hardware electronics and any combination of both and when one or more portions of the system are implemented in software then that software is tangibly stored in an executable format on the one or more non transitory storage mediums to be executed by a processing component.

Additional hardware may be installed in the target vehicle to assist in the remote access to a vehicle process. A dongle may be a small piece of hardware that attaches to the vehicle in order to enable additional functions.

i Registration and purchase There are multiple time periods and methods a customer can select to register with the remote access to the vehicle service. Upon registering a first database in the one or more databases may be also configured to contain and index information regarding for each user including User ID and password for the remote access to a vehicle service User name email etc. security questions vehicle VIN vehicle model color and year and other similar information. An application on the handheld computer device that is used by a user of the remote access to the vehicle service can be downloaded from a website associated with the remote access to the vehicle service.

1 When purchasing a new car at the dealership with a telematics system built into the vehicle the following steps are performed i the customer is offered to sign up for the remote access to a vehicle service ii the customer signs up for the Box2Go service application in the cloud based remote access to a vehicle service using a paper form and the customer downloads the Box2Go mobile app into their client device iii the customer logs in to the Box2Go mobile app at least once to activate the Box2Go service application in the cloud based remote access to a vehicle service and other similar ways to register to become a user.

Communication can be exchanged between the access control system and a learning device to extract required data of access control system . The communications exchange between the pre installed access control system in vehicle and the learning device can be performed once to extract any required data for the access control system. The required data for the access control system include a particular authentication code of the vehicle . The pre installed access control system in vehicle can have one or more receiving devices and a controller that manages key credentials.

The vehicle can be registered with the backend cloud based system by storing a vehicle matching data of the vehicle . The registration of the vehicle with the backend cloud based system can be performed by sending a set of vehicle matching data to the backend cloud based system and then storing the vehicle matching data in a database associated with the backend cloud based system . The stored vehicle matching data can be used by a first routine that can run on the processors of the servers of the backend cloud based system to obtain and send a first access control telegram message of the vehicle to the learning device. In an example the vehicle matching data can include Make and Model of the vehicle and can be used to obtain an access control telegram message based on Make and Model of the vehicle. Additionally the vehicle matching data may include a Vehicle Identification Number VIN and VIN may be used for obtaining an access control telegram message. In another example the vehicle matching data may include a user ID and a database of the backend cloud based system may include a list of registered users and their associated vehicles including Make and Model and or VIN. The access control telegram message can be obtained through retrieving Make and Model and or VIN of the user s vehicle via the user ID.

The learning device can be registered to a memory in the access control system according to procedures of the vehicle when adding remote entry keys . The registration of the learning device to memory of the access control system can facilitate a key like simulator and can be performed as an additional remote entry key of the pre installed access control system of the vehicle . The learning device can be coupled to a Radio Frequency signal transmitter . The RF signal transmitter can be used for transmitting RF signals to a Radio Frequency receiver associated with the access control system of a vehicle . The RF signal transmitter can have Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that can be to be highly configurable in generating multiple stable RF signals at multiple frequency wavelengths. The registration includes the following steps.

The learning device can receive a first access control telegram message and then send the first access control telegram message to a Radio Frequency transmitter . The learning device can receive from the backend cloud bases system a first access control telegram message associated with the vehicle matching data of the vehicle along with a first set of signaling parameters associated with the RF signal corresponding to a Radio Frequency receiver of the access control system of a vehicle . The first access control telegram message can include a sequence of identification and authorization steps to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle . The first access control telegram message can include the specific frequency wavelengths of the RF receiver of access control system and can be used to register the additional remote entry key in the access control system of the vehicle . The first access control telegram message is then sent to the RF signal transmitter .

The RF transmitter can transmit the first access control telegram message and then can pair the learning device with the access control system . The first access control telegram message including the sequence of identification and authorization steps can be transmitted by the RF signal transmitter to the pre installed access control system of the vehicle . The transmitted RF signals are characterized by the first set of signaling parameters that emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle including the specific frequency wavelengths and expected protocol exchanges for the access control system . Then the learning device can be paired with the pre installed access control system of the vehicle in accordance with the learning procedures implemented in the vehicle . The pairing can include registering an ID of the additional remote entry key with the memory in the pre installed access control system .

In an embodiment the vehicle matching data can include a Make and Model of the vehicle. The backend cloud based system can use the vehicle matching data to obtain an access control telegram message. In an example the vehicle matching data can include one or more of i a Make and Model of the vehicle associated with a user ii a user ID corresponding to the user associated with the vehicle and iii a Vehicle Identification Number VIN of the vehicle associated with the use. Also obtaining the access control telegram message can be based on one of the Make and Model of the vehicle the user ID corresponding to the user of the vehicle or the Vehicle Identification Number of the vehicle.

In an embodiment after pairing the learning device can transmit the additional remote entry key credentials corresponding to the learning device to the backend cloud based system. The key credentials corresponding to the learning device can be stored in a database associated with the backend cloud based system . In an example transmitting the additional remote entry key credentials can happen in a subsequent point of time after pairing. In an example the additional remote entry key credentials may include the vehicle matching data and ID of the additional remote entry key and a valid authentication key of the additional remote entry key.

In an embodiment after the pairing and in a subsequent point of time the RF signal transmitter can receive a second access control telegram message from the backend cloud based system . The second access control telegram message can include a second authentication key and a second set of signaling parameters and can have one or more actuation commands. The second access control telegram message can be obtained based on the additional remote entry key credentials of the learning device. The actuation commands can include unlocking doors opening windows opening trunks closing trunks turning engine on turning engine off opening and closing a sunroof or moon roof. In an example after paring the learning device is bypassed and the RF signal transmitter can directly receive communication from the backend cloud based system or the handheld computer device .

Additionally the RF signal transmitter can transmit the actuation commands and the second authentication key to the pre installed access control system of the vehicle . Also a controller of the access control system can grant access upon successful authentication of the second authentication key and then the actuation commands can be executed and cause a corresponding electro mechanical operation in the vehicle.

In an embodiment the RF signal transmitter can receive a third authentication key and a third access control telegram message based on a specific vehicle matching data for a specific vehicle from among access control telegram messages of vehicles with different Make and Model. The third authentication key and the third access control telegram message can be received either directly from the backend cloud based system to the RF signal transmitter . The third authentication key and third access control telegram message can be obtained by a first module that can execute on the one or more processors associated with the servers of the backend cloud based system . Alternatively the third authentication key and the third access control telegram message can be received directly from the handheld computer device to the RF signal transmitter . The third authentication key and third access control telegram message can be obtained by a second module that can execute an executable software package on one or more processors associated with the handheld computer device . The executable software package can be received by the handheld computer device from the backend cloud based system .

In an embodiment the RF transmitter can either be i located in the handheld computer device ii located as an attached device cooperating with the handheld computer device or iii located inside the vehicle. The RF signal transmitter can transmit an access control telegram message and an authentication key via an electromagnetic signal to the RF receiving circuit associated with the access control system originally installed in the vehicle . The electromagnetic signal can be characterized by a set of the signaling parameters according to the requirements of the RF receiving circuit .

In an embodiment the RF signal transmitter can be either included in the learning device or can be coupled to the learning device. The learning device can use either wired communication or wireless communication including Bluetooth Wi Fi and NFC to communicate with the RF signal transmitter .

In an embodiment a cloud based system for granting vehicle access can include one or more cloud based servers that can have of one or more processors. The servers can cooperate with one or more cloud based databases.

Also the cloud based system for granting vehicle access can include a set of different access control telegram messages in the one or more databases. The set of different access control telegram messages can include access control telegram messages corresponding to key fobs in the market such as a first key fob of a first vehicle from a first vehicle manufacture and a second key fob of a second vehicle from a second vehicle manufacture. The databases store a set of different key protocols for the current already existing protocols in the set of potential keys fob in the market. A different protocol exists between a first vehicle from a first vehicle manufacture and a second vehicle from a second vehicle manufacture and the databases store all of these protocols. The server is configured to select the appropriate protocol from the set of database based on referencing the data stored in the system for the vehicle associated for the user requesting to either to 1 learn the new key ID device and register that to new key ID device to a particular vehicle or 2 request remote access to open and or unlock the particular vehicle associated for the user.

Additionally the cloud based system for granting vehicle access can have a module that can execute on the processors of the cloud based servers. In response to receiving a vehicle matching data of a vehicle associated with a user the module can obtain an access control telegram message from the set of different access control telegram messages in the databases. Obtaining the access control telegram message can be based on referencing the vehicle matching data of the vehicle associated with the user with the access control telegram message. The referencing can be according to one of requested actions i to emulate registering procedures matching requirements of the vehicle to learn a new authentication key and to register that new authentication key to the vehicle associated with the user or ii to request remote access for example to open and or to unlock the vehicle associated with the user.

In an embodiment the communication between the learning device and the backend cloud based system can be through the handheld computer device . In an example the handheld computer device can be a smart phone. Also Wireless cellular communication can be used between the backend cloud based system and the handheld computer device and Bluetooth or Wi Fi communication can be used between the handheld computer device and the learning device .

In an embodiment a system can learn and then pair to a pre installed access control system including its particular authentication code for a particular vehicle. The vehicle s particulars can be learned and then paired by a remote backend server or by a handheld computer device smartphone by exchanging communications with the pre installed access control system in that vehicle.

In an embodiment a learning device can extract any required data for the access control system including its particular authentication code one time for the particular vehicle and then can register the particular vehicle in the backend cloud site. The vehicle can have receiving device s installed in the vehicle and a controller that manages key credentials. The registration process can include registering a key like learning device to a memory in the access control system in the vehicle in accordance to the procedures implemented in the vehicle when adding regular remote entry keys.

In an embodiment the learning device can communicate with or alternatively can include a handheld computer device smartphone and or remote backend server. The learning device can also communicate with a handheld RF signal transmitter that has one or more ASICs to be highly configurable in generating a set of two or more stable RF signals at different frequency wavelengths. The RF signal transmitter can be remotely controlled by the software commands that can be included in an access control telegram message issued from a backend server. The handheld RF signal transmitter may also have a LF transponder to communicate with an immobilization circuit in the vehicle.

In an embodiment the learning device can transmit a vehicle matching data to the handheld computer device smartphone and or the remote backend server. The vehicle matching data can be used to generate control messages and authentication code of the handheld computer device smartphone and or the remote backend server.

In an embodiment the handheld computer device smartphone and or remote backend cloud based server transmits signaling parameters and message flow to the learning device in order to emulate registering procedures matching the requirements of the vehicle. The parameters can include the specific frequency wavelengths of access control and specific frequency wavelengths for the immobilization systems of the vehicle.

In an embodiment a system to control access to a vehicle from a backend cloud based system can include a local client device. The client device can receive access control telegram messages from the server of the backend system. The client device can establish communication with the RF access control module in the vehicle. The vehicle can include a receiving device installed in the vehicle and a controller that grants access upon successful authentication. Also the remote backend server can generate access control telegram messages and then can send the access control telegram messages either directly or as an executable software package to a local handheld computer device such as a smartphone . In an example the backend server can cooperate with one or more databases to generate valid access control telegram messages for vehicles of different models as well as for vehicles from two or more different vehicle manufactures. The backend server can also calculation a key authentication code particular for that unique vehicle with one or more processors either i in the remote backend server when sent directly or ii in the handheld computer device smartphone when sent as an executable software package from the backend server to the handheld computer device. Then the handheld computer device can execute the software package to calculate the key authentication code.

Also the local client device of the system to control access to a vehicle from a backend cloud based system can transfer an access control telegram message and an authentication code together with signaling parameters to a handheld RF signal transmitter. The handheld RF signal transmitter can be located in the handheld computer device can be located as an attached device cooperating with the handheld computer device or can be located inside the vehicle. The handheld RF signal transmitter can transmit the access control telegram message and authentication code via an electromagnetic signal characterized by signaling parameters adapted for to the RF receiving circuit originally installed in the vehicle. The handheld RF signal transmitter has one or more ASICs to be highly configurable in generating a set of two or more stable RF signals at different frequency wavelengths. The handheld RF signal transmitter can be remotely controlled by the software commands in the access control telegram message issued from a backend server.

The user customer may pay an additional fee on a per vehicle access instance to use the remote access to a vehicle service. The user customer may pay a monthly or yearly subscription fee for all vehicle accesses. The user customer may pay on another usage case model. A revenue sharing agreement may be in place between the retailer the vehicle access service the service provider and the OEM provider. The service provider may subsidize the vehicle accesses to increase volume etc.

With reference to components of the computing system may include but are not limited to a processing unit having one or more processing cores a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA locale bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

Computing system typically includes a variety of computing machine readable media. Computing machine readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing system and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computing machine readable mediums uses include storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures other executable software or other data. Computer storage mediums include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . However carrier waves would not fall into a computer readable medium. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures other executable software or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computing system such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or software that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system other executable software and program data .

The computing system may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to USB drives and devices magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures other executable software and other data for the computing system . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system other executable software and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system other executable software and program data . Operating system other executable software and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. The microphone may cooperate with speech recognition software. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display monitor or other type of display screen device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computing devices may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and other output device which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers client devices such as a remote computing device . The remote computing device may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing system . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. A browser application may be resident on the computing device and stored in the memory.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment other software depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computing device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computing devices may be used.

As discussed the computing system may include a processor a memory a built in battery to power the computing device an AC power input potentially a built in video camera a display screen a built in Wi Fi circuitry to wirelessly communicate with a remote computing device connected to network.

It should be noted that the present design can be carried out on a computing system such as that described with respect to . However the present design can be carried out on a server a computing device devoted to message handling or on a distributed system in which different portions of the present design are carried out on different parts of the distributed computing system.

Another device that may be coupled to bus is a power supply such as a battery and Alternating Current adapter circuit. As discussed above the DC power supply may be a battery a fuel cell or similar DC power source that needs to be recharged on a periodic basis. The wireless communication module may employ a Wireless Application Protocol to establish a wireless communication channel. The wireless communication module may implement a wireless networking standard such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard IEEE std. 802.11 1999 published by IEEE in 1999.

Examples of mobile computing devices may be a laptop computer a cell phone a personal digital assistant or other similar device with on board processing power and wireless communications ability that is powered by a Direct Current DC power source that supplies DC voltage to the mobile device and that is solely within the mobile computing device and needs to be recharged on a periodic basis such as a fuel cell or a battery.

A vehicle has hardware and software that can take control of the vehicle for a short period including activating electromechanical mechanisms that are part of the vehicle. The vehicle has hardware and software for networking between the clouds as well as potentially between other vehicles to cause related automation within the vehicle based on communications between the vehicle and the cloud and or other vehicles. The vehicle s Cellular Interface system is configured to allow cellular phones access the automobile computer systems interpret the information and show the text on the cellular phones display while simultaneously transmitting the retrieved information as well as characteristic and states of the cellular phone used to access the vehicle computer system to a global network that would alert parties who could assist or benefit from the retrieved automobile information. A cellular phone with a software application can establish a connection with the vehicle s on board diagnostic computer and or other on board intelligent control systems.

The system can interface with a client device such as a mobile phone with the on board computing system in the vehicle. The on board diagnostic computing device may monitor a set of operational characteristics of a vehicle and communicate that diagnostic to both the driver and with the cloud. The information derived from this system can also be conveyed and processed on a mobile client device coupled with additional information and displayed on the mobile client device s display screen while simultaneously transmitting this information over the Internet to be stored in a database.

At the point of communication negotiation an application on the client device extracts position location from the vehicle s navigation system and transmits the response from the vehicle s navigation system and the location to a server ready to receive this information. Alternatively an application can extract similar position information from GPS module internal to the client device itself.

In an embodiment the standard for the automotive industry for vehicles may use is the SAE J1850 communications protocol which utilizes variable pulse width modulation and pulse width modulation. This means that the width of the pulse determines whether it is a 1 or a 0. Most phones form communication with serial connections RS 232 Infrared . . . etc. and wireless connection protocols Bluetooth NFC Infrared . . . etc. . These two protocols must be converted or bridged by some sort of microprocessor so the two communication methodologies can communicate with each other. This can be accomplished by using an integrated circuit that can be used to convert the OBD II signal which includes different protocols such as but not limited to J1850 VPW J1850 PWM ISO 9141 2 ISO 14230 ISO 15765 to one of the aforementioned phone communication formats.

A cloud provider service can install and operate application software in the cloud and users can access the software service from the client devices. Cloud users who have a site in the cloud may not solely manage the cloud infrastructure and platform where the application runs. Thus the servers and databases may be shared hardware where the user is given a certain amount of dedicate use of these resources. The user s cloud based site is given a virtual amount of dedicated space and bandwidth in the cloud. Cloud applications can be different from other applications in their scalability which can be achieved by cloning tasks onto multiple virtual machines at run time to meet changing work demand. Load balancers distribute the work over the set of virtual machines. This process is transparent to the cloud user who sees only a single access point.

The cloud based remote access to a vehicle service is coded to utilize a protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP to engage in a request and response cycle with both a mobile device application resident on a client device as well as a web browser application resident on the client device. The cloud based remote access to a vehicle service has one or more routines to automate a package delivery to and pick up from the vehicle process. The cloud based remote access to a vehicle service can be accessed by a mobile device a desktop a tablet device and other similar devices anytime anywhere. Thus the cloud based remote access to a vehicle service hosted on a cloud based provider site is coded to engage in 1 the request and response cycle from all web browser based applications 2 SMS twitter based request and response message exchanges 3 the request and response cycle from a dedicated on line server 4 the request and response cycle directly between a native mobile application resident on a client device and the cloud based remote access to a vehicle service and 5 combinations of these.

The cloud based remote access to a vehicle service has one or more application programming interfaces APIs with two or more of the package delivery entity sites such as FedEx UPS etc. as well as application programming interfaces with two or more of the OEM remote access connectivity systems such as telematics system sites such as OnStar Lexus Linksys Ford Sync Uconnect MBConnect BMWConnect etc. The remote access to a vehicle service may have additional APIs. The APIs may be a published standard for the connection to each OEM remote access connectivity system. The APIs may also be an open source API. One or more of the API s may be customized to closed non published APIs of a remote access connectivity site and or package delivery entity site. The cloud based remote access to a vehicle service is coded to establish a secure communication link between each package delivery entity site and the cloud provider site. The cloud based remote access to a vehicle service is coded to establish a secure communication link between each telematics system site and the cloud provider site. The software service is coded to establish the secure communication link by creating a tunnel at the socket layer and encrypting any data while in transit between each package delivery entity sites and the provider site as well as to satisfy any additional authentication mechanisms required by the direct lending institution including but not limited to IP address white listing and token based authentication.

In an embodiment the server computing system may include a server engine a web page management component a content management component and a database management component. The server engine performs basic processing and operating system level tasks. The web page management component handles creation and display or routing of web pages or screens associated with receiving and providing digital content and digital advertisements. Users may access the server computing device by means of a URL associated therewith. The content management component handles most of the functions in the embodiments described herein. The database management component includes storage and retrieval tasks with respect to the database queries to the database and storage of data.

An embodiment of a server computing system to display information such as a web page etc. is discussed. An application including any program modules when executed on the server computing system A causes the server computing system A to display windows and user interface screens on a portion of a media space such as a web page. A user via a browser from the client computing system A may interact with the web page and then supply input to the query fields and or service presented by a user interface of the application. The web page may be served by a web server computing system A on any Hypertext Markup Language HTML or Wireless Access Protocol WAP enabled client computing system A or any equivalent thereof. For example the client mobile computing system A may be a smart phone a touch pad a laptop a netbook etc. The client computing system A may host a browser to interact with the server computing system A. Each application has a code scripted to perform the functions that the software component is coded to carry out such as presenting fields and icons to take details of desired information. Algorithms routines and engines within the server computing system A take the information from the presenting fields and icons and put that information into an appropriate storage medium such as a database. A comparison wizard is scripted to refer to a database and make use of such data. The applications may be hosted on the server computing system A and served to the browser of the client computing system A. The applications then serve pages that allow entry of details and further pages that allow entry of more details.

The telematics system uses telecommunications vehicular technologies electrical sensors instrumentation and wireless communications modules to allow communication with between the cloud and a vehicle. The telematics system site sends receives and stores information via a telematics module to affect control on objects in the vehicle. Telematics includes but is not limited to Global Positioning System technology integrated with computers and mobile communications technology in automotive navigation systems. Telematics also includes cloud based interaction with an integrated hands free cell phone system in the vehicle wireless safety communication system in the vehicle and automatic driving assistance systems.

A wireless communication circuit exchanges communication between the mobile client device and the vehicle. The wireless communication circuit executes instructions with the processor via a bus system. The wireless communication circuit can be configured to communicate to RF radio frequency satellites cellular phones analog or digital Bluetooth V Wi Fi Infrared Zigby Local Area Networks LAN WLAN Wireless Local Area Network or other wireless communication configurations and standards. The wireless communication circuit allows the vehicle s intelligence systems such as the telematics module and other diagnostic tools to communicate with other devices wirelessly. The wireless communication circuit includes an antenna built therein and being housed within the housing or can be externally located on the housing.

The Telecommunications and Informatics applied in wireless technologies and computational systems may be based on 802.11p. The IEEE standard in the 802.11 family and also referred to as Wireless Access for the Vehicular Environment WAVE is the primary standard that addresses and enhances Intelligent Transportation System.

An example telematics module sends commands and exchanges information other electronic circuits electromechanical devices and electromagnetic devices in the vehicle. The telematics module may operate in conjunction with computer controlled devices and radio transceivers to provide precision repeatability functions such as in robotics artificial intelligence systems and emergency warning performance systems located in and exchanged between vehicles.

Additional intelligent vehicle technologies are car safety systems and self contained autonomous electromechanical sensors to generate warnings that can be transmitted within a specified targeted area of interest say within 100 meters of the emergency warning system for vehicles transceiver. In ground applications intelligent vehicle technologies are utilized for safety and commercial communications between vehicles or between a vehicle and a sensor along the road.

The wireless communication circuits in the vehicle or in a client device are configured to give access to the mobile Internet via a cellular telephone service provider. The mobile Internet is wireless access that handoffs the mobile client device or vehicle from one radio tower to another radio tower while the vehicle or device is moving across the service area. Also in some instances Wi Fi may be available for users on the move so that a wireless base station connects directly to an Internet service provider rather than through the telephone system.

In regards of viewing ability of an on line site the scripted code for the on line site such as a website social media site etc. is configured to adapted to be i viewed on tablets and mobile phones such as individual downloadable applications in data stores that are designed to interface with the on line site ii viewable on a screen in the vehicle as well as iii viewable on a screen of a desktop computer via a browser. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the invention can be practiced with other computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices wearable computers cellular or mobile phones multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics set top boxes network PCs mini computers mainframe computers and the like.

Mobile web applications and native applications can be downloaded from a cloud based site. The mobile web applications and native applications have direct access to the hardware of mobile devices including accelerometers and GPS chips and the speed and abilities of browser based applications. Information about the mobile phone and the vehicle s location is gathered by software housed on the phone.

One or more scripted routines for the cloud based remote access to a vehicle service are configured to collect and provide features such as those described herein.

Any application and other scripted code components may be stored on a non transitory computing machine readable medium which when executed on the server causes the server to perform those functions. The applications including program modules may be implemented as logical sequences of software code hardware logic circuits and any combination of the two and portions of the application scripted in software code are stored in a non transitory computing device readable medium in an executable format. In an embodiment the hardware logic consists of electronic circuits that follow the rules of Boolean Logic software that contain patterns of instructions or any combination of both.

The design is also described in the general context of computing device executable instructions such as applications etc. being executed by a computing device. Generally programs include routines objects widgets plug ins and other similar structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Those skilled in the art can implement the description and or figures herein as computer executable instructions which can be embodied on any form of computing machine readable media discussed herein.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions herein are presented in terms of algorithms routines and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm routine is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. These algorithms routine of the application including the program modules may be written in a number of different software programming languages such as C C Java HTML or other similar languages.

Many online pages on a server such as web pages are written using the same language Hypertext Markup Language HTML which is passed around using a common protocol HTTP. HTTP is the common Internet language dialect or specification . Through the use of a web browser a special piece of software that interprets HTTP and renders HTML into a human readable form web pages authored in HTML on any type of computer can be read anywhere including telephones PDAs and even popular games consoles. Because of HTTP a client machine like your computer knows that it has to be the one to initiate a request for a web page it sends this request to a server. A server may be a computing device where web sites reside when you type a web address into your browser a server receives your request finds the web page you want and sends it back to your desktop or mobile computing device to be displayed in your web browser. The client device and server may bilaterally communicate via a HTTP request response cycle between the two.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussions it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Although embodiments of this design have been fully described with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be noted that various changes and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications are to be understood as being included within the scope of embodiments of this design as defined by the appended claims. The invention is to be understood as not limited by the specific embodiments described herein but only by scope of the appended claims.

