---

title: User tracking based on client-side browse history
abstract: Techniques for associating a user with a user characteristic may be described. In particular, a network-based document may be provided to a computing system of the user. The network-based document may include least an identifier of another network-based document and code. The code may be configured to, upon execution, determine whether the other network-based document was accessed prior to providing the network-based document. An indication of whether the other network-based document was accessed may be determined. For example, the indication may be received from the computing system based on an execution of the code at the computing system. The user may be associated with the user characteristic based on the indication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646104&OS=09646104&RS=09646104
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09646104
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150623
---
This application is related to and incorporates by reference for all purposes the full disclosure of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 747 901 filed Jun. 23 2014 entitled TARGETING CONTENT BASED ON USER CHARACTERISTICS co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 747 919 filed Jun. 23 2015 entitled USER AUTHENTICATION USING CLIENT SIDE BROWSE HISTORY and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 747 939 filed Jun. 23 2015 entitled DETECTING A NETWORK CRAWLER .

Users may operate computing devices to access various resources and services provided over a network. For example a user may access a web site and browse various pages of a service provider.

The service provider may provide additional services to improve the user s experience. For example the browsed web pages may be customized. In another example a login web page may be set up to authenticate the user and allow user access to specific functions. In a further example a web crawler may crawl the web site and access information. The service provider may limit the crawling to certain portions of the web site by using for instance a robots exclusion protocol. As such different services may be configured and provided based on the user. However if the user may not have been properly identified some of the services may be inaccessible.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things providing a network based service. In particular a service provider may maintain a network based resource e.g. a web site that may include a plurality of network based documents e.g. web pages . The service provider may also implement a tracking service associated with the network based resource. The tracking service may be configured to de anonymize a user of a computing device e.g. a client device accessing the network based resource and accordingly provide a network based service. For example the tracking service may be configured to analyze user actions identify a user characteristic and provide one or more network based services based on the user characteristic. In turn the user may operate an application on the computing device to request a network based document over a network. Network based documents previously accessed by the user e.g. by the computing device may be determined from storage associated with the application. This determination may involve for example the tracking service inserting identifiers of the network based documents and code in the requested network based document. The code may be configured to upon execution at the computing device e.g. by the application access the storage and determine whether the network based documents may have already been visited based on the identifiers. As such upon providing the network based document to the computing device and upon an access thereto by the application the code may be executed. In turn the tracking service may receive an indication about the previous accesses. Based on the indication the tracking service may associate the user with a user characteristic. The user characteristic may represent a potential characteristic of the user based on the previous accesses. Further the tracking service may provide a network based service to the computing device based on the user characteristic. For example targeted content may be provided. In another example the user may be authenticated. In yet another example the application may be detected as being a network crawler.

To illustrate consider an example of a web site associated with an electronic marketplace. The electronic marketplace may be configured to offer different items. Upon a request from a computing device of a user for information about an item a tracking service of the electronic marketplace may insert in a web page describing the item a universal resource locator URL of another web page and a particular JavaScript. The other web page may be associated with metadata describing a potential user characteristic. A browser of the computing device may render the web page. When the web page is rendered the URL may not be visible to the user. Further the rendering may cause the JavaScript to execute. The executed JavaScript may access the browser s history and determine whether the URL may be in the history a state of the URL e.g. a visited state or a style attribute of the URL e.g. underlined and purple . Accordingly the JavaScript may generate an indication of whether the other web page may have been accessed prior to receiving the web page describing the item. The tracking service may receive the indication. Based on this indication and the metadata the tracking service may associate the user with the user characteristic. Further the tracking service may cause a particular action to be initiated based on the associated user characteristic. For example if the user characteristic indicates that the user may be a shopper having a particular behavior an advertisement affined to that behavior may be inserted in a widget of the web page. In another example if the user characteristic indicates an authenticated user identifier the user may be authenticated. In yet another example if the user characteristic indicates a characteristic of a web crawler the user may be detected as being the web crawler.

The various embodiments may be described in association with providing computing services to a user such as associating the user with a user characteristic classifying the user providing targeted content to the user authenticating the user determining whether the user is associated with a web crawler and other computing services. Providing such computing services may include providing the computing services to a computing device of the user a user account of the user or other hardware software and or electronic entities associated with the user.

In the interest of the clarity of explanation the various embodiments may be described using example web sites web pages universal resource locators JavaScript and browsers. However the embodiments are not limited as such. Instead the embodiments may similarly apply to any network based resource network based document identifiers codes and applications. In particular a network based resource may represent a resource hosted on one or more computing nodes and available for access over a network. Generally a network based resource may be configured to provide a service over the network. For example the network based resource may include a collection of network based documents. A network based document may represent an electronic document that may be available for access over a network. Generally the electronic document may include information. The electronic document may or may not be a structured document. An identifier may facilitate identifying one or more network based documents. For example the identifier may include a network address of the network based document s or a link to the network based document s over a network. When an identifier is inserted in a structured document to identify an address of another network based document the identifier may be added to the electronic document as an object or some other element of the structure of the document. Generally the identifier may have various states e.g. visited activated hovered over and various attributes e.g. a style attribute defining a color . An attribute value e.g. a specific color may depend on a state e.g. a visited state . A code may represent code such as a script configured to perform certain actions. The script may include statements of a programmatic scripting language in accordance with an ECMAScript standard such as a JavaScript JScript and ActionScript. For example the code may be configured to track user actions to analyze tracked actions to access storage associated with an application or any other programmable actions. An application may represent a program that may be hosted and executed on a computing device to perform certain functions. An example function may include accessing or rendering network based documents. Storage associated with the application or more generally with the computing device may store information about the performed functions such as information about identifiers of the accessed and or rendered network based documents.

Further a user may represent a human being or may represent a machine or a process. For example a user may include a shopper operating a computing device to surf and purchase items from a web site. In another example the user may include a computing device accessing the web site or a web crawler hosted on the computing device and accessing the web site.

A web page or more generally a network based document may include information. That information on its own may represent an item. Additionally or alternatively the information may be about an item. This item may be tangible e.g. a physical product or a digital product offered from an electronic marketplace or intangible e.g. a service .

Turning to an example environment for providing a network based service is illustrated. The network based service may include providing any or a combination of targeted content user authentication or web crawler detection.

In particular a user may operate a computing device e.g. a client device or a computing system of a client to access one or more servers or other types of computing resources over a network. The servers may host one or more web sites of one or more service providers. Each web site may include a collection of web pages. A web page may provide information or describe an item.

The computing device may host a browser or another application that may access one or more web pages provided from the servers . In an example the browser may but need not render an accessed web page. Each of the web pages may be associated with a URL. A history of the browser may store URLs of accessed web pages. For example the history may store the URLs of the web pages with state and or attribute information. State information may describe a state associated with a URL such as whether the URL was accessed visited or other states. Attribute information may describe an attribute associated with a URL. An attribute may include a style attribute. For example the attribute may include a purple color or any other color and an underline style or any other style effect to indicate a visited URL. The history may be stored at local storage of the computing device .

At some point after accessing the web pages the computing device may connect to the server or another type of computing resource over a same or a different network. The server may host a web site. In an example the web site may be associated with one of the one or more service providers. In this example the web site may be one of the web sites providing the web pages and or the server may be one of the servers . In another example the web site may be associated with a different service provider. A request for a web page from the web site hosted on the server may be received. Accordingly the web page may be provided to the computing device for for example rendering by the browser.

In an example the server may also host a tracking service . The tracking service may represent a computing service configured to de anonymize the user of the computing device . For example the tracking service may be configured to track and analyze user actions classify the user actions based on the analysis and perform various actions based on the classification. In particular the tracking service may classify in connection with providing the web page the user of the computing device . The classification may be based on the visited web pages . Once the user is classified the tracking service may enable customizing the web page customizing another web page provided to the computing device from the server and or perform another action as further described herein.

In an example the tracking service may include various modules to provide the above functionalities. In particular the tracking service may include a classifier a data collector and an action manager . Generally the classifier may be configured to facilitate classifying the user based on associating the user or an identifier of the user with a user characteristic. For example the classifier may maintain a collection of URLs of interest and respective metadata. The collection may organize the URLs in a list. Metadata of a URL may describe a potential user characteristic of users having accessed or accessing a web page corresponding to the URL. An example of the classifier is further illustrated in . Classifying the user may involve adding the user or the identifier thereof to a group of users having that user characteristic.

The data collector may be configured to enable the tracking service to collect data about user actions such as what web pages may have been previously visited e.g. the web pages . The collected data may be analyzed in light of the classifier to classify the user. Various techniques may be implemented by the data collector to collect the data. In one example technique URLs of interest e.g. ones maintained by the classifiers may be inserted in the web page along with a JavaScript or any other statements of a suitable scripting language . The JavaScript may be configured to upon execution access the browser s history from the local storage of the computing device determine whether web pages corresponding to the URLs of interest may have been accessed and generate an indication accordingly. further illustrates this technique. In another technique information from the history may be provided to the tracking service by an application of the operating system of the computing device over a predefine communication channel. further illustrates this technique.

The action manager may be configured to allow the tracking service to perform e.g. initiate initiate and perform or cause performance of certain actions based on the classification of the user. For example each user characteristic e.g. as defined in the classifier may be associated with one or more actions. The associations may be maintained by the action manager and or the classifier . As such based on classifying the user as having a particular user characteristic the tracking service may perform the associated action s .

An example action may include customizing the web page or another web page provided from the server . The customization may reflect the associated user characteristic. For example the customizing may include providing targeted content e.g. advertisement based on the user characteristic. The targeted content may be inserted in a widget banner or other presentation spaces of the provided web page from the server . further illustrate example processes that may be implemented to perform such actions.

Another example action may include authenticating the user. In particular the user may be associated with an identifier e.g. a user ID . That identifier may be used in connection with accessing the web page . Based on the classification of the user the tracking service may validate the identifier thereby authenticating the user or providing another layer of authentication . further illustrates an example process that may be implemented to perform such actions.

Yet another example action may include detecting whether the user may be a web crawler. The web crawler may represent a network crawler network bot Internet bot or a botnet. In other words the web may be configured to access and browse web pages for various purposes legal and or malicious including for example scraping content indexing or other purposes. Based on the classification of the user e.g. indicating that the user may have previously accessed a web page that only a web crawler would have accessed the tracking service may detect that the user may be the web crawler. Accordingly the tracking service may enable alleviating network traffic associated with providing information to the computing device hosting the web crawler . For instance text but not image data may be provided or the data may be sent from a proxy server or via a particular application programming interface API . further illustrates an example process that may be implemented to perform such actions.

In one embodiment the tracking service may be hosted on the computing device . For example the browser or any other application may add the tracking service as an extension. In this embodiment the computing device may locally classify the user and perform an action. As such even when the computing device is offline or not connected to the server various actions may nonetheless be performed. From time to time an update to the tracking service may be received from the server . The update may change any of the components of the tracking service including the classifier the data collector and or the action manager . In another embodiment the tracking service may be distributed between the computing device the server other servers and or other computing nodes and resources. For example instances of the tracking service may be hosted on both the computing device and the server . In another example the classifier and the data collector may be hosted on the computing device while the action manager may be hosted on the server .

Hence by implementing a tracking service such as the tracking service a service provider of a web site may determine whether a user accessing a web page of the web site may have previously accessed other web pages of the same web site or of other web sites. Based on the previous accesses the user may be classified as having a particular user characteristic. In turn a particular action may be performed over a network according to the user characteristic.

A classifier similar to the classifier may facilitate classifying a user by associating the user with a user characteristic. illustrates an example of the classifier. As illustrated a classifier may maintain a collection of information e.g. a list that may identify one or more web sites . The web sites may include web sites of interest to a service provider. For example a web site of interest may be that of another service provider such as a web site offering similar information or describing similar items as the web site of the service provider. In another example a web site of interest may be the web site of the of the service provider. The web sites may be identified using different techniques including for example a domain name a URL of a particular web page e.g. a home page or an Internet protocol IP address.

For each of the web sites the classifier may also maintain a collection of information e.g. a list that may identify web pages . The web pages may include web pages of interest to the service provider. That interest may vary based on the web page s service provider or web site and a desired action to be performed. For example a web page of interest may represent a web page of another service provider providing information or describing an item that may also be available from a web page of the service provider. In another example a web page of interest may represent a particular web page of the service provider such as a login page for authentication a user or a web page typically inaccessible to a web crawler. The web pages may be identified using different techniques including for example respective URLs.

Further the classifier may organize the web pages of interest per category . Each category may represent a particular interest of the service provider. For example one category may represent web pages of other service providers while another category may represent web pages of the service provider. Within each category there may be a number of sub categories. For example one sub category may represent web pages describing items belonging to a particular item category e.g. web pages about digital single lens reflex DSLR cameras . Another sub category may represent web pages describing a particular item e.g. web pages about a specific DSLR camera model . The hierarchy of categories may be repeated at several levels. The lower the level the more particular the service provider s interest may be.

The classifier may also maintain associations between the URLs or the web pages and metadata. Metadata associated with a URL may describe one or more potential user characteristics of a user that may have used the URL e.g. operated a computing device to access the respective web page . For example the classifier may identify a URL for each web page. In turn the classifier may maintain metadata that may describe one or more user characteristics and one or more respective likelihoods for each URL. A likelihood may represent the probability of a user having the corresponding user characteristic if the URL associated with the metadata is used.

The user characteristic and the likelihood and more generally the metadata may be determined from historical data. The historical data may include clickstreams of users. The clickstreams may be based on user accesses to the web site of the service provider or to web sites of other service providers. In particular the clickstreams used to generate the metadata for the URL may include clickstreams associated with using the URL accessing the respective web page and performing various traceable user actions thereat. In another example the clickstreams may be associated with using a different URL and a different web page . In this example the clickstreams related to the different URL may be used to generate the metadata associated with the URL based on a rule. The rule may apply a similarity. In particular the two web pages may be similar for the clickstreams to be usable. Similarity may be based on providing the same or similar e.g. having overlapping or equivalent information or describing the same or similar having common or equivalent features item s . For example the two web pages may describe the same item but may be associated with different web sites.

Hence a classifier such as the classifier may be configured to maintain a collection of URLs of interest and associated metadata. The URLs may identify web pages and or web sites of interest. The metadata may describe user characteristics and likelihoods of users having these characteristics based on accesses to the web pages and or web sites of interest.

The classifier may be used to classify the user as having one or more user characteristics. This classification may consider a history of accesses to web pages such as the web pages that the user may have visited. This history may be collected by a data collector such as the data collector . In particular the data collector may implement various techniques to collect the data. illustrates one example technique. This technique may insert URLs of interest in a web page and a JavaScript executable when the web page is rendered at a computing device to access a browser s history of the computing device and determine if the URLs of interest have been previously used. In comparison illustrates another example technique where the history may be received without the need to use the JavaScript. The example techniques of may be used separately or in conjunction.

Turning to the details of an example web page may be configured to facilitate a determination of whether a browser s history of a computing device may include accessed or visited web pages of interest. The web page may be associated with a web site of a service provider. Further the web page may be provided to the browser from a server in response to a request for the web page .

The web page may include a set of objects written using certain language such as HTML XML or another language. The objects may be organized in a document object model DOM . An object may represent an element or a component of the web page and may include information. When the browser renders the web page the object may be rendered or cause certain actions to be performed. As such the objects may include headers tags elements and or different markup language objects.

In an example the objects may include content . The content may describe an item or provide information and may include text images multimedia or other information. The objects may also include URLs . The URLs may represent URLs of interest and may correspond to web pages of interest. These URLs may be selected from a collection of URLs maintained by a classifier. The objects may also include a JavaScript or any other script or object configured to cause the computing device or the browser to perform certain actions when rendering the web page . These actions may include accessing the browser s history determining whether the history may include the URLs of interest a state and or a style attribute of an included URL of interest generating an indication of this determination and or opening a socket to transmit the indication to a server e.g. one hosting a tracking service such as the tracking service . In an example an indication may include a portion of the history such as the found URLs of interest and the associated states and or style attributes. In another example an indication may include a description that a URL of interest may have been found.

When the web page is rendered the URLs may not be visible to a user. For example the URLs may be included in tags of elements configured not to be rendered. In another example the URLs may be rendered as a small component e.g. a one by one pixel and or may be rendered in an out of display portion of the rendered web page e.g. in an invisible frame . This may help against biasing the user to the visit the corresponding web pages by presenting the URLs to the user. Similarly executing the JavaScript and or resulting actions may also be transparent to the user. For example the execution may run in the background.

As such when the computing device e.g. the browser accesses the web page the computing device may also use execute or run the JavaScript in conjunction with the URLs of interest to generate and provide the indication to the server. In other words by configuring the web page to include the URLs and a JavaScript the service provider may turn computing devices of users accessing the web page or various web pages of the service provider s web site effectively into sensors that may collect information about a history of accesses to web pages of interest.

The above technique may collect the history of accessed or visited web pages of interest based on inserting URLs of interest and a JavaScript in a web page. Other techniques for collecting this data may also be used. In particular illustrates collecting the data from the browser s history without the need to use the JavaScript.

As illustrated in an example computing device may be configured to provide a history of accessed web pages or an indication of such accesses to a server of a service provider e.g. one hosting a tracking service such as the tracking service . In an example the data collection may be enabled only if the service provider has permission to access the data.

The permission may be provided by a user e.g. an owner an administrator of the computing device . Additionally or alternatively the service provider may also be a provider of the computing device and may have a certain permitted degree of control over the computing device. In such a case the computing device and the server may be connected over an out of band channel. The out of band channel may represent a network path to a privately accessible resource of the service provider. This resource may represent a control plane that may include for example a platform for providing control and other functions from the server to the computing device . As such the out of band channel may allow the service provider to control and provide certain functions of the computing device such as to download software updates remote access and other functions. Because of this control the out of band channel may be available to transmit data about the history of web page accesses.

In particular the computing device may execute an application configured to perform various actions including for example collecting the history and or generating the indication based on local storage of the computing device e.g. the history of a browser and or other application . The application may interface or integrate with the browser and or the other application. In an example the application may include the browser a browser plug in or an application independent of the browser. For instance the application may be included in an operation system of the computing device . Further the application may be triggered to perform one or more of the actions. These actions may include accessing the local storage of the computing device accessing domain name service DNS records accessing browser s history determining whether the history and or records may include URLs of interest a state and or a style attribute of an included URL of interest generating an indication of the determination and or transmitting the indication to the server. The transmission may use the out of band channel.

Additionally the application may run in the background and may at time intervals perform the one or more actions. The application may be available on the computing device at a time prior to a user obtaining the computing device or may be installed on the computing device after such a time from a data store of the service provider. The service provider may further push updates and other information to the application from time to time over for example the out of band channel.

As such by configuring the computing device to include the application a service provider may turn the computing device effectively into a sensor to collect information associated with accesses to web pages. The collected information may be used to provide various services.

Turning to the figures illustrate example flows for providing different web services or more generally network based services based on a detected history of accesses to web pages or more generally network based documents . In particular illustrates an example flow for providing the web services. In comparison illustrates maintaining a classifier that may be used as a part of providing a web service. illustrates providing a web service based on a user characteristic. illustrates providing targeted content as a web service. illustrates authenticating a user as a web service. illustrates detecting a web crawler as a web service. Some operations across the example flows may be similar. Such similarities are not repeated herein in the interest of clarity of explanation.

In the illustrative operations some of the operations or functions may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by components modules and or services executed by one or more processors. For example a tracking service such as the tracking service hosted on a computing resource may be configured to perform some or all of the operations. The tracking service may be implemented on behalf of a service provider of a web site. Nevertheless other computing resources and services either alone or in combination may be additionally or alternatively used. Also while the operations are illustrated in a particular order it should be understood that no particular order is necessary and that one or more operations may be omitted skipped and or reordered.

In the interest of clarity of explanation the example flows of illustrate determining if a history of access to web pages may include an access to a particular web page of interest. Nevertheless the embodiments described herein are not limited as such. Instead the embodiments may similarly apply to a higher number of web pages of interest. In addition some of the operations of the example flows of may include inserting a single URL in a web page and executing a JavaScript. Nevertheless the embodiments described herein are not limited as such. Instead the embodiments may similarly apply to inserting a plurality of URLs before in conjunction with or after executing the JavaScript. Further the insertion and execution may be performed dependently of each other independently of each other separately from each other and or by different components or services.

Turning to the example flow may start at operation where a classifier may be maintained. For example the tracking service may store a collection e.g. a list of URLs of interest and associated metadata. From time to time or continuously the tracking service may update the collection to include additional URLs delete existing URLs or update the metadata. An example flow for maintaining the classifier is further illustrated in .

At operation user data may be collected. For example the tracking service may collect data describing a history of access of a user or the user s computing device to web pages. The data may include one or more indications of the access or may include the history itself. The web pages may be web pages of interest corresponding to some or all of the URLs of interest maintained at the classifier. Some of the web pages may have been previously visited. In an example a web page may have been previously visited based on an interest of the user e.g. the user operating the computing device to access the web page . In another example a web page may have been previously visited without an explicit knowledge of the user. For instance in response to a previous request for a different the web page may have been also provided to the computing device. The computing device s browser may have rendered this web page in an invisible frame. In this example the web page may represent a web page unique to the user and usable to authenticate the user.

Various techniques may be used to collect the data. In a first technique the tracking service may insert a number of URLs of interest and a JavaScript in a requested web page from the computing device as illustrated in . In a second technique the tracking service may receive the data from an application of the computing device as illustrated in . In the interest of explanation illustrate example flows that may implement the first technique. However the second technique may be similarly implemented separately or in conjunction with the first technique. In particular once the data is collected the tracking service may similarly classify the user based on the classifier and perform certain actions based on the classification regardless of which technique may have been implemented to collect the data.

At operation the user may be classified based on the collected data. For example the tracking service may determine whether a particular web page of interest may have been previously accessed based on the collected data. The tracking service may access metadata associated with a URL of that web page from the classifier. The Metadata may indicate a user characteristic based on the previous access. Accordingly the tracking service may classify the user based on the user characteristic.

At operation an action may be performed based on the classification. Performing the action may include initiate initiate and perform or cause performance of the action. For example user characteristics maintained by the classifier may be associated with actions. One set of actions may include providing targeted content. Another set of actions may include authenticating the user. Yet another set of actions may include detecting whether the user may be a web crawler. The tracking service may accordingly perform one of the actions corresponding to the user characteristic applicable to the user as determined at operation . To illustrate if the user characteristic indicates that the user may be a shopper having a particular behavior an advertisement affined to that behavior may be provided. In another example if the user characteristic indicates an authenticated user the user may be authenticated. In yet another example if the user characteristic indicates a characteristic of a web crawler the user may be detected as being the web crawler.

The tracking service may use data maintained by a classifier to collect certain data and to perform certain actions. illustrates an example flow for maintaining the classifier. In particular the example flow may start at operation where a web site may be selected. The web site may represent a web site of interest. That interest may vary based on the action to be performed. For example to provide targeted content the web site of interest may be that of another service provider e.g. of a competitor offering similar items available from the service provider s web site . To authenticate a user or detect a web crawler the web site of interest may be that of the service provider.

At operation a web page may be selected. The web page may represent a web page of interest. Similar to operation the interest may vary based on the action to be performed. For example to provide targeted content the web page of interest may be that of a particular item or a particular item category. The targeted content may be associated with that item or item category. For instance the targeted content may be an advertisement about the item. In another example to authenticate a user the web page of interest may be a web page configured to validate an identifier of the user. For example this web page may be one that may be unique to the user or that may be accessible to the user only after authentication e.g. after logging in through a login web page . In yet another example to detect a web crawler the web page of interest may be a web page configured to be likely accessed only by the web crawler or likely accessed by non web crawlers . Thus if such a web page is accessed or not the web crawler may be detected. Examples of the different web pages of interest are further illustrated in .

At operation a URL of the web page of interest may be associated with metadata. The metadata may describe a user characteristic and a likelihood of a user having accessed the web page to exhibit such a user characteristic. For example if the web page of interest is selected to authenticate the user or detect the web crawler the user characteristic may be of an authenticated user or a web crawler respectively. On the other hand if the web page of interest is selected to provide targeted content the user characteristic may describe a characteristic of the user such as a trait an interest gender age occupation hobby or other characteristics.

In an example the various user characteristics and likelihoods may be determined from historical data associated with accesses to the web page of interest or to a similar web page e.g. a web page of the service provider describing the same item that the web page of interest may describe . Machine learning algorithms pattern recognition techniques and or regression models may be applied to the historical data to derive the user characteristics and the likelihoods. A user characteristic may be set as characteristic observed from the historical data at a frequency that may exceed a threshold. The likelihood of the user characteristic may be a function of the frequency. In another example the historical data may be associated with an item described in the web page of interest. In turn the item may be associated with a user characteristic. To illustrate if the web page describes a camera of certain complex and advanced features the associated user characteristic may be that of a professional photographer.

At operation the URL of the web page of interest may be stored in a list of URLs. These URLs may correspond to other web pages of interest for which metadata may have been similarly derived as described at operation . The URL may also be stored in connection with the respective metadata. For example the metadata itself may include the URL.

The tracking service may update the classifier from time to time or continuously by for example analyzing additional historical data adding new URLs removing other URLs and or updating the metadata. The tracking service may also use the classifier to classify a user and accordingly perform an action. illustrates an example flow for classifying a user and performing an action. In the interest of the clarity of explanation the illustrated action includes providing targeted content. However the example flow may be implemented similarly to perform any or a combination of other actions such as authenticating the user or detecting a web crawler as further illustrated in .

The example flow of may start at operation where a request for information may be received. For example the user may operate a computing device to use a browser and request the web page from the web site of the service provider. The web site may be hosted on a server. The computing device s access to the web site may occur via a computing session with the server. The computing session may be associated with an identifier e.g. a session ID . Additionally or alternatively the user may be associated with an identifier e.g. a user ID . The session ID and or the user ID may be used for various reasons as further illustrated in the next operations.

At operation a URL of another web page and a JavaScript may be inserted in the web page. For example the tracking service may select a URL of interest from a list of URLs maintained by a classifier. The tracking service may insert this URL along with the JavaScript as objects in the web page.

The URL of interest may be selected using various techniques. In one technique the selection may be random. In another technique the selection may be deterministic based on one or more contexts. For example the user ID may be associated with a user profile. The selected URL may be based on this profile as further illustrated in . In another example the session ID may be associated with a clickstream of the user. The clickstream may indicate a browsing for a particular type of an item or for an item category. The selected URL may correspond to a web page about that item item type or item category. In yet another example the selected URL may correspond to a particular web page of another service provider similar to the web page of the service provider. This particular web page may include similar information a portion of the information or describe a same item relative to the web page of the service provider. In a further example the service provider may have a particular interest in certain web pages of other service providers. The selected URL may be based on this interest and may correspond to one of these web pages.

At operation the web page may be provided from the server to the computing device in response to the request for information. In turn the browser of the computing device or some other application may render the web page. When the web page is rendered the inserted URL may not be rendered or be visible to the user. Further the rendering may include executing the JavaScript. As such the history of previously accessed or visited web pages may be determined. If the history includes the URL of interest and or if the state or the style attribute of this URL indicates that the URL was used e.g. the other web pages accessed or visited prior to the web page being provided an indication of this prior access may be generated.

At operation the indication may be received. For example the tracking service may receive the indication via a socket. The indication may include a description e.g. a flag of whether the URL of interest may have been previously used e.g. the flag set to yes or some other value if so otherwise set to no or a default value . In another example the indication may include a portion of the browsing history. In yet another example the indication may be received only if the URL was previously used.

At operation the user may be associated with a user characteristic based on the indication. For example if the indication indicates that the user has previously used the URL of interest and accessed the corresponding web page the tracking service may associate the user or the user ID with the user characteristic. The tracking service may determine the user characteristic from the metadata associated with the URL of interest and maintained at the classifier.

A user profile may also be maintained for the user. For example the user profile may be a part of a user account at the web site of the service provider. As such when the user is associated with the user characteristic the tracking service may update the user profile to also include the user characteristic and optionally the respective likelihood. In an example this update may be based on the user ID. Over time the user profile may be updated with different user characteristics based on a history of accesses to web pages of interest. The tracking service may use information from the user profile e.g. the added or updated user characteristics to select what URLs of interest may be inserted in web pages provided to the user s computing device and or to further refine the information e.g. the selected targeted content provided in computing sessions between the computing device and the server. illustrates an example flow that may use the user profile.

In particular the example flow of may start at operation where the user or the user ID may be associated with the user characteristic based on an indication that a web page was previously accessed. This association may implement some or all of the operations of the example flow of .

At operation targeted content may be provided to the user s computing device based on the association. By associating the user with the user characteristic the tracking service may have classified the user in a group of users that may share that user characteristic. This classification may enable various actions to be performed including providing the targeted content. The targeted content may be content e.g. advertisement of the service provider. For example the content may relate to an item available for ordering from the web site of the service provider. The targeted content may be selected from available content based on various parameters. For example the targeted content may be selected based on being associated with the group of users or based on having a particular affinity to the user characteristic. To illustrate if the user characteristic indicates that the user may have a particular hobby the targeted content may be an advertisement for an item that may relate to the hobby. In another example the targeted content may be selected based on the requested web page or the web page of interest. To illustrate any or both of the web pages may describe an item. Accordingly the targeted content may include an advertisement about this item. Further when provided to the user s computing device the targeted content may be rendered in a space e.g. a widget a banner of the requested web page or any other web page that the user may subsequently visit.

At operation the user profile may be updated based on the association. For example the tracking service may access the user profile based on the user ID and add the user characteristic to the user profile. If the user profile already contains the user characteristic the respective likelihood may be updated e.g. increased . In addition the tracking service may associate the session ID with the added user characteristic. This may allow tracking the addition and frequencies of user characteristics over time by keeping track of what user characteristic s may have been observed in each computing session.

At operation another computing session may exist. For example the user or the computing device may have left and then revisited the web site. This new computing session may be associated with a new session ID and the same user ID. In addition the user may request the same or a different web page during this new session. Accordingly the tracking service may collect again data about the history of the user access to web pages of interest based on inserting respective URLs in the requested web page. In an example the tracking service may insert a URL of interest based on the user profile. This selection may follow different approaches. In one approach the tracking service may focus on a particular user characteristic. For instance if the user profile indicates a particular user characteristic the tracking service may select the URL of interest as one associated with metadata containing that user characteristic. This may allow the tracking service to further collect data about the user characteristic and update the respective likelihood accordingly. In another approach the tracking service may diversify the data collection. For instance if the user profile indicates a particular user characteristic the tracking service may select a URL of interest that may correspond to another user characteristic. This may allow the collection of data about the other characteristic.

At operation targeted content may be provided in the new computing session based on the user profile. For example the tracking service may select targeted content based on a particular user characteristic from the user profile e.g. one having the highest likelihood or having likelihood over a certain threshold . In another example the tracking service may also consider the user characteristics as a function of the session ID. For instance if the user profile indicates that a particular user characteristic may have been observed in only a number of recent computing sessions e.g. in the last three sessions within an hour of the new computing session the user browsed a particular camera model the tracking service may determine that this user characteristic may be more relevant than other observed characteristics over time. Accordingly the tracking service may select content targeted to that particular user characteristic e.g. a discount applicable to purchasing the camera .

In addition to providing targeted content user authentication may be provided as a service based on the user s history of access to web pages. This history may be used as a factor in the authentication along with the user ID. illustrates an example flow for authenticating the user.

In particular the example flow of may start at operation where a request for information may be received. For example the user may operate the computing device and request a web page that may include the information. The request may be used as a trigger to authenticate the user based on different approaches.

In one approach the trigger may be associated with a login web page. In other words when the received request is for a login web page that request may trigger the tracking service to use the history of accessed web pages as a factor in the authentication. This factor may be used in conjunction with other authentication factors. For example the login web page may be configured to authenticate the user based on a username and a password. Further authenticating the user based on the history of accessed web pages may be an additional authentication factor. In another approach the trigger need not be the login web page. Instead the trigger may be associated with any web page. In this approach the user ID may be authenticated in conjunction with receiving a request for any web page of the service provider s web site. In this approach if authenticated the user may be given access to certain information or portions of the web site that would have been inaccessible otherwise.

At operation a URL of another web page of the web site and a JavaScript may be inserted in the requested web page. This other web page may be a particular web page that may allow the authentication of the user or user ID based on the history of the web page accessed. Generally the particular web page may be selected based on the user ID. For example the particular web page may represent a web page unique to the user or user ID and or that may have been accessed by or may be accessible to only the user. Different approaches may be used to select this particular web page. In one approach the particular web page may represent a web page that may follow a successful authentication of the user through the login web page e.g. one that may be accessed uniquely by the user after being authenticated through the login web page .

In another approach the particular web page may be uniquely set up for the user independently of the login web page. For example the particular web page may have a particular URL. This URL may use e.g. include or append the user ID a hash of the user ID and or a hash of information about the user e.g. from the user account . This particular web page may only be accessible if the proper user ID was presented. Further the particular web page may have been provided to and accessed by the user s computing device in a previous computing session. However this access may be transparent to the user. For example the particular web page may have been rendered in an invisible frame e.g. one rendered in a window with a size set to zero or one rendered outside a visible window .

Once the particular web page is selected the respective URL may be inserted in the requested web page. In addition the JavaScript may be configured to upon execution access the history of the computing device s browser or any other application to determine whether this URL may be found in the browser s history and or the state or style information of the URL.

At operation the requested web page may be provided to the computing device. As such when this web page is rendered at the computing device the JavaScript may be executed to determine whether the particular web page was accessed prior to providing the requested web page and to generate an indication of this determination. The indication may be sent to the tracking service.

At operation the indication may be received. For example the tracking service may receive the indication based on the executed JavaScript accessing the browser s history.

At operation the user or user ID may be authenticated based on the indication. Generally if the indication indicates that the particular web page was previously accessed the tracking service may authenticate the user e.g. validate the user ID . Otherwise the tracking service may determine that the user is unauthenticated. The authentication process may be based on the requested web page. For example if the requested web page was the login web page the indication may be used as one factor in the authentication process that may also include using the username and password. In another example if the requested web page was not the login web page the indication on its own may be sufficient to authenticate the user. In particular the indication that the particular web page was previously accessed may represent that the user ID from this computing session may be the same user ID used in a previous computing session.

The tracking service may provide different services based on authenticating the user. Some of these services may relate to providing targeted content and or detecting a web crawler. For example an authenticated user may be provided access to targeted content e.g. special deals otherwise unavailable to an unauthenticated user. In another example a computing device of an authenticated user may be identified as also being authenticated. For instance an identifier of the computing device may be added to a list of trusted devices and or to a list of devices associated with non web crawlers.

The authentication process may include additional steps if the indication indicates that the particular web page was not previously accessed. In particular this lack of access may not in certain situations accurately reflect that the particular web page was not previously accessed. For example the user may have cleared the browser s history prior to the current computing session. In another example the user may be a new user e.g. one that recently opened a user account . As such the authentication process may check for these situations.

For example the JavaScript may be further configured to check the amount of the history e.g. byte size or the number of visited URLs in the history. If the amount or the number is below a threshold the tracking service may nonetheless authenticate the user e.g. based on the username and password . However if the threshold is exceeded the tracking service may not authenticate the user.

In another example the authentication process may also include determining a time when the user account was generated. If that time is less than a threshold e.g. the user account was recently opened the tracking service may nonetheless authenticate the user e.g. based on the username and password . Otherwise the tracking service may not authenticate the user.

In addition to providing targeted content an authenticating a user detecting a web crawler may be provided as a service based on the user s history of access to web pages. In particular the user may include the web crawler. For example the web crawler may be hosted on the computing device and may be accessing web pages of the service provider s web site. illustrates an example flow for detecting the web crawler.

In particular the example flow of may start at operation where a request for information may be received from the computing device. The information may be available from a web page of the service provider s website.

At operation a URL of another web page and a JavaScript may be inserted in the requested web page. The other web page may represent a particular web page of interest such that access to the particular web page may facilitate a determination of whether the computing device may be hosting the web crawler. Various approaches may be used to set up and select this particular web page.

In one approach the particular web page may be set up to be likely e.g. with likelihood exceeding a threshold accessible to the web crawler and likely inaccessible to non web crawlers. In other words the particular web page may be unique to web crawlers and may be a part of for example a botnet honeypot. Generally a botnet honeypot may include one or more web pages a web site and or underlying infrastructure e.g. hosting computing system that may appear to be part of a network but that may actually be isolated and monitored. That network may contain information or a resource of value to web crawler such that the web crawler may likely access the network e.g. one of the web pages . As such if the particular web page was previously accessed under this approach this previous access may indicate that the computing device may be hosting the web crawler.

In another approach the particular web page may be set up to be likely e.g. with likelihood exceeding a threshold inaccessible to the web crawler and likely accessible to non web crawlers. In other words the particular web page may be unique to non web crawlers. For example the particular web page may represent a web page commonly or frequently accessed by non web crawlers e.g. a home page and may belong to a certain portion of the web site. A robots exclusion protocol of the web site may identify that portion of the web site including the particular web page to be inaccessible to web crawlers. As such while frequently accessed by non web crawlers the web crawler may unlikely access this particular web page. Under this approach if the particular web page was not previously accessed the lack of the previous access may indicate that the computing device may be hosting the web crawler.

The tracking service may select the particular web page and accordingly insert the corresponding URL in the requested web page. In addition the tracking service may insert the JavaScript. The JavaScript may be configured to upon execution access the history of the computing device s browser or any other application implementing a web crawler to determine whether this URL may be found in the browser s history and or the state or style information of the URL.

At operation the requested web page may be provided to the computing device. This may cause the execution of the JavaScript. In turn an indication of whether the particular web page was accessed prior to providing the requested web page may be generated. The indication may be sent to the tracking service.

At operation the indication may be received. For example the tracking service may receive the indication based on the execution of the JavaScript.

At operation the web crawler may be detected based on the indication. This detection may also depend on the approach implemented to select the particular web page. For example if the particular web page was unique to the web crawler and if the indication indicates that this particular web page was previously accessed the tracking service may detect the web crawler. In another example if the particular web page was unique to non web crawlers and if the indication indicates that this particular web page was not previously accessed the tracking service may detect the web crawler.

In addition in conjunction with or subsequent to detecting the web crawler the web service may implement additional sub operations to further validate the detection. For example the tracking service may update the JavaScript or insert another JavaScript in the same requested web page or in another web page provided to the computing device. The updated or new JavaScript may be configured to execute after a time delay e.g. a number of seconds and check access to any web page e.g. a commonly accessed web page . Typically the web crawler may scrap the web page in less time than the time delay. Accordingly the web crawler may not execute this JavaScript. Thus not receiving an indication based on this JavaScript may indicate that the computing device may be hosting the web crawler. Conversely if an indication is received about the web page having been accessed the tracking service may detect a non web crawler. In another example an additional URL may be inserted. As inserted the additional URL may be configured to be rendered as an image. Typically the web crawler may use a headless browser that may not render images. Accordingly the web crawler may not follow the additional URL and may not access a corresponding web page. Thus not receiving a request for the corresponding web page may indicate that the computing device may be hosting the web crawler.

Once the web crawler is detected the tracking service may perform additional actions associated with this user characteristic e.g. being a web crawler . Generally these additional actions may alleviate or support managing the network traffic to the web site such that the experience of non web crawlers may be improved. For example the requested information as described at operation or a portion thereof may be provided through a particular network path. In particular the information may be provided from a source e.g. a proxy server or through a programming application interface API different from the one used to provide information to non crawler. In another example a subset rather than the entire information may be provided. For example text but not image data may be provided.

Monitoring a history of accesses to web pages may enable providing various services to a user. Such monitoring and service providing may be implemented as a part of an electronic marketplace offering items to the users. illustrates an example environment of an electronic marketplace.

In particular a service provider of an electronic marketplace may implement a tracking service similar to the tracking service on a computing system. The tracking service may be configured to classify a user and provide a service based on the classification.

In an embodiment the electronic marketplace may provide a web site to access information about the offered items. The electronic marketplace may also provide an electronic platform to offer the items and to maintain information about the items and the offers. For example the offered items may be cataloged in an item catalog . The item catalog may represent a data structure describing the information about the items. An item may be associated with one or more pages of the item catalog where the page s may describe attributes of the item the offer and other information associated with offering the item at the electronic marketplace .

A web page of the electronic marketplace may be associated with an item. The web page may use information from the item catalog . In an example the web page may allow sellers and or the service provider to define offers of items. For instance the sellers may list offers . The provided information may be added to the item catalog . The web page may also allow customers to review the information available from the item catalog e.g. offers and make order or purchase decisions. The customers may for example submit web page request to view information about items make purchase decisions and conduct various transactions.

In response to a customer s request for a web page the tracking service may select and insert URLs of web pages of interest and a JavaScript configured to determine whether any of these URLs may have been previously accessed. The web page may be provided to the customer or the customer s computing device for rendering. When rendered an indication of the previous access may be received by the tracking service . Accordingly the tracking service may classify the customer and perform an action.

As such the service provider may operate the electronic marketplace to facilitate interactions between the service provider the customers and the sellers over a network . Each one of the sellers may operate one or more seller devices A N to access the electronic marketplace and perform various seller related functions. A customer may be an item recipient a buyer or any user reviewing browsing ordering obtaining purchasing or returning an item of a seller. Each one of the customers may operate one or more customer devices A K to access the electronic marketplace and perform various customer related functions. By implementing the tracking service the service provider may automatically classify a customer and provide a respective service.

Turning to that figure illustrates an example end to end computing environment for a history of accesses to web pages may enable providing various services to a user. In this example a service provider may implement a tracking service to provide various services associated with offering items. The items may be offered at an electronic marketplace by a seller and or the service provider and may be available for ordering by a customer .

In a basic configuration the seller may utilize a seller device to access local applications a web service application a seller account accessible through the web service application a web site or any other network based resources via one or more networks . In some aspects the web service application the web site and or the seller account may be hosted managed and or otherwise provided by one or more computing resources of the service provider such as by utilizing one or more service provider devices . The seller may use the local applications and or the web service application to interact with the network based resources of the service provider and perform seller related transactions. These transactions may include for example offering items for sale. Some or all of these transactions may use web pages of the service provider.

In some examples the seller device may be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. In one illustrative configuration the seller device may contain communications connection s that allow the seller device to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server seller terminals and or other devices on the networks . The seller device may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

The seller device may also include at least one or more processing units or processor device s and one memory . The processor device s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instructions or firmware implementations of the processor device s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor device s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of seller device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The seller device may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system O S and the one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including the web service application . In some examples the seller device may be in communication with the service provider devices via the networks or via other network connections. The networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the seller accessing the web service application over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the seller interacts with the service provider devices via the seller device over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications peer to peer systems etc. .

Similarly a customer may utilize customer device to access local applications a web service application a customer account accessible through the web service application a web site or any other network based resources via the networks . In some aspects the web service application the web site and or the user account may be hosted managed and or otherwise provided by the service provider devices and may be similar to the web service application the web site accessed by the computing device and or the seller account respectively.

The customer may use the local applications and or the web service application to conduct transactions with the network based resources of the service provider. These transactions may include for example browsing for items viewing items ordering items reviewing items returning items and or other transactions. Some or all of these transactions may use web pages of the service provider.

In some examples the customer device may be configured similarly to the seller device and may include at least one or more processing units or processor device s and one memory . The processor device s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof similarly to the processor device s . Likewise the memory may also be configured similarly to the memory and may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor device s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. For example the memory may include an operating system O S and the one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including the web service application .

As described briefly above the web service applications and may allow the seller and customer respectively to interact with the service provider devices to conduct transactions involving items. The service provider devices perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may host the web service applications and . These servers may be configured to host a web site or combination of web sites viewable via the computing devices and . Other server architectures may also be used to host the web service applications and . The web service applications and may be capable of handling requests from many sellers and customers respectively and serving in response various interfaces that may be rendered at the computing devices and such as but not limited to a web site. The web service applications and may interact with any type of web site that supports interaction including social networking sites electronic retailers informational sites blog sites search engine sites news and entertainment sites and so forth. As discussed above the described techniques may similarly be implemented outside of the web service applications and such as with other applications running on the computing devices and respectively.

The service provider devices may in some examples provide network based resources such as but not limited to applications for purchase and or download web sites web hosting client entities data storage data access management virtualization etc. The service provider devices may also be operable to provide web hosting computer application development and or implementation platforms or combinations of the foregoing to the seller and customer .

The service provider devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a server computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. The service provider devices may also contain communications connection s that allow service provider devices to communicate with a stored database other computing devices or servers seller terminals and or other devices on the network . The service provider devices may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Additionally in some embodiments the service provider devices may be executed by one or more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released network based resources. Such network based resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment. In some examples the service provider devices may be in communication with the computing devices and via the networks or via other network connections. The service provider devices may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster or as individual servers not associated with one another.

In one illustrative configuration the service provider devices may include at least one or more processing units or processor devices s and one memory . The processor device s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor device s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor device s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of the service provider devices the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The service provider devices may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Additionally the computer storage media described herein may include computer readable communication media such as computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. Such a transmitted signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electromagnetic optical or any combination thereof. However as used herein computer readable media does not include computer readable communication media.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system O S code for an electronic marketplace data related to an item catalog and code for a tracking service . Although illustrates the various data as stored in the memory this data or portion of the data may be additionally or alternatively stored at a storage device remotely accessible to the service provider devices .

Turning to the figure illustrates aspects of an example environment capable of implementing the above described structures and functions. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The environment includes an electronic client device which may include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network s and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers or any other computing device. The network s may include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system may depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network may be enabled by wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet and the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there may be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which may interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and or retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server may include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio files and or video files to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server may be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers and are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein may be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store may include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which may be used to serve content for the production side. The data store is also shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which may be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there may be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access correct information which may be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and may access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then may be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the client device . Information for a particular item of interest may be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of environment in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further may be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases may include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which may be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices may include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also may include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also may include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network may be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server may run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s may also be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment may include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These may reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device may include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as RAM or ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also may include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader may be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code may include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. However it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein may be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Disjunctive language such as that included in the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z in order for each to be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

