---

title: Heteroaryl-substituted hexahydropyrano[3,4-d][1,3]thiazin-2-amine compounds
abstract: 

and the variables Rand Rare as defined in the specification. Corresponding pharmaceutical compositions, methods of treatment, methods of synthesis, and intermediates are also disclosed.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09192612&OS=09192612&RS=09192612
owner: Pfizer Inc.
number: 09192612
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150423
---
This application is a continuation application under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 464 935 filed Aug. 21 2014 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 178 470 filed Feb. 12 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 764 185 filed on Feb. 13 2013 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to small molecule compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof that are inhibitors of site amyloid precursor protein APP Cleaving Enzyme 1 BACE1 and inhibitors of BACE2. This invention relates to inhibiting the production of A beta peptides that can contribute to the formation of neurological deposits of amyloid protein. The present invention also relates to the treatment of Alzheimer s Disease AD and other neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders as well as the treatment of diabetes in mammals including humans. More particularly this invention relates to thioamidine compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders such as AD and Down s Syndrome related to A beta peptide production.

Dementia results from a wide variety of distinctive pathological processes. The most common pathological processes causing dementia are Alzheimer s disease AD cerebral amyloid angiopathy CM and prion mediated diseases see e.g. Haan et al. Clin. Neurol. Neurosurg. 1990 92 4 305 310 Glenner et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 1989 94 1 28 . AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction. AD affects nearly half of all people past the age of 85 the most rapidly growing portion of the United States population. As such the number of AD patients in the United States is expected to increase from about 4 million to about 14 million by 2050.

The accumulation of amyloid A peptides is believed to be one of the underlying causes of Alzheimer s Disease AD which is the most common cause of cognitive decline in the elderly Hardy Allsop Trends Pharmacol Sci. 1991 12 10 383 8 Selkoe Behay. Brain Res. 2008 192 1 106 13 . A the major protein constituent of amyloid plaques is derived from sequential cleavage of the type I integral membrane protein amyloid precursor protein APP by two proteases and secretase. Proteolytic cleavage of APP by the site APP cleaving enzymes BACE1 and BACE2 generates a soluble N terminal ectodomain of APP sAPP and the C terminal fragment C99. Subsequent cleavage of the membrane bound C99 fragment by the secretase liberates the various A peptide species of which A 40 and A 42 are the most predominant forms Vassar et al. J. Neurosci. 2009 29 41 12787 94 Marks Berg Neurochem. Res. 2010 35 181 210 . Therefore limiting the generation of A directly through inhibition of BACE1 is one of the most attractive approaches for the treatment of AD as BACE1 inhibitors could effectively inhibit the formation of all predominant A peptides.

In addition it has been determined that BACE1 knock out mice had markedly enhanced clearance of axonal and myelin debris from degenerated fibers accelerated axonal regeneration and earlier reinnervation of neuromuscular junctions compared with littermate controls. These data suggest BACE1 inhibition as a therapeutic approach to accelerate regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage. See Farah et al. J. Neurosci. 2011 31 15 5744 5754 .

Insulin resistance and impaired glucose homoeostasis are important indicators of Type 2 diabetes and are early risk factors of AD. In particular there is a higher risk of sporadic AD in patients with Type 2 diabetes and AD patients are more prone to Type 2 diabetes Butler Diabetes 53 474 481 2004. . Recently it has also been proposed that AD should be reconsidered as Type 3 diabetes de la Monte J. Diabetes Sci. Technol. 2008 2 6 1101 1113 . Of special interest is the fact that AD and Type 2 diabetes share common pathogenic mechanisms and possibly treatments Park S. A. J. Clin. Neurol. 2011 7 10 18 Raffa Br. J. Clin. Pharmacol 2011 71 3 365 376 . Elevated plasma levels of A the product of BACE activities were recently associated with hyperglycemia and obesity in humans see Meakin et al. Biochem J. 2012 441 1 285 96. Martins Journal of Alzheimer s Disease 8 2005 269 282 . Moreover increased A production prompts the onset of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in mice C zar Castellano Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 302 E1373 E1380 2012 Delibegovic Diabetologia 2011 54 2143 2151 . Finally it is also suggested that circulating A could participate in the development of atherosclerosis in both humans and mice De Meyer Atherosclerosis 216 2011 54 58 Catapano Atherosclerosis 210 2010 78 87 Roher Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1812 2011 1508 1514 .

Therefore it is believed that BACE1 levels may play a critical role in glucose and lipid homoeostasis in conditions of chronic nutrient excess. Specifically BACE1 inhibitors may be potentially useful for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver as illustrated by the fact that reduction in BACE1 decreases body weight protects against diet induced obesity and enhances insulin sensitivity in mice see Meakin et al. Biochem. J. 2012 441 1 285 96 . Of equal interest is the identification of LRP1 as a BACE1 substrate and the potential link to atherosclerosis Strickland Physiol. Rev. 88 887 918 2008 Hyman J. Biol. Chem. Vol. 280 No. 18 17777 17785 2005 .

Likewise inhibition of BACE2 is proposed as a treatment of Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 . BACE2 is a cell enriched protease that regulates pancreatic cell function and mass and is a close homologue of BACE1. Pharmacological inhibition of BACE2 increases cell mass and function leading to the stabilization of Tmem27. See Esterhazy et al. Cell Metabolism 2011 14 3 365 377 . It is suggested that BACE2 inhibitors are useful in the treatment and or prevention of diseases associated with the inhibition of BACE2 e.g. Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 .

Aminodihydrothiazine or thioamidine compounds are described in US2009 0082560 WO 2009 091016 and WO 2010 038686 as useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. Co pending PCT application PCT IB2012 054198 filed by Pfizer Inc on Aug. 17 2012 also describes aminodihydrothiazine compounds that are useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. The present invention is directed to novel thioamidine compounds and their use in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including AD as well as the treatment of metabolic diseases and conditions such as diabetes and obesity.

Ris a 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl having one to four heteroatoms independently selected from N O or S wherein at least one of the heteroatoms is N and wherein said N is optionally substituted with R and wherein said 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl is optionally substituted on carbon with one to three R 

Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy cyano Calkyl Calkoxy Calkoxy Calkyl Ccycloalkoxy Ccycloalkoxy CRR Ccycloalkyl CRR O CRR Ccycloalkyl or CRR 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkoxy or Calkoxy Calkyl are each optionally substituted with one to three fluoro and wherein said Ccycloalkyl Ccycloalkoxy and 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl moieties are optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of fluoro methyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl or trifluoromethyl 

Ris hydrogen Calkyl CRR Ccycloalkyl or CRR 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl and 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl moieties are each optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from fluoro methyl trifluoromethyl methoxy or trifluoromethoxy 

Another embodiment of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds of Formula I or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle diluent or carrier. The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be used for inhibiting production of amyloid protein and for inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 for treating a neurodegenerative disease and in particular Alzheimer s Disease for inhibiting BACE1 and or BACE2 activity for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of diseases and disorders characterized by elevated amyloid levels including diabetes or Type 2 diabetes for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver in a mammal including humans and for treating and or preventing obesity.

The present invention is also directed to methods of treatment employing the compounds of Formula I such as 

 1 Methods of inhibiting BACE enzyme activity by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a thioamidine compound of any of the embodiments of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a mammal or a patient in need thereof.

 2 Methods for treating conditions or diseases of the central nervous system and neurological disorders in which the secretase enzyme is involved such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease brain injury stroke cerebrovascular diseases including cerebral arteriosclerosis cerebral amyloid angiopathy hereditary cerebral hemorrhage and brain hypoxia ischemia cognitive disorders including amnesia senile dementia HIV associated dementia Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease Lewy body dementia vascular dementia drug related dementia tardive dyskinesia myoclonus dystonia delirium Pick s disease Creutzfeldt Jacob disease HIV disease Gilles de la Tourette s syndrome epilepsy muscular spasms and disorders associated with muscular spasticity or weakness including tremors and mild cognitive impairment MCI mental deficiency including spasticity Down syndrome and fragile X syndrome sleep disorders including hypersomnia circadian rhythm sleep disorder insomnia parasomnia and sleep deprivation and psychiatric disorders such as anxiety including acute stress disorder generalized anxiety disorder social anxiety disorder panic disorder post traumatic stress disorder agoraphobia and obsessive compulsive disorder factitious disorder including acute hallucinatory mania impulse control disorders including compulsive gambling and intermittent explosive disorder mood disorders including bipolar I disorder bipolar II disorder mania mixed affective state major depression chronic depression seasonal depression psychotic depression seasonal depression premenstrual syndrome PMS premenstrual dysphoric disorder PDD and postpartum depression psychomotor disorder psychotic disorders including schizophrenia schizoaffective disorder schizophreniform and delusional disorder drug dependence including narcotic dependence alcoholism amphetamine dependence cocaine addiction nicotine dependence and drug withdrawal syndrome eating disorders including anorexia bulimia binge eating disorder hyperphagia obesity compulsive eating disorders and pagophagia sexual dysfunction disorders urinary incontinence neuronal damage disorders including ocular damage retinopathy or macular degeneration of the eye tinnitus hearing impairment and loss and brain edema nerve injury treatment including accelerating regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage and pediatric psychiatric disorders including attention deficit disorder attention deficit hyperactive disorder conduct disorder and autism in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The compounds of Formula I may also be useful for improving memory both short term and long term and learning ability. The text revision of the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM IV TR 2000 American Psychiatric Association Washington D.C. provides a diagnostic tool for identifying many of the disorders described herein. The skilled artisan will recognize that there are alternative nomenclatures nosologies and classification systems for disorders described herein including those as described in the DMS IV TR and that terminology and classification systems evolve with medical scientific progress 

 3 Methods for treating a neurological disorder such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Niemann Pick type C brain injury stroke cerebrovascular disease cognitive disorder sleep disorder or a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety factitious disorder impulse control disorder mood disorder psychomotor disorder psychotic disorder drug dependence eating disorder and pediatric psychiatric disorder in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

 4 Methods for the treatment e.g. delaying the progression or onset of diabetes or diabetes related disorders including Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes impaired glucose tolerance insulin resistance hyperglycemia and diabetic complications such as atherosclerosis coronary heart disease stroke peripheral vascular disease nephropathy hypertension neuropathy and retinopathy 

 5 Methods for the treatment of obesity co morbidities such as metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome includes diseases conditions or disorders such as dyslipidemia hypertension insulin resistance diabetes e.g. Type 2 diabetes coronary artery disease and heart failure. For more detailed information on metabolic syndrome see e.g. Zimmet P. Z. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome Perhaps an Etiologic Mystery but Far From a Myth Where Does the International Diabetes Federation Stand Medscape Diabetes Endocrinology 7 2 2005 and Alberti K. G. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome A New Worldwide Definition Lancet 366 1059 62 2005 and

 6 Methods for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD and hepatic insulin resistance 

The present invention is also directed to combination therapies wherein the compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided 

All patents patent applications and references referred to herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Other features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from this specification and the appendent claims which describe the invention. It is to be understood that both the foregoing and the following detailed description are exemplary only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention and the examples included therein. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to specific methods of synthesis which may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In this specification and in the claims that follow reference will be made to a number of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings 

As used herein eating disorders refer to illnesses in which the patient suffers disturbances in his her eating behaviors and related thoughts and emotions. Representative examples of obesity related eating disorders include overeating bulimia binge eating disorder compulsive dieting nocturnal sleep related eating disorder pica Prader Willi syndrome and night eating syndrome.

 Patient refers to warm blooded animals such as for example guinea pigs mice rats gerbils cats rabbits dogs cattle goats sheep horses monkeys chimpanzees and humans.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable means the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of delaying the progression of delaying the onset of or preventing the disorder or condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above. The term treating also includes adjuvant and neo adjuvant treatment of a subject. For the avoidance of doubt reference herein to treatment includes reference to curative palliative and prophylactic treatment and to the administration of a medicament for use in such treatment.

The term alkyl refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl including n propyl and isopropyl butyl including n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl pentyl isoamyl hexyl and the like.

The term alkoxy refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent attached to an oxygen radical i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon alcohol by removal of the hydrogen from the OH in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methoxy ethoxy propoxy including n propoxy and isopropoxy butoxy including n butoxy isobutoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy pentoxy hexoxy and the like.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. alkyl cycloalkyl etc. is indicated by the prefix C C or C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl or Calkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C Ccycloalkyl or C cycloalkyl refers to saturated cycloalkyl group containing from 3 to 6 carbon ring atoms.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a carbocyclic substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated carbocyclic molecule for example one having three to six carbon atoms. The term Ccycloalkyl means a radical of a three to six membered ring which includes the groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. The term Ccycloalkoxy refers to a three to six membered cycloalkyl group attached to an oxygen radical. Examples include cyclopropoxy cyclobutoxy cyclopentoxy and cyclohexoxy.

In some instances the number of atoms in a cyclic substituent containing one or more heteroatoms i.e. heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix x to y membered wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of atoms forming the cyclic moiety of the substituent. Thus for example 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl containing from 4 to 6 atoms including one to three heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heterocycloalkyl. Likewise the phrase 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl containing from 5 to 6 atoms and 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl containing from 5 to 10 atoms each including one or more heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heteroaryl. Furthermore the phases 5 membered heteroaryl and 6 membered heteroaryl refer to a five membered heteroaromatic ring system and a six membered heteroaromatic ring system respectively. The heteroatoms present in these ring systems are selected from N O and S.

The term hydroxy or hydroxyl refers to OH. When used in combination with another term s the prefix hydroxy indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more hydroxy substituents. Compounds bearing a carbon to which one or more hydroxy substituents include for example alcohols enols and phenol.

The term halo or halogen refers to fluorine which may be depicted as F chlorine which may be depicted as Cl bromine which may be depicted as Br or iodine which may be depicted as I .

The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated or partially saturated ring structure containing a total of the specified number of atoms such as 4 to 6 ring atoms wherein at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. In a group that has a heterocycloalkyl substituent the ring atom of the heterocycloalkyl substituent that is bound to the group may be a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be a ring carbon atom. Similarly if the heterocycloalkyl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom.

The term heteroaryl refers to an aromatic ring structure containing the specified number of ring atoms in which at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered heteroaryl substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl and pyridazinyl and 5 membered heteroaryl substituents such as triazolyl imidazolyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl. The heteroaryl group can also be a bicyclic heteroaromatic group such as indolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl benzoisoxazolyl oxazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl imidazopyrimidinyl and the like. In a group that has a heteroaryl substituent the ring atom of the heteroaryl substituent that is bound to the group may be one of the heteroatoms or it may be a ring carbon atom. Similarly if the heteroaryl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to one of the heteroatoms or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom. The term heteroaryl also includes pyridyl N oxides and groups containing a pyridine N oxide ring. In addition the heteroaryl group may contain an oxo group such as the one present in a pyridone group. Further examples include furyl thienyl oxazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridin 2 1H onyl pyridazin 2 1H onyl pyrimidin 2 1H onyl pyrazin 2 1H onyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl and pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl. The heteroaryl can be further substituted as defined herein.

Examples of single ring heteroaryls and heterocycloalkyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl isopyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl isoimidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl dithiolyl oxathiolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiaoxadiazolyl oxathiazolyl oxadiazolyl including oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl pyranyl including 1 2 pyranyl or 1 4 pyranyl dihydropyranyl pyridinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including s triazinyl as triazinyl and v triazinyl oxazinyl including 2H 1 2 oxazinyl 6H 1 3 oxazinyl or 2H 1 4 oxazinyl isoxazinyl including o isoxazinyl or p isoxazinyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 2H 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl or 2H 1 2 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl can also include when specified ring systems having two rings wherein such rings may be fused and wherein one ring is aromatic and the other ring is not fully part of the conjugated aromatic system i.e. the heteroaromatic ring can be fused to a cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl ring . Non limiting examples of such ring systems include 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro quinolinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta b pyridinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta c pyridinyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazolyl 2 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazolyl 5 6 dihydro 4H pyrrolo 1 2 b pyrazolyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 4 triazolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 1H indazolyl and 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 2H indazolyl. It is to be understood that if a carbocyclic or heterocyclic moiety may be bonded or otherwise attached to a designated substrate through differing ring atoms without denoting a specific point of attachment then all possible points are intended whether through a carbon atom or for example a trivalent nitrogen atom. For example the term pyridyl means 2 3 or 4 pyridyl the term thienyl means 2 or 3 thienyl and so forth.

If substituents are described as independently having more than one variable each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s from the list of variables available. Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

If substituents are described as being independently selected from a group each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s . Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

As used herein the term Formula I may be hereinafter referred to as a compound s of the invention the present invention and compound of Formula I. Such terms are also defined to include all forms of the compound of Formula I including hydrates solvates isomers crystalline and non crystalline forms isomorphs polymorphs and metabolites thereof. For example the compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may exist in unsolvated and solvated forms. When the solvent or water is tightly bound the complex will have a well defined stoichiometry independent of humidity. When however the solvent or water is weakly bound as in channel solvates and hygroscopic compounds the water solvent content will be dependent on humidity and drying conditions. In such cases non stoichiometry will be the norm.

The compounds of the invention may exist as clathrates or other complexes. Included within the scope of the invention are complexes such as clathrates drug host inclusion complexes wherein the drug and host are present in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. Also included are complexes of the compounds of the invention containing two or more organic and or inorganic components which may be in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. The resulting complexes may be ionized partially ionized or non ionized. For a review of such complexes see J. Pharm. Sci. 64 8 1269 1288 by Haleblian August 1975 .

The compounds of the invention have asymmetric carbon atoms. The carbon carbon bonds of the compounds of the invention may be depicted herein using a solid line a solid wedge or a dotted wedge . The use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers e.g. specific enantiomers racemic mixtures etc. at that carbon atom are included. The use of either a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that only the stereoisomer shown is meant to be included. It is possible that compounds of Formula I may contain more than one asymmetric carbon atom. In those compounds the use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers are meant to be included. For example unless stated otherwise it is intended that the compounds of Formula I can exist as enantiomers and diastereomers or as racemates and mixtures thereof. The use of a solid line to depict bonds to one or more asymmetric carbon atoms in a compound of Formula I and the use of a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to other asymmetric carbon atoms in the same compound is meant to indicate that a mixture of diastereomers is present.

Stereoisomers of Formula I include cis and trans isomers optical isomers such as R and S enantiomers diastereomers geometric isomers rotational isomers conformational isomers and tautomers of the compounds of the invention including compounds exhibiting more than one type of isomerism and mixtures thereof such as racemates and diastereomeric pairs . Also included are acid addition or base addition salts wherein the counterion is optically active for example D lactate or L lysine or racemic for example DL tartrate or DL arginine.

When any racemate crystallizes crystals of two different types are possible. The first type is the racemic compound true racemate referred to above wherein one homogeneous form of crystal is produced containing both enantiomers in equimolar amounts. The second type is the racemic mixture or conglomerate wherein two forms of crystal are produced in equimolar amounts each comprising a single enantiomer.

The compounds of Formula I may exhibit the phenomenon of tautomerism such tautomers are also regarded as compounds of the invention. For example the compounds of Formula I may exist in several tautomeric forms including the 2 amino dihydrothiazine form Ia and the 2 imino tetrahydrothiazine form Ib. All such tautomeric forms and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of compounds of Formula I. Tautomers exist as mixtures of a tautomeric set in solution. In solid form usually one tautomer predominates. Even though one tautomer may be described the present invention includes all tautomers of the compounds of Formula I and salts thereof. Examples of tautomers are described by the compounds of Formula Ia and Ib and collectively and generically are referred to as compounds of Formula I.

The compounds of this invention may be used in the form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. Depending on the particular compound a salt of the compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s physical properties such as enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or oil. In some instances a salt of a compound also may be used as an aid in the isolation purification and or resolution of the compound.

Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being used in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared by combining a compound of Formula I with an acid whose anion or a base whose cation is generally considered suitable for human consumption. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are particularly useful as products of the methods of the present invention because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound. For use in medicine the salts of the compounds of this invention are non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salts encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention when possible include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic hydrofluoric boric fluoroboric phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric carbonic sulfonic and sulfuric acids and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isothionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic trifluoromethanesulfonic succinic toluenesulfonic tartaric and trifluoroacetic acids. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids.

Specific examples of suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sufanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate 2 naphthalesulfonate oxalate palmoate pectinate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include the lighter alkali metal salts i.e. sodium or potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts and salts formed with suitable organic ligands e.g. quaternary ammonium salts. In another embodiment base salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts including aluminum arginine benzathine choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine meglumine olamine tromethamine and zinc salts.

Organic salts may be made from secondary tertiary or quaternary amine salts such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

In one embodiment hemisalts of acids and bases may also be formed for example hemisulfate and hemicalcium salts.

Also within the scope of the present invention are so called prodrugs of the compound of the invention. Thus certain derivatives of the compound of the invention which may have little or no pharmacological activity themselves can when administered into or onto the body be converted into the compound of the invention having the desired activity for example by hydrolytic cleavage. Such derivatives are referred to as prodrugs. Further information on the use of prodrugs may be found in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 ACS Symposium Series T. Higuchi and V. Stella and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Pergamon Press 1987 ed. E. B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association . Prodrugs in accordance with the invention can for example be produced by replacing appropriate functionalities present in the compounds of any of Formula I with certain moieties known to those skilled in the art as pro moieties as described for example in Design of Prodrugs by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 .

The present invention also includes isotopically labeled compounds which are identical to those recited in Formula I but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the present invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen sulfur fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N O O P S F and Cl respectively. Compounds of the present invention prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or of said prodrugs that contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labeled compounds of Formula I of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples and Preparations below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

A second embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris a 5 membered heteroaryl selected from the group consisting of pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl triazolyl and oxadiazolyl each optionally substituted on carbon with one to two R and wherein said pyrazolyl and triazolyl are substituted on N with R Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano Calkyl and Calkoxy wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three fluoro and Ris hydrogen methyl or trifluoroethyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A third embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

A fourth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the third embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris hydrogen or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fifth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the third embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris methyl or fluoromethyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A sixth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fifth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention wherein

A seventh embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the present invention selected from the group consisting of 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 fluoro 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 1 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 4 fluoro 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 6 4 Difluoromethyl 1 3 oxazol 2 yl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 1 H methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 1 methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 2 4aR 6R 8aS 2 Amino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl 1 3 oxazole 4 carbonitrile 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 methylpyrazin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aS 6S 8aR 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 methylpyrazin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine and 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 ethoxy 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

An eighth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fifth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention selected from the group consisting of 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 methyl 6 3 methyl 1 2 oxazol 5 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4S 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 fluoromethyl 6 3 methyl 1 2 oxazol 5 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 methyl 6 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4S 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 fluoromethyl 6 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A ninth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris a 6 membered heteroaryl selected from the group consisting of pyridinyl pyridonyl pyrimidinyl and pyrazinyl each optionally substituted on carbon with one to two R and wherein said pyridonyl is substituted on N with R Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano Calkyl and Calkoxy wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three fluoro and Ris hydrogen methyl or trifluoroethyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A tenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the ninth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

An eleventh embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the tenth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris hydrogen or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A twelfth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the eleventh embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 5 4aR 6R 8aS 2 Amino 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 6 yl 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one rel 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 methoxypyrimidin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 2 methylpyrimidin 5 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 pyrimidin 5 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 2 methoxypyridin 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 2 methylpyridin 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine and 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A thirteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris hydrogen and Ris selected from the group consisting of oxazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl and imidazopyrimidinyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fourteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the thirteenth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of 1 3 oxazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl 1 3 oxazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl and imidazo 1 2 a pyrimidinyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fifteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourteenth embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyrimidin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 1 3 oxazolo 4 5 c pyridin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 1 3 oxazolo 5 4 c pyridin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine and 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyridin 6 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A first embodiment of a second aspect of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any one of the first to fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle diluent or carrier.

Further embodiments of the present invention include methods of treatment employing the compounds of the present invention.

A first embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting production of amyloid protein in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of production of amyloid protein.

A second embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 .

A third embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method for treating a neurodegenerative disease in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment thereof.

A fourth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the third embodiment of the third aspect wherein the neurodegenerative disease is Alzheimer s Disease.

A fifth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of treating or preventing diabetes in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment or prevention thereof.

A sixth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the fifth embodiment of the third aspect wherein the diabetes is Type 2 diabetes.

Further embodiments of the present invention include the use of a compound according to any one of first through fifteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention in the preparation of a medicament useful for treating the conditions diseases and disorders as described herein.

Typically a compound of the invention is administered in an amount effective to treat a condition as described herein. The compounds of the invention are administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the compounds required to treat the progress of the medical condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The compounds of the invention may be administered orally. Oral administration may involve swallowing so that the compound enters the gastrointestinal tract or buccal or sublingual administration may be employed by which the compound enters the blood stream directly from the mouth.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly into the blood stream into muscle or into an internal organ. Suitable means for parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intraventricular intraurethral intrasternal intracranial intramuscular and subcutaneous. Suitable devices for parenteral administration include needle including microneedle injectors needle free injectors and infusion techniques.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered topically to the skin or mucosa that is dermally or transdermally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention can also be administered intranasally or by inhalation. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may be administered rectally or vaginally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly to the eye or ear.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary widely. Dosage levels of the order from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of a compound of the invention administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg. In another embodiment total daily dose of the compound of the invention is from about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg and in another embodiment from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg i.e. mg compound of the invention per kg body weight . In one embodiment dosing is from 0.01 to 10 mg kg day. In another embodiment dosing is from 0.1 to 1.0 mg kg day. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound will be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times . Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

For oral administration the compositions may be provided in the form of tablets containing from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient or in another embodiment from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously doses may range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion.

Suitable subjects according to the present invention include mammalian subjects. Mammals according to the present invention include but are not limited to canine feline bovine caprine equine ovine porcine rodents lagomorphs primates and the like and encompass mammals in utero. In one embodiment humans are suitable subjects. Human subjects may be of either gender and at any stage of development.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of the invention for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the conditions recited herein.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the compound of the invention can be administered as compound per se. Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable salts are suitable for medical applications because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions. Such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a compound of the invention presented with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the compound as a unit dose composition for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the active compounds. A compound of the invention may be coupled with suitable polymers as targetable drug carriers. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The active compounds and compositions for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dose form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the compounds of Formula I are ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. Such capsules or tablets may contain a controlled release formulation. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneal injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dose form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Typical formulations for this purpose include gels hydrogels lotions solutions creams ointments dusting powders dressings foams films skin patches wafers implants sponges fibres bandages and microemulsions. Liposomes may also be used. Typical carriers include alcohol water mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum glycerin polyethylene glycol and propylene glycol. Penetration enhancers may be incorporated see for example J. Pharm. Sci. 88 10 955 958 by Finnin and Morgan October 1999 .

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier. A typical formulation suitable for ocular or aural administration may be in the form of drops of a micronized suspension or solution in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline. Other formulations suitable for ocular and aural administration include ointments biodegradable e.g. absorbable gel sponges collagen and non biodegradable e.g. silicone implants wafers lenses and particulate or vesicular systems such as niosomes or liposomes. A polymer such as cross linked polyacrylic acid polyvinyl alcohol hyaluronic acid a cellulosic polymer for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose or methyl cellulose or a heteropolysaccharide polymer for example gelan gum may be incorporated together with a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride. Such formulations may also be delivered by iontophoresis.

For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant. Formulations suitable for intranasal administration are typically administered in the form of a dry powder either alone as a mixture for example in a dry blend with lactose or as a mixed component particle for example mixed with phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine from a dry powder inhaler or as an aerosol spray from a pressurized container pump spray atomizer preferably an atomizer using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist or nebulizer with or without the use of a suitable propellant such as 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 heptafluoropropane. For intranasal use the powder may comprise a bioadhesive agent for example chitosan or cyclodextrin.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dose form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository. Cocoa butter is a traditional suppository base but various alternatives may be used as appropriate.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

The compounds of the present invention can be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents in the treatment of various conditions or disease states. The compound s of the present invention and other therapeutic agent s may be may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially.

Two or more compounds may be administered simultaneously concurrently or sequentially. Additionally simultaneous administration may be carried out by mixing the compounds prior to administration or by administering the compounds at the same point in time but at different anatomic sites or using different routes of administration.

The phrases concurrent administration co administration simultaneous administration and administered simultaneously mean that the compounds are administered in combination.

The present invention includes the use of a combination of a BACE inhibitor compound as provided in Formula I and one or more additional pharmaceutically active agent s . If a combination of active agents is administered then they may be administered sequentially or simultaneously in separate dosage forms or combined in a single dosage form. Accordingly the present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of a a first agent comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound b a second pharmaceutically active agent and c a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle or diluent.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided. Suitable pharmaceutical agents that may be used in combination with the compounds of the present invention include without limitation 

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment described above. In one embodiment the kit contains a first dosage form comprising one or more of the compounds of the present invention and a container for the dosage in quantities sufficient to carry out the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of the invention.

The compounds of the present invention may be prepared by the methods described below together with synthetic methods known in the art of organic chemistry or modifications and transformations that are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may be prepared by routine methods known in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the Vol. I XII published by Wiley Interscience . Preferred methods include but are not limited to those described below.

During any of the following synthetic sequences it may be necessary and or desirable to protect sensitive or reactive groups on any of the molecules concerned. This can be achieved by means of conventional protecting groups such as those described in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1981 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1991 and T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1999 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Compounds of the invention or tautomers thereof or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or tautomers can be prepared according to the reaction Schemes discussed herein below. Unless otherwise indicated the substituents in the Schemes are defined as above. Isolation and purification of the products is accomplished by standard procedures which are known to a chemist of ordinary skill.

One skilled in the art will recognize that in many cases the compounds in Schemes 1 through 15 will be generated as a mixture of diastereomers and or enantiomers these may be separated at various stages of the synthetic schemes using conventional techniques or a combination of such techniques such as but not limited to crystallization normal phase chromatography reversed phase chromatography and chiral chromatography to afford the single enantiomers of the invention.

It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the various symbols superscripts and subscripts used in the schemes methods and examples are used for convenience of representation and or to reflect the order in which they are introduced in the schemes and are not intended to necessarily correspond to the symbols superscripts or subscripts in the appended claims. The schemes are representative of methods useful in synthesizing the compounds of the present invention. They are not to constrain the scope of the invention in any way.

Scheme 1 refers to the preparation of compounds of Formula I. Referring to Scheme 1 the compound of Formula I can be prepared from the compound of Formula II through a removal of protecting group P. Pin this case refers to groups well known to those skilled in the art for amine protection. For example Pmay be a benzoyl group Bz which can be cleaved via acidic conditions or through treatment with 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU in methanol. Alternatively Pmay be one of many protecting group suitable for amines including 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl Fmoc or tert butoxycarbonyl BOC and can be cleaved under standard conditions known to one skilled in the art.

Scheme 2 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. The treatment of lactones of Formula III with base for instance potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide KHMDS and N 5 chloropyridin 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methanesulfonamide Comins Reagent provides compounds of Formula IV. The reaction of enol triflate IV with the corresponding R containing boronic acid using standard Suzuki reaction conditions replaces the triflate with R subsequent reduction of the resultant enol ether using standard reduction conditions for instance trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate TMSOTf and triethylsilane provides compounds of Formula II. Alternatively the corresponding R containing heteroaryl iodide can be coupled with the compound of Formula IV under palladium mediated conditions with hexabutyldistannane. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 3 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. The oxidation of compounds of Formula V can be accomplished by a number of standard oxidation protocols for instance using tetrapropylammonium perruthenate TPAP and 4 methylmorpholine N oxide NMO in acetonitrile. Carboxylic acids VI can be converted to compounds of Formula II via a number of methods outlined in the following reference Practical Synthetic Organic Chemistry Reactions Principles and Techniques. 2011 Chapter 13 Wiley Sons Inc. Caron S. ed. as well as additional methods known to those skilled in the art. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 4 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. The oxidation of compounds of Formula V can be effected by a number of standard oxidation protocols for instance using Dess Martin periodinane or sulfur trioxide pyridine with DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide Parikh Doering conditions . Aldehydes VII can be converted to compounds of Formula II via a number of methods outlined in the following reference Practical Synthetic Organic Chemistry Reactions Principles and Techniques. 2011 Chapter 13 Wiley Sons Inc. Caron S. ed. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 5 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. The preparation of compounds of Formula VIII can be effected by activation of the acids VI using a standard peptide coupling reagent for instance using 2 2 oxo 1 2H pyridyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TPTU followed by treatment with an appropriate amine for instance a solution of ammonia in 1 4 dioxane. Amides of Formula VIII can be converted to compounds of Formula II via a number of methods outlined in the following reference Practical Synthetic Organic Chemistry Reactions Principles and Techniques. 2011 Chapter 13 Wiley Sons Inc. Caron S. ed. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 6 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Boc. Isoxazolidines of Formula IX are subjected to reducing conditions for instance zinc in acetic acid affording compounds of Formula X. These amino alcohols are treated with an isothiocyanate for instance benzoyl isothiocyanate to provide thioureas of Formula XI. Cyclization is induced using strong acid including for instance sulfuric acid or alternatively standard Mitsunobu conditions to give compounds of Formula II. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 7 refers to the preparation of compounds of Formula IX. Homoallylic alcohol XII is alkylated with 2 bromo 1 1 dimethoxyethane under basic conditions such as treatment with potassium hydride to provide the corresponding ether XIII. The acetal is cleaved under acidic conditions aqueous HCl as an example to give aldehyde XIV. Condensation with a hydroxylamine salt such as hydroxylamine sulfate provides a geometric mixture of the corresponding oxime XV. Cycloaddition to form isoxazoline XVI may be carried out by treatment of oxime XV with an oxidizing agent such as sodium hypochlorite or N chlorosuccinimide. Reaction of isoxazoline XVI with an appropriate arylmetallic reagent for instance an aryllithium such as 2 4 difluorophenyllithium or the corresponding aryl Grignard reagent at low temperature e.g. 78 C. yields compounds of Formula IX. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the stereochemistry of addition of the arylmetallic reagent is determined by the stereochemistry of the adjacent methine center yielding a racemic mixture of cis fused diastereomers which can be converted into compounds of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 6 and 1.

Scheme 8 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. Compounds of Formula XVII can be prepared by treatment of amides VIII wherein R H with a suitable methylating agent for instance trimethyloxonium tetrafluoroborate followed by treatment with an ammonia source for instance a solution of ammonia in methanol. Amidines XVII can be converted to compounds of Formula II via a number of methods outlined in the following reference Practical Synthetic Organic Chemistry Reactions Principles and Techniques. 2011 Chapter 13 Wiley Sons Inc. Caron S. ed. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 9 refers to the preparation of compounds of Formula III wherein Pis Bz or Fmoc. Aldehydes of Formula VII are subjected to basic conditions for instance potassium carbonate in acetonitrile and trapped using an appropriate anhydride for instance acetic anhydride to afford protected enol ethers of Formula XVIII wherein Pis an acyl group. Oxidative cleavage of the enol ether moiety using standard conditions including for instance ruthenium chloride and sodium periodate affords lactones of Formula III. Compound III can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 2 10 and 1.

Scheme 10 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Boc. The addition of an organometallic derivative magnesiate or lithiate of Rto compounds of Formula III under standard anionic conditions for instance in tetrahydrofuran THF at 78 C. provides compounds of Formula XIX. Subsequent reduction of the resultant lactol using standard reduction conditions for instance trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate TMSOTf and triethylsilane provides compounds of Formula II. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 11 refers to the preparation of compounds V wherein Pis Bz. Isoxazolidines of Formula XX which may be obtained via the chemistry depicted in Scheme 7 utilizing a benzyloxymethyl group in place of R are subjected to reducing conditions for instance zinc in acetic acid affording compounds of Formula XXI. The amino alcohols XXI are treated with an isothiocyanate for instance benzoyl isothiocyanate to provide thioureas of Formula XXII. Cyclization is induced using strong acid including for instance sulfuric acid or alternatively standard Mitsunobu conditions to give compounds of Formula XXIII. Cleavage of the benzyl ether under standard conditions for instance using boron trichloride provides alcohols of Formula V. Compound V can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 3 or 4 followed by Scheme 1.

Scheme 12 refers to the preparation of compounds IX wherein Ris CHF. Isoxazolidines of Formula XXIV are subjected to suitable conditions to introduce the fluorine into the Rgroup including but not limited to diethylamino sulfur trifluoride DAST in dichloromethane affording compounds of Formula XVI. Reaction of isoxazoline XVI with an appropriate arylmetallic reagent for instance an aryllithium such as 2 4 difluorophenyllithium or the corresponding aryl Grignard reagent at low temperature e.g. 78 C. yields compounds of Formula IX which can be converted into compounds of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 6 and 1.

Scheme 13 refers to the preparation of compounds XXIV. Compounds of Formula XXV formed in analogous fashion to Scheme 7 are subjected to standard ruthenium catalyzed cross metathesis conditions for instance using Grubbs second generation metathesis catalyst in the presence of methyl prop 2 enoate to afford compounds of Formula XXVI. The acetal is cleaved under acidic conditions aqueous HCl as an example to give an aldehyde that is immediately condensed with a hydroxylamine salt such as hydroxylamine sulfate providing a geometric mixture of the corresponding oxime XXVII. Cycloaddition to form isoxazoline XXVIII may be carried out by treatment of oxime XXVII with an oxidizing agent such as sodium hypochlorite or N chlorosuccinimide. Reduction of the methyl ester of isoxazoline XXVIII can be effected through the use of an appropriate reducing agent for instance sodium borohydride to afford a compound of Formula XXIV which can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 12 6 and 1.

Scheme 14 refers to the preparation of chiral homoallyl compounds XII wherein Ris CHOBn. Compounds of Formula XXIX are subjected to treatment with an appropriate alkynyl metallic reagent propynyllithium as an example to afford compounds of Formula XXX. Treatment with an appropriate reducing reagent lithium aluminum hydride as an example affords stereochemically defined compounds of Formula XII which can be converted to compounds of Formula I via Schemes 7 11 3 4 and 1.

Scheme 15 refers to the preparation of racemic compounds XII. Aldehydes of Formula XXXI are treated with an appropriate allylmetallic reagent for instance allylmagnesium bromide to afford alcohols of Formula XII which can be converted to compounds of Formula I via Schemes 7 6 and 1.

The following illustrate the synthesis of various compounds of the present invention. Additional compounds within the scope of this invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in these Examples either alone or in combination with techniques generally known in the art.

Experiments were generally carried out under inert atmosphere nitrogen or argon particularly in cases where oxygen or moisture sensitive reagents or intermediates were employed. Commercial solvents and reagents were generally used without further purification. Anhydrous solvents were employed where appropriate generally AcroSeal products from Acros Organics or DriSolv products from EMD Chemicals. Products were generally dried under vacuum before being carried on to further reactions or submitted for biological testing. Mass spectrometry data is reported from either liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS atmospheric pressure chemical ionization APCI or gas chromatography mass spectrometry GCMS instrumentation. Chemical shifts for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR data are expressed in parts per million ppm referenced to residual peaks from the deuterated solvents employed.

Reactions proceeding through detectable intermediates were generally followed by LCMS and allowed to proceed to full conversion prior to addition of subsequent reagents. For syntheses referencing procedures in other Examples or Methods reaction conditions reaction time and temperature may vary. In general reactions were followed by thin layer chromatography or mass spectrometry and subjected to work up when appropriate. Purifications may vary between experiments in general solvents and the solvent ratios used for eluents gradients were chosen to provide appropriate Rs or retention times.

To a solution of 2R 2 benzyloxy methyl oxirane 167 g 1.02 mol in tetrahydrofuran 2 L was added copper I iodide 11.62 g 61.02 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes then cooled to 78 C. A solution of vinylmagnesium bromide 1 M in tetrahydrofuran 1.12 L 1.12 mol was added drop wise over 1 hour while the reaction temperature was maintained below 70 C. Upon completion of the addition the cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was left to stir at room temperature for 1 hour then quenched by slow addition of aqueous ammonium chloride solution 200 mL . After dilution with aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.5 L and ethyl acetate 1.5 L the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 1 L and the combined organic layers were washed with aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.5 L dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Three batches of this reaction were carried out and combined to give the product as an orange oil. Yield 600 g 3.1 mol quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.40 m 5H 5.78 5.90 m 1H 5.08 5.17 m 2H 4.57 s 2H 3.86 3.94 m 1H 3.53 dd J 9.6 3.3 Hz 1H 3.39 dd J 9.6 7.4 Hz 1H 2.26 2.34 m 3H .

This reaction was carried out in two identical experiments. To a 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 125 g 3.12 mol in tetrahydrofuran 1 L was added a solution of C1 200 g 1.04 mol in tetrahydrofuran 500 mL . The reaction was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature whereupon 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 528 g 2.68 mol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 18 hours. The mixture was carefully quenched with water 2 300 mL and the combined experiments were concentrated in vacuo. The aqueous residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 5 L and water 5 L . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 L dried and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography Eluent 20 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 300 g 0.97 mol 47 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.26 7.37 m 5H 5.78 5.90 m 1H 5.01 5.13 m 2H 4.61 t J 5.3 Hz 1H 4.55 s 2H 3.48 3.74 m 9H 2.30 2.36 m 2H 1.22 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.21 t J 7.0 Hz 3H .

A solution of C2 234 g 0.759 mol in formic acid 400 mL and water 100 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. As LCMS analysis revealed a small amount of remaining starting material formic acid 50 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for a further 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethanol 1 L and water 400 mL . Hydroxylamine sulfate 435 g 2.65 mol and sodium acetate 217 g 2.64 mol were added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 500 mL and water 1 L and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 500 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as an orange oil. By H NMR this material consisted of a roughly 1 1 mixture of oxime isomers. Yield 234 g which was taken directly to the following step. LCMS m z 250.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.52 t J 5.5 Hz and 6.96 t J 3.6 Hz total 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 5.74 5.87 m 1H 5.04 5.14 m 2H 4.55 and 4.56 2 s total 2H 4.45 4.55 m and 4.27 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 5.4 Hz and 4.21 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 5.6 Hz total 2H 2.30 2.37 m 2H .

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 14.5 solution 600 mL was added drop wise to a 0 C. solution of C3 224 g from the previous step 0.726 mol in dichloromethane 1 L while the internal temperature was maintained below 15 C. After completion of the addition the reaction mixture was left to stir at 0 C. for 1.5 hours then diluted with water 1 L and dichloromethane 500 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL water 500 mL and again with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL . They were subsequently dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 25 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a colorless oil. The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C4 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement NOE studies which revealed an interaction between the methine protons on carbons 3a and 5. Yield 85.3 g 345 mmol 45 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 248.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.27 7.40 m 5H 4.77 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.54 4.65 m 3H 4.22 dd J 13.5 1 Hz 1H 3.79 dd J 11.7 8.0 Hz 1H 3.69 3.76 m 1H 3.57 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 5.9 Hz 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 4.3 Hz 1H 3.39 3.5 m 1H 2.20 ddd J 12.9 6.5 1.6 Hz 1H 1.51 1.62 m 1H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 60.1 mL 474 mmol was added to a solution of C4 50.0 g 202 mmol in a 1 1 mixture of toluene and diisopropyl ether 2 L at an internal temperature of 76 C. The reaction was stirred at this temperature for 30 minutes then treated with 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 27.1 mL 226 mmol . While the reaction temperature was maintained at 76 to 71 C. n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 85.7 mL 214 mmol was slowly added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 76 C. for 1.5 hours then quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1 L and partitioned between water 1 L and ethyl acetate 750 mL . After the mixture warmed to room temperature the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 250 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 550 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane gave the product as a yellow oil. Yield 48.14 g 133.2 mmol 66 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 ddd J 9 9 7 Hz 1H 7.28 7.40 m 5H 6.87 6.93 m 1H 6.80 ddd J 12.0 8.6 2.4 Hz 1H 4.60 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 21.4 Hz 2H 4.14 br dd J 12.8 1.3 Hz 1H 3.82 3.90 m 2H 3.72 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 3.54 3.60 m 2H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.3 4.1 Hz 1H 3.04 3.13 m 1H 1.86 ddd J 14.0 7.0 2.0 Hz 1H 1.49 1.61 m 1H .

Compound C5 48.1 g 133 mmol was dissolved in acetic acid 444 mL and treated with zinc powder 113 g 1.73 mol . The reaction mixture which had warmed to 40 C. was allowed to cool to room temperature and stir for 16 hours. Insoluble material was removed via filtration through a pad of diatomaceous earth and the pad was washed with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined filtrates were neutralized with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 2.5 L and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 L dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a thick yellow oil which was used in the following reaction without additional purification. Yield 48.7 g assumed quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.62 7.80 br m 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 6.94 7.06 m 1H 6.83 ddd J 12.7 8.5 2.6 Hz 1H 4.61 AB quartet upfield doublet is broadened J 12.2 Hz 30.5 Hz 2H 4.22 dd J 11.6 2.2 Hz 1H 3.83 3.92 br m 1H 3.62 3.73 br m 1H 3.56 dd J 10.2 3.5 Hz 1H 3.34 3.41 m 1H 2.26 2.43 br m 1H 2.00 2.17 br m 1H 1.65 ddd J 14.1 4.5 2.5 Hz 1H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 17.8 mL 132 mmol was added to a solution of C6 48.7 g 133 mmol in dichloromethane 1.34 L and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 18 hours. Removal of solvent in vacuo afforded the product as a white solid which was used without additional purification. Yield 72.2 g assumed quantitative. LCMS m z 527.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 7.89 7.93 m 2H 7.62 7.67 m 1H 7.50 7.56 m 2H 7.42 7.54 br m 1H 7.31 7.36 m 2H 7.17 7.28 m 3H 6.86 6.98 m 2H 4.57 AB quartet J 11.9 Hz 11.8 Hz 2H 3.84 3.91 m 1H 3.64 br dd half of ABX pattern J 10.6 6.0 Hz 1H 3.58 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.6 3.8 Hz 1H 3.44 3.54 br m 1H 2.32 2.59 br m 1H 1.82 2.06 m 2H .

Pyridine 11.0 mL 137 mmol was added to a solution of C7 19.00 g 36.08 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL and the resulting solution was cooled to 50 to 60 C. Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 12.1 mL 71.9 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was gradually warmed to 5 C. over 3 hours. Water was added and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 20 to 40 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a yellow foam. Yield 15.51 g 30.50 mmol 85 . LCMS m z 509.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.23 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.37 7.57 br m 4H 7.24 7.36 m 5H 6.85 6.97 m 2H 4.58 AB quartet upfield signals are slightly broadened J 11.9 Hz 23.5 Hz 2H 4.17 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.90 3.97 m 1H 3.83 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.64 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 6.4 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.11 3.21 br m 1H 3.02 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.64 br d J 13 Hz 1H 1.92 2.05 br m 1H 1.71 br d J 13 Hz 1H .

Boron trichloride 1 M solution in heptane 89.7 mL 89.7 mmol was added to a 0 C. solution of C8 15.20 g 29.89 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL . After 15 minutes the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. Methanol 50 mL was then added first drop wise Caution violent reaction and then at a steady rate while the interior of the flask was flushed with nitrogen gas. The mixture was heated at reflux for 30 minutes cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was again dissolved in methanol stirred and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting material was taken up in dichloromethane and washed sequentially with 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatographic purification on silica gel Gradient 0 to 3 methanol in ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow foam. Yield 11.97 g 28.60 mmol 96 . LCMS m z 419.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.13 d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.41 7.49 m 3H 7.02 7.11 m 2H 4.13 dd J 11.9 1.8 Hz 1H 3.90 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.72 3.80 m 1H 3.59 d J 5.1 Hz 2H 3.14 3.24 br m 1H 2.96 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.75 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 2.7 Hz 1H 1.80 1.92 m 1H 1.70 ddd J 13.4 4.2 2.4 Hz 1H .

Tetrapropylammonium perruthenate 1.09 g 3.10 mmol was added to a mixture of P1 13.0 g 31.1 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine N oxide monohydrate 25.2 g 186 mmol in acetonitrile 207 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 90 minutes at room temperature. After addition of 2 propanol 100 mL it was stirred for an additional 2 hours and then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and 0.5 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The organic layer was extracted twice with 0.5 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and the combined aqueous layers were acidified to a pH of approximately 1 with 2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid then extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined ethyl acetate layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure the residue was dissolved in dichloromethane washed with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 20 methanol in dichloromethane provided the product as a reddish solid. Yield 12.36 g 28.58 mmol 92 . LCMS m z 433.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.09 8.13 m 2H 7.52 7.57 m 1H 7.43 7.51 m 3H 7.03 7.11 m 2H 4.35 dd J 11.2 3.4 Hz 1H 4.19 dd J 12.0 1.4 Hz 1H 3.97 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.20 3.27 m 1H 2.96 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 4.0 Hz 1H 2.78 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 2.8 Hz 1H 2.03 2.15 m 2H .

Triethylamine 16.7 mL 120 mmol was added in one rapid portion to a solution of P1 4.18 g 10.0 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL that was immersed in a room temperature water bath. After 5 minutes anhydrous dimethyl sulfoxide 9.94 mL 140 mmol was rapidly added followed immediately by solid sulfur trioxide pyridine complex 98 13.0 g 80.0 mmol in a single portion. The resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 6.5 hours then diluted with a 1 1 mixture of water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 200 mL and stirred for 10 minutes. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 200 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with water 100 mL washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane gave the product as a white solid. Yield 2.81 g 6.75 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 414.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.71 s 1H 8.20 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.36 7.49 m 3H 6.86 6.99 m 2H 4.23 br d J 12.1 Hz 1H 4.12 dd J 12.1 2.9 Hz 1H 3.94 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.13 3.22 m 1H 3.04 dd J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 13.1 2.9 Hz 1H 2.02 2.14 m 1H 1.92 1.99 m 1H .

Prop 1 yne was bubbled through a solution of n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 1.06 L 2.65 mol in toluene 5 L at 0 C. for 1.5 hours until a thin suspension was obtained. Diethylaluminum chloride 1 M in hexanes 2.44 L 2.44 mol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours whereupon 2R 2 benzyloxy methyl oxirane 200 g 1.22 mol was added. After 10 minutes the reaction was quenched with water 100 mL and then with aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 2 L . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate concentrated and purified by chromatography on silica gel Gradient 2 to 17 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford the product as a pale brown oil. Yield 250 g 1.22 mol 100 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.41 m 5H 4.58 s 2H 3.89 3.97 s 1H 3.60 dd half of ABX pattern J 9.5 3.9 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 9.5 6.7 Hz 1H 2.50 br s 1H 2.38 2.43 m 2H 1.79 t J 2.6 Hz 3H .

Lithium aluminum hydride 93 g 2.4 mol was gradually added portion wise to a 10 20 C. solution of C9 167 g 0.818 mol in 1 2 dimethoxyethane 2.2 L and the reaction was heated at 100 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and was then quenched with ice followed by aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 2 L at 10 20 C. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated affording the product as a pale brown oil. This material was used for the next step without further purification. Yield 160 g 0.78 mol 95 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.27 7.41 m 5H 5.49 5.60 m 1H 5.39 5.49 m 1H 4.56 s 2H 3.80 3.88 m 1H 3.51 dd half of ABX pattern J 9.5 3.4 Hz 1H 3.39 dd half of ABX pattern J 9.3 1.9 Hz 1H 2.4 br s 1H 2.16 2.24 m 2H 1.66 1.70 m 3H .

To a 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 93 g 2.3 mol in tetrahydrofuran 1.6 L was slowly added C10 160 g 0.78 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour. 2 Bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 460 g 2.33 mol was added to the cold mixture which was then heated at reflux for 16 hours. The reaction was carefully quenched by addition of water 1 L and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to provide the product as a brown oil which was used for the next step without purification. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.24 7.38 m 5H 5.37 5.54 m 2H 4.54 s 2H 2.19 2.30 m 2H 1.64 br d J 5 Hz 3H .

To a solution of crude C11 from the previous step 0.78 mol in tetrahydrofuran 1.5 L was added aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 850 mL 1.7 mol at 25 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hour. After it had cooled to room temperature it was saturated with solid sodium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 1 L dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to afford the product as a pale brown oil which was used for the next step without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 9.72 br s 

To a solution of crude C12 from the previous step 0.78 mol in a mixture of ethanol and water 2 1 2.1 L was added sodium acetate 472 g 5.75 mol followed by hydroxylamine hydrochloride 238 g 3.42 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 16 hours then concentrated to remove ethanol and extracted with dichloromethane 2 L . The combined organic layers were washed sequentially with saturated aqueous sodium carbonate solution 2 1 L and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 L dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 2 to 17 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a pale yellow oil. Yield 105 g 0.399 mol 51 over three steps.

Aqueous sodium hypochlorite 6.15 1 L was slowly added to a mixture of C13 100 g 0.38 mol and triethylamine 2.9 g 28.6 mmol in dichloromethane 2 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 1 hour then washed with water 5 2 L dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 2 to 17 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 58 g 0.22 mol 58 .

Additional purification could be carried out via recrystallization. To a solution of C14 174 g at reflux in tert butyl methyl ether 135 mL was added heptane 430 mL until a thin cloudy mixture was obtained. This was allowed to slowly cool to 25 C. and then kept motionless for 16 hours. The resulting precipitate was collected via filtration and washed with heptane 100 mL to provide a white solid 142 g this was recrystallized again in the same manner to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 

102 g 59 . LCMS m z 262.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.26 7.39 m 5H 4.70 d J 13.7 Hz 1H 4.58 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 13.2 Hz 2H 4.14 4.25 m 2H 3.63 3.71 m 1H 3.56 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 5.9 Hz 1H 3.48 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 4.3 Hz 1H 2.93 ddd J 11.3 11.2 6.7 Hz 1H 2.12 ddd J 12.8 6.6 1.2 Hz 1H 1.46 d J 6.2 Hz 3H 1.45 1.57 m 1H .

A solution of 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 30 mL 250 mmol in a 10 1 mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran 191 mL was cooled to 70 C. and treated drop wise with n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 90 mL 220 mmol over 30 minutes. After the reaction mixture had stirred at 70 C. for an additional 30 minutes boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 28 mL 230 mmol and a solution of C14 30 g 110 mmol in a 10 1 mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran 574 mL were simultaneously added drop wise over 30 minutes. At this point the reaction was quenched via addition of aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a dark yellow oil. Yield 39.4 g 105 mmol 95 . LCMS m z 376.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.98 ddd J 9.2 9.0 6.8 Hz 1H 7.29 7.40 m 5H 6.90 dddd J 8.9 7.9 2.5 1.0 Hz 1H 6.80 ddd J 11.9 8.6 2.5 Hz 1H 4.60 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 19.9 Hz 2H 4.03 qd J 6.4 2.5 Hz 1H 3.97 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.9 2.0 Hz 1H 3.81 3.88 m 2H 3.56 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 6.2 Hz 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.1 Hz 1H 2.81 2.87 m 1H 2.04 ddd J 14.2 7.5 2.9 Hz 1H 1.49 1.60 m 1H 0.79 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of C15 39.4 g 105 mmol in acetic acid 379 mL was added zinc dust 89.2 g 1.36 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The zinc was removed via filtration through diatomaceous earth and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and partitioned between ethyl acetate and aqueous 1 M sodium hydroxide solution. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a colorless oil. Yield 32.6 g 86.4 mmol 82 . LCMS m z 378.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.67 ddd J 9 9 6.5 Hz 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 6.89 6.97 m 1H 6.81 ddd J 12.6 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 4.61 AB quartet J 12.2 Hz 22.2 Hz 2H 4.06 dd J 11.5 2.4 Hz 1H 3.76 3.84 m 1H 3.66 3.74 m 1H 3.60 br dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 6.3 Hz 1H 3.53 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 3.8 Hz 1H 3.32 br d J 11 Hz 1H 2.52 ddd J 12.6 4.5 4.5 Hz 1H 1.70 1.83 m 1H 1.61 ddd J 13.9 4.7 2.6 Hz 1H 0.87 d J 6.6 Hz 3H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 98 13.1 mL 95.5 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of C16 36.4 g 96.4 mmol in dichloromethane 964 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 18 hours. LCMS indicated formation of the acyl thiourea intermediate LCMS m z 541.2 M H . 1 Chloro N N 2 trimethylprop 1 en 1 amine Ghosez s reagent 96 33.2 mL 241 mmol was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. It was then diluted with aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 20 to 40 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white foam. Yield 40.0 g 76.5 mmol 79 . LCMS m z 523.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 6.84 6.96 m 2H 4.58 AB quartet J 12.0 Hz 24.7 Hz 2H 4.15 4.21 m 1H 3.86 3.94 m 1H 3.84 d J 12 Hz 1H 3.63 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 6.3 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.22 3.33 br m 1H 2.87 2.98 br m 1H 1.25 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

Compound C17 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of P1 in Preparation P1. In this case rather than chromatographic purification the crude product was triturated with dichloromethane and heptane to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 14.3 g 33.1 mmol 92 . LCMS m z 433.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.12 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.51 7.57 m 1H 7.40 7.49 m 3H 7.02 7.11 m 2H 4.15 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.91 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 3.71 3.78 m 1H 3.60 d J 5.2 Hz 2H 3.19 3.28 br m 1H 2.97 3.05 br m 1H 1.74 1.82 m 1H 1.50 1.62 m 1H 1.26 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

Tetrapropylammonium perruthenate 2.50 g 7.11 mmol was added in four equal portions to a mixture of P4 32.4 g 75.0 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine N oxide monohydrate 50.0 g 370 mmol in acetonitrile 200 mL . An exotherm occurred the reaction flask was cooled in an ice methanol slurry as needed and stirred for 2 hours. 2 Propanol 125 mL was added and stirring was continued for 1 hour at room temperature. After removal of solvent in vacuo the residue was partitioned between dichloromethane 700 mL and aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 500 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 300 mL and the combined organic layers were extracted with aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 0.25 M 3 600 mL . The combined aqueous layers were adjusted to pH 1 2 with 5 M aqueous hydrochloric acid and then extracted with dichloromethane 3 650 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 89 10 1 dichloromethane methanol acetic acid in dichloromethane provided material that was then co concentrated with toluene 3 50 mL . The resulting solid was partitioned between dichloromethane 200 mL and aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 0.25 M 600 mL . The organic layer was extracted with additional aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 0.25 M 100 mL and the combined aqueous layers were adjusted to pH 1 2 with 5 M aqueous hydrochloric acid. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 500 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as an off white granular solid. Yield 30.6 g 68.5 mmol 91 . LCMS m z 447.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.10 8.15 m 2H 7.55 7.61 m 1H 7.47 7.53 m 2H 7.32 7.44 m 2H 7.22 ddd J 8.5 8.5 2.5 Hz 1H 4.28 dd J 11.8 2.4 Hz 1H 4.01 br AB quartet J 12 Hz 12 Hz 2H 3.06 3.16 m 1H 2.95 3.04 m 1H 1.99 2.07 m 1H 1.53 1.66 m 1H 1.21 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

This reaction was carried out in 10 batches. To a solution of C2 10 g 32 mmol in dichloromethane 400 mL was added 1 3 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl 2 imidazolidinylidene dichloro phenylmethylene tricyclohexylphosphine ruthenium Grubbs 2 generation catalyst 1.38 g 1.62 mmol and methyl prop 2 enoate 69.7 g 0.81 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified via silica gel chromatography Eluent 3 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate to provide the product as a yellow oil. Combined yield 70 g 0.19 mol 59 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.27 7.38 m 5H 6.94 7.04 m 1H 5.89 br d J 15.6 Hz 1H 4.58 dd J 5.3 5.0 Hz 1H 4.54 s 2H 3.73 s 3H 3.44 3.7 m 9H 2.41 2.55 m 2H 1.21 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.20 t J 7.0 Hz 3H .

This reaction was carried out in 13 batches. Aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 27 mL 27 mmol was added to a solution of C18 10 g 27 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 20 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. Hydroxylamine hydrochloride 3.8 g 55 mmol was added and stirring was continued for 18 hours. After concentration in vacuo the aqueous residues from the various batches were combined and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated providing the product as a yellow oil. This material was used in the next step without further purification. Combined yield 110 g assumed quantitative.

To a solution of C19 110 g from the previous step 0.35 mol in dichloromethane 500 mL was added triethylamine 2.7 g 27 mmol . Aqueous sodium hypochlorite 6 1.5 L 1.2 mol was then added at a rate such that the internal reaction temperature remained between 20 C. and 25 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 20 25 C. for 20 minutes whereupon it was partitioned between water 500 mL and dichloromethane 500 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated silica gel chromatography Eluent 3 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 65 g 0.21 mol 60 over 2 steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.28 7.40 m 5H 4.75 d J 13.3 Hz 1H 4.56 4.63 m 3H 4.22 dd J 13.4 1.0 Hz 1H 3.83 s 3H 3.58 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 5.6 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 2.30 br dd J 13 6.5 Hz 1H 1.64 1.75 m 1H .

This reaction was carried out in 5 batches. A solution of C20 13 g 42 mmol in ethanol 90 mL and tetrahydrofuran 180 mL was cooled to 0 C. Sodium borohydride 2.4 g 63 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 100 mL and concentrated in vacuo. The aqueous residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 300 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Chromatography on silica gel Eluent 3 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Combined yield 50 g 180 mmol 86 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.27 7.39 m 5H 4.71 d J 13.4 Hz 1H 4.58 AB quartet J 12.2 Hz 11.8 Hz 2H 4.24 4.29 m 1H 4.21 dd J 13.4 1.1 Hz 1H 3.96 4.03 m 1H 3.68 3.77 m 2H 3.57 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 5.8 Hz 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 4.3 Hz 1H 3.38 3.47 m 1H 2.15 ddd J 12.9 6.7 1.5 Hz 1H 1.83 1.89 m 1H 1.6 1.67 m 1H .

This reaction was carried out in 10 batches. To a 70 C. solution of C21 5.0 g 18 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL was added diethylamino sulfur trifluoride 11.6 g 72.0 mmol the reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 2 hours then warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 500 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 300 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography Eluent 5 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Combined yield 12.6 g 45.1 mmol 25 . LCMS m z 280.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.41 m 5H 4.51 4.76 m 5H 4.30 4.42 m 1H 4.22 dd J 13.4 1.1 Hz 1H 3.69 3.77 m 1H 3.58 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.0 5.8 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.32 3.42 m 1H 2.19 br dd J 13 7 Hz 1H 1.60 1.71 m 1H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 12.7 mL 103 mmol was added to a 78 C. solution of 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 12.6 mL 105 mmol in a 10 1 mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran 250 mL . n Butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 40 mL 100 mmol was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 minutes. A solution of C22 14 g 50 mmol in minimal 10 1 toluene tetrahydrofuran was added and stirring was continued at 78 C. for 15 minutes. At this point the reaction mixture was poured into aqueous ammonium chloride solution the aqueous layer was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with water washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an oil. Yield 18 g 46 mmol 92 . LCMS m z 394.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 ddd J 9.1 9.0 6.7 Hz 1H 7.29 7.41 m 5H 6.88 6.94 m 1H 6.82 ddd J 11.9 8.6 2.5 Hz 1H 6.42 br s 1H 4.61 AB quartet J 12.2 Hz 13.7 Hz 2H 4.11 4.20 m 1H 4.01 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.9 2.0 Hz 1H 3.81 3.91 3.73 3.80 and 3.63 3.68 multiplets total 4H 3.58 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 6.0 Hz 1H 3.51 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.2 Hz 1H 3.09 3.17 m 1H 2.07 ddd J 14.1 7.5 2.2 Hz 1H 1.57 1.69 m 1H .

Compound C23 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of C16 in Preparation P4. In this case no chromatographic purification was carried out. Yield 15.6 g 39.4 mmol 86 . LCMS m z 396.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.73 ddd J 9.1 9.0 6.5 Hz 1H 7.26 7.40 m 5H 6.96 7.02 m 1H 6.92 ddd J 12.8 8.9 2.6 Hz 1H 4.59 s 2H 4.11 4.15 and 3.99 4.06 multiplets total 2H 3.90 ddd J 48.2 9.5 7.0 Hz 1H 3.64 3.79 m 2H 3.63 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.4 5.7 Hz 1H 3.58 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.4 3.9 Hz 1H 3.39 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 2.73 ddd J 12.8 4.4 4.3 Hz 1H 1.79 1.91 m 1H 1.64 ddd J 13.7 4.2 2.6 Hz 1H .

Compound C24 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of C7 in Preparation P1. In this case silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a solid. Yield 18.7 g 33.5 mmol 85 .

To a solution of C25 7.50 g 13.4 mmol in dichloromethane 180 mL was added 1 chloro N N 2 trimethylprop 1 en 1 amine 8.83 mL 20.1 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 2 hours. It was then partitioned between dichloromethane and water the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a solid. By H NMR analysis some reagent derived material was still present. Corrected yield 3.86 g 7.14 mmol 53 . LCMS m z 541.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl product peaks only characteristic peaks 8.20 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.51 7.57 m 1H 7.43 7.49 m 2H 7.34 7.42 m 1H 7.23 7.34 m 5H 6.86 6.98 m 2H 4.57 AB quartet J 11.9 Hz 18.1 Hz 2H 4.45 4.66 and 4.33 4.39 multiplets total 2H 4.19 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.82 3.94 m 2H 3.63 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 6.2 Hz 1H 3.5 3.57 m 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.21 3.29 m 1H .

A solution of C26 13.8 g 25.5 mmol in dichloromethane 130 mL was cooled to 0 C. Boron trichloride 1 M solution in toluene 76.6 mL 76.6 mmol was added in a rapid drop wise manner at a rate such that the temperature of the reaction mixture remained at 

Compound P6 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of P5 in Example P5. The product was obtained as a solid. Yield 9.9 g 21 mmol 74 . LCMS m z 465.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl obtained from a similar reaction carried out on small scale 110 mg P6 80 yield 9.09 v br s 2H 8.07 8.12 m 2H 7.52 7.58 m 1H 7.46 br dd J 8 7 Hz 2H 7.32 ddd J 8.9 8.9 6.2 Hz 1H 6.85 6.98 m 2H 4.35 4.66 m 2H 4.08 4.20 m 2H 4.03 d half of AB quartet J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.43 3.52 m 1H 3.22 ddd J 12.0 3.9 3.8 Hz 1H 2.06 2.14 m 1H 1.84 1.97 m 1H .

Triethylamine 0.817 mL 5.86 mmol was added rapidly to a solution of P6 660 mg 1.46 mmol in dichloromethane 29 mL . After 5 minutes anhydrous dimethyl sulfoxide 468 L 6.59 mmol was rapidly added followed immediately by solid sulfur trioxide pyridine complex 98 654 mg 4.03 mmol in a single portion. The resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 3.5 hours then diluted with a 1 1 mixture of water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and stirred for 10 minutes. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were washed with water until the pH of the aqueous wash was pH 6 7. The organic layer was then washed twice with 0.2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 75 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a solid. Yield 0.54 g 1.2 mmol 82 . LCMS m z 449.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.69 s 1H 8.14 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.50 7.57 m 1H 7.46 br dd J 8 7 Hz 2H 7.36 ddd J 9.0 8.8 6.2 Hz 1H 6.86 6.98 m 2H 4.35 4.67 m 2H 4.23 br d J 12 Hz 1H 4.06 4.12 m 1H 3.97 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.46 3.56 m 1H 3.25 ddd J 12.0 4.0 3.9 Hz 1H 1.97 ddd J 13.5 3.5 3.5 Hz 1H 1.74 1.86 m 1H .

Lithium diisopropylamide 2.0 M in heptane tetrahydrofuran ethylbenzene 3.30 mL 6.60 mmol was added drop wise to a 75 C. solution of 3 iodo 1 methyl 1H pyrazole 97 1.29 g 6.02 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 25 mL . After 5 minutes N fluoro N phenylsulfonyl benzenesulfonamide 97 2.60 g 8.00 mmol was added to the cold solution in one portion. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 0 C. over 30 minutes and was then quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 25 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 15 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a pale yellow oil. Yield 435 mg 1.92 mmol 32 . GCMS m z 226 M . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.93 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 3.74 d J 1.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of P2 3.0 g 6.9 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 80 mL and acetic acid 15 mL was added lead IV acetate 19.3 g 43.5 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 18 hours the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane affording the product as a white solid. Yield 1.38 g 3.09 mmol 45 . LCMS m z 445.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.21 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.36 7.49 m 3H 6.87 6.98 m 2H 6.31 br d J 3 Hz 1H 4.55 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.59 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.44 3.52 m 1H 3.05 dd J 13.0 4.2 Hz 1H 2.63 dd J 13.0 2.8 Hz 1H 2.38 2.48 m 1H 2.19 s 3H 1.80 br dd J 14 4 Hz 1H .

The reaction was carried out in two batches. To a solution of C28 2.5 g 5.6 mmol 1.66 g 3.72 mmol in acetonitrile 25 mL 15 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid 6 mL 4 mL at room temperature followed by pyridinium chlorochromate 6.02 g 28 mmol 3.98 g 18.5 mmol in one portion. The resulting reaction mixtures were stirred at room temperature for 3.5 hours then combined and poured slowly into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 350 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 400 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a white foam containing residual dichloromethane. Corrected yield 2.51 g 6.24 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 403.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.03 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.56 7.62 m 1H 7.47 7.54 m 2H 7.31 7.39 m 1H 6.88 6.99 m 2H 4.90 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 4.29 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 3.39 3.48 m 1H 2.94 3.05 m 2H 2.84 dd half of ABX pattern J 18.5 7.6 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 13.2 3.1 Hz 1H .

A mixture of C29 2.51 g 6.24 mmol this material had been azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL and N 5 chloropyridin 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluoro N trifluoromethyl sulfonyl methane sulfonamide Comins reagent 96 10.2 g 24.9 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL was cooled to 78 C. Potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide 0.5 M solution in toluene 62.4 mL 31.2 mmol was added drop wise over 20 minutes and the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1.1 hours after addition of aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 mL it was allowed to warm to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 75 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a pale yellow solid. Yield 2.43 g 4.55 mmol 73 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 br d J 8 Hz 2H 7.55 7.60 m 1H 7.49 br dd J 8 7 Hz 2H 7.39 ddd J 9 9 6.4 Hz 1H 6.94 7.00 m 1H 6.90 ddd J 12.4 8.4 2.6 Hz 1H 4.82 d J 10.7 Hz 1H 4.77 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 4.17 d J 10.7 Hz 1H 3.63 3.69 m 1H 2.97 dd J 13.3 3.1 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 13.3 4.3 Hz 1H .

Compound C27 73.0 mg 0.323 mmol C30 121 mg 0.226 mmol and hexabutyldistannane 130 L 0.257 mmol were combined in N N dimethylformamide 0.8 mL in a vial containing a micro stir bar. The vial was vacuum purged and back filled with nitrogen three times. Benzyl chloro bis triphenylphosphine palladium II 10 mg 26 mol was added and the purging back filling process was carried out twice. The reaction mixture was then stirred at 120 C. for 15 minutes. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 15 mL and filtered through a nylon disc. The filtrate was washed with water 2 7 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as an amber solid. Yield 43 mg 89 mol 39 . LCMS m z 485.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.11 br d J 8 Hz 2H 7.47 7.55 m 2H 7.39 7.45 m 2H 6.93 6.99 m 1H 6.89 ddd J 12.3 8.4 2.6 Hz 1H 5.88 d J 5.8 Hz 1H 5.34 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4.75 br d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.18 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 3.72 d J 1.2 Hz 3H 3.66 3.71 m 1H 3.06 dd J 13.2 3.3 Hz 1H 2.78 dd J 13.2 4.7 Hz 1H .

Triethylsilane 0.10 mL 0.63 mmol and trifluoroacetic acid 25 L 0.32 mmol were added to a 0 C. solution of C31 32 mg 66 mol in dichloromethane 1.2 mL and the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 1 hour. Additional triethylsilane and trifluoroacetic acid were periodically added while monitoring the progress of the reaction by LCMS. After addition of a total of 66 equivalents of triethylsilane and 38 equivalents of trifluoroacetic acid the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 15 hours then concentrated under a stream of nitrogen and partitioned between dichloromethane 15 mL and saturated aqueous sodium carbonate solution 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 5 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as an off white solid. The indicated stereochemistry was supported by NOE studies showing an interaction between the protons at carbons 4a and 6. Yield 24 mg 49 mol 74 . LCMS m z 487.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.49 7.55 m 1H 7.39 7.48 m 3H 6.86 6.98 m 2H 5.80 d J 5.7 Hz 1H 4.69 dd J 11.6 2.4 Hz 1H 4.30 dd J 12.2 1.7 Hz 1H 3.91 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.70 d J 1.2 Hz 3H 3.22 3.30 m 1H 3.05 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 12.9 2.8 Hz 1H 2.27 2.39 m 1H 1.95 2.03 m 1H .

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU 4.0 L 27 mol was added to a solution of C32 17 mg 35 mol in methanol 0.75 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 50 C. for 18 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 2 mL and ethyl acetate 5 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 5 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product as an off white solid 12 mg . This was combined with the crude product 5 mg from a similar reaction carried out on C32 6.3 mg 13 mol and subjected to purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 17.5 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 11.7 mg 30.0 mol 62 . LCMS m z 383.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.40 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.6 Hz 1H 6.85 6.91 m 1H 6.81 ddd J 12.4 8.5 2.6 Hz 1H 5.81 d J 5.7 Hz 1H 4.64 dd J 11.7 2.4 Hz 1H 4.21 dd J 11.2 2.3 Hz 1H 3.94 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 3.72 d J 1.2 Hz 3H 2.97 3.07 m 2H 2.62 2.68 m 1H 2.13 2.24 m 1H 1.78 1.85 m 1H .

 4a R 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 2 

Acetic anhydride 1.5 mL 16 mmol was added to a slurry of P3 661 mg 1.59 mmol and potassium carbonate 1.34 g 9.70 mmol in acetonitrile 16 mL . After the flask had been flushed with nitrogen the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 2.5 hours then allowed to cool to room temperature and stir for 18 hours. The slurry was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered the solids were washed with ethyl acetate and the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. Purification using silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid which was assigned via H NMR as a roughly 4 1 mixture of geometric isomers. Yield 437 mg 0.953 mmol 60 . LCMS m z 459.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl peaks from major isomer only 8.09 8.32 br s 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.39 7.45 m 3H 6.85 6.99 m 2H 6.75 d J 1.9 Hz 1H 4.31 dd J 11.7 1.2 Hz 1H 4.02 d J 11.8 Hz 1H 3.13 3.26 m 1H 2.97 3.07 m 1H 2.70 2.87 m 2H 2.19 s 3H 2.17 2.25 m 1H .

A solution of C33 430 mg 0.938 mmol ruthenium III chloride 5.8 mg 28 mol and sodium periodate 98.5 407 mg 1.87 mmol in acetonitrile 0.5 mL and a 1 1 mixture of 1 2 dichloroethane and water 5 mL was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature then allowed to stand for 18 hours without stirring. After dilution with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution 25 mL the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 237 mg 0.589 mmol 63 . LCMS m z 403.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 br d J 8 Hz 2H 7.49 7.54 m 1H 7.43 br dd J 8 7 Hz 2H 7.32 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.3 Hz 1H 6.81 6.93 m 2H 4.85 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 4.24 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.35 3.44 m 1H 2.87 2.97 m 2H 2.80 dd half of ABX pattern J 18.7 7.5 Hz 1H 2.63 dd J 13.1 3.1 Hz 1H .

A solution of 2 bromo 5 fluoropyridine 355 mg 2.02 mmol in toluene 10 mL was cooled to 78 C. n Butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 790 L 1.98 mmol was added drop wise over 5 minutes and stirring was continued at 78 C. for 50 minutes. After addition of a solution of C29 162 mg 403 mol in toluene 1 mL the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 1.5 hours at 78 C. whereupon it was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 20 mL and allowed to warm to room temperature. Ethyl acetate 20 mL was added and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 90 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an off white solid. By H NMR analysis this was tentatively assigned as a mixture of epimers at the hydroxyl group. Yield 120 mg 240 mol 60 . LCMS m z 500.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks of major epimer 8.38 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 8.28 br d J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.61 dd J 8.7 4.4 Hz 1H 7.52 7.57 m 1H 4.89 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.76 3.84 m 1H 3.68 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.12 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.67 dd J 13.0 2.8 Hz 1H 2.43 2.52 m 1H 1.88 dd J 13.4 4.2 Hz 1H characteristic peaks of minor epimer 8.32 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.67 dd J 9 4 Hz 1H 4.94 dd J 9.5 2 Hz 1H 4.64 d J 9 Hz 1H 2.89 2.96 m 1H 2.71 2.77 m 1H 2.21 2.28 m 1H .

A mixture of C34 56.7 mg 114 mol trifluoroacetic acid 1.0 mL and 1 2 dichloroethane 1.0 mL was stirred at 42 C. for 5.5 hours and then at 38 C. for 18 hours. After removal of solvents in vacuo the residue was partitioned between aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 4 mL and ethyl acetate 5 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with additional ethyl acetate 3 5 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 90 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 42 mg 87 mol 76 . NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 8.38 br d J 2.9 Hz 1H 8.00 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.70 dd J 9.0 4.4 Hz 1H 7.47 7.63 m 3H 7.41 br dd J 7.7 7.3 Hz 2H 7.03 7.11 m 2H 5.98 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4.78 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.33 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 3.06 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 3.3 Hz 1H 2.95 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.3 4.6 Hz 1H .

A mixture of C35 43 mg 90 mol and palladium hydroxide 20 on carbon wet 50 mg in methanol 10 mL was shaken vigorously at 40 C. under hydrogen 45 psi for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered through diatomaceous earth and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Starting material C35 was also isolated as a white solid 16 mg . Yield corrected for recovered starting material 6.5 mg 13 mol 23 . LCMS m z 484.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 8.39 8.41 m 1H 8.13 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.45 br dd J 8 7 Hz 2H 7.05 7.15 m 2H 4.35 dd J 11.9 1.7 Hz 1H 4.08 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.01 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 4.1 Hz 1H 2.81 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 2.9 Hz 1H 2.12 2.20 m 1H 1.98 2.10 m 1H .

A mixture of C36 16 mg 33 mol and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 5.0 L 33 mol in methanol 2 mL was heated at 63 C. for 18 hours. After removal of solvent in vacuo silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 8.7 mg 23 mol 70 . LCMS m z 380.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.38 8.40 m 1H 7.61 7.65 m 2H 7.40 ddd J 9.6 8.8 6.6 Hz 1H 6.96 7.05 m 2H 4.76 dd J 11.4 2.8 Hz 1H 4.29 dd J 11.2 2.0 Hz 1H 3.89 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.08 3.16 m 1H 2.94 dd J 12.6 4.2 Hz 1H 2.72 2.77 m 1H 1.97 2.04 m 1H 1.86 1.97 m 1H .

The product was synthesized from C29 using the method described for preparation of C35 in Example 2 except that 5 bromo 2 methoxypyridine was used instead of 2 bromo 5 fluoropyridine and the first step was carried out in tetrahydrofuran instead of toluene. The product was obtained as a white solid. LCMS m z 494.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.40 dd J 2.5 0.6 Hz 1H 8.08 8.13 m 2H 7.75 dd J 8.7 2.5 Hz 1H 7.46 7.54 m 2H 7.38 7.43 m 2H 6.94 7.00 m 1H 6.91 ddd J 12.3 8.4 2.5 Hz 1H 6.69 dd J 8.7 0.8 Hz 1H 5.16 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4.78 br d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.20 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.93 s 3H 3.69 3.74 br m 1H 3.08 d J 13.2 3.2 Hz 1H 2.79 dd J 13.2 4.6 Hz 1H .

Ammonium formate 97 32 mg 0.49 mmol was added to a mixture of C37 116 mg 0.235 mmol and palladium hydroxide 20 on carbon wet 200 mg in methanol 10 mL and the reaction mixture was vigorously shaken at 40 C. under hydrogen 45 psi for 24 hours. Additional palladium hydroxide 50 mg was added and hydrogenation was continued at 40 C. for an additional 24 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered through diatomaceous earth and the filter pad was washed sequentially with methanol dichloromethane and ethyl acetate the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the product. Starting material C37 17 mg was also isolated. Yield corrected for recovered starting material 30 mg 60 mol 30 . LCMS m z 496.3 M H .

Iodomethane 0.05 mL 0.8 mmol was added to a solution of C38 35.2 mg 71.0 mol in acetonitrile 0.8 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 45 C. for 30 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the crude product was used directly in the following reaction. Yield 35 mg assumed quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.23 br d J 8 Hz 2H 6.87 6.99 m 2H 4.51 br d J 11 Hz 1H 4.26 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.05 dd J 13.0 4.0 Hz 1H 2.71 dd J 13.1 2.6 Hz 1H 1.87 1.94 m 1H .

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 7.0 L 50 mol was added to a solution of C39 from the previous step 35 mg 71 mol in methanol 1 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 18 hours. Purification via reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 20 to 50 B afforded the product as a solid. Yield 7.0 mg 18 mol 25 over two steps. LCMS m z 392.1 M H . H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 7.61 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.34 7.40 m 2H 7.18 7.24 m 1H 7.11 ddd J 8.5 8.4 2.5 Hz 1H 6.39 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 6.12 br s 2H 4.41 br d J 11 Hz 1H 4.03 dd J 10.7 2 Hz 1H 3.65 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 3.42 s 3H 2.80 2.85 m 1H 2.76 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.5 4.0 Hz 1H 2.68 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.7 2.8 Hz 1H 1.80 1.89 m 1H 1.68 1.74 m 1H .

 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyrimidin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine hydrochloride salt 4 

To a solution of P2 580 mg 1.34 mmol in dichloromethane 7 mL was added oxalyl chloride 0.253 mL 2.95 mmol drop wise followed by N N dimethylformamide 16 L 0.21 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes then concentrated in vacuo. This material was used directly in the following step. Yield 600 mg 1.33 mmol 99 . LCMS m z 447.1 M H for corresponding methyl ester due to reaction of acid chloride with methanol in the LCMS eluent . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.39 8.43 m 2H 7.66 7.71 m 1H 7.50 7.62 m 3H 7.04 7.10 m 1H 6.95 ddd J 12.7 8.0 2.5 Hz 1H 4.51 dd J 11.8 2.5 Hz 1H 4.46 d J 12.9 Hz 1H 4.18 dd J 12.8 1.3 Hz 1H 3.36 3.44 m 1H 3.09 dd J 13.6 3.7 Hz 1H 2.85 dd J 13.7 3.2 Hz 1H 2.36 ddd J 13.7 4.5 2.5 Hz 1H 2.10 2.21 m 1H .

Compound C40 from the preceding step 600 mg 1.33 mmol was dissolved in a 1 1 mixture of tetrahydrofuran and acetonitrile 7 mL and added to a 0 C. solution of diazomethyl trimethyl silane 2 M in 1 1 tetrahydrofuran acetonitrile 2.33 mL 4.66 mmol . After 2.5 hours aqueous hydrobromic acid 48 1.51 mL 13.3 mmol was added drop wise. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes then quenched via addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 40 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a solid. Yield 330 mg 0.648 mmol 49 . LCMS m z 509.0 511.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.19 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.48 7.54 m 1H 7.34 7.47 m 3H 6.85 6.97 m 2H 4.26 AB quartet J 14.1 Hz 44.1 Hz 2H 3.11 3.19 m 1H 3.00 dd J 13.1 3.9 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 13.0 2.8 Hz 1H 2.04 2.17 m 2H .

To a solution of C41 35 mg 69 mol in ethanol 0.69 mL was added 2 aminopyrimidine 26.2 mg 0.276 mmol and the reaction was stirred at 100 C. for 3 hours then concentrated in vacuo. This material was used directly in the following step. Yield 34 mg 67 mol 97 . LCMS m z 506.2 M H .

A solution of C42 34 mg 67 mol and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 13.3 L 84.0 mol in methanol 1.34 mL was heated at 70 C. for 18 hours then concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane provided the free base of the product which was then dissolved in dichloromethane and treated with excess hydrogen chloride 1 M in diethyl ether to provide the product. Yield 25.6 mg 58.3 mol 87 . LCMS m z 402.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks for free base 8.98 dd J 6.6 1.2 Hz 1H 8.53 dd J 3.9 1.6 Hz 1H 7.99 s 1H 7.40 7.46 m 1H 6.89 7.00 m 3H 5.04 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 4.24 4.31 m 2H 2.94 3.20 m 2H 2.37 q J 12.2 Hz 1H .

A suspension of methoxymethyl triphenyl phosphonium chloride 4.73 g 13.8 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 65 mL was cooled in an ice bath. Potassium tert butoxide 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran 12.0 mL 12.0 mmol was added slowly at a rate that kept the internal reaction temperature below 5 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 5 minutes at an internal temperature of 2 5 C. allowed to warm to room temperature over 15 minutes and subsequently cooled in an ice bath. A solution of P3 1.57 g 3.77 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was added over 2 minutes while keeping the internal temperature under 6 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 15 minutes under ice cooling allowed to warm to room temperature over 20 minutes and then cooled to an internal temperature of 12 C. whereupon it was quenched via addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 75 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of a roughly equimolar mixture of E and Z isomers at the enol ether. Yield 1.33 g 2.99 mmol 79 . LCMS m z 445.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.24 br d J 8 Hz 2H 7.48 7.55 m 1H 7.37 7.48 m 3H 6.84 6.97 m 2H 6.69 d J 12.8 Hz and 5.99 dd J 6.2 0.7 Hz total 1H 4.86 dd J 12.7 8.1 Hz and 4.55 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.0 6.3 Hz total 1H 4.60 4.68 m and 4.06 4.14 m total 1H 4.16 4.23 m 1H 3.76 3.84 m 1H 3.55 and 3.66 2 s total 3H 3.14 3.23 m 1H 2.97 3.05 m 1H 2.60 2.67 m 1H 1.97 2.19 m 1H 1.66 1.75 m 1H .

Trimethyl orthoformate 167 L 1.52 mmol was added to an ice cooled solution of C43 331 mg 0.745 mmol in dichloromethane 1.5 mL . Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 95.0 L 0.756 mmol was then added drop wise while keeping the internal temperature below 3.5 C. After 1.5 hours under ice cooling the reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane 15 mL and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 15 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as an off white foam like solid. Yield 381 mg 0.692 mmol 93 . LCMS m z 551.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 4.56 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 4.52 d J 3.7 Hz 1H 4.14 br d J 12 Hz 1H 4.03 4.09 m 1H 3.79 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.44 s 3H 3.41 s 3H 3.40 s 3H 3.36 s 3H 2.95 3.01 m 1H 2.62 2.69 m 1H 2.22 2.33 m 1H 2.12 2.17 m 1H 1.74 1.80 m 1H .

 2 2 2 Trifluoroethyl hydrazine 70 in water 25.0 L 0.20 mmol was added to a mixture of C44 60 mg 0.11 mmol in methanol 200 L and water 100 L . Concentrated sulfuric acid 13 L 0.24 mmol was then added followed by additional methanol 200 L the reaction mixture was then heated to 60 C. for 18 hours during which time the initial gel became a solution. The reaction mixture was partitioned between water 5 mL and dichloromethane 2 mL and the aqueous layer was adjusted to a pH of 8 9 by drop wise addition of 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 13.7 mg 31.7 mol 29 . LCMS m z 433.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.59 s 1H 7.55 s 1H 7.38 ddd J 9.0 8.8 6.9 Hz 1H 6.86 6.92 m 1H 6.82 ddd J 12.5 8.5 2.4 Hz 1H 4.63 4.73 m 3H 4.23 dd J 11.1 2.0 Hz 1H 3.87 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 2.98 3.06 m 2H 2.61 2.68 m 1H 2.06 2.18 m 1H 1.76 1.83 m 1H .

A mixture of P2 3.0 g 6.94 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 1.79 g 13.9 mmol and 2 2 oxo 1 2H pyridyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TPTU 2.16 g 27.3 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 20 mL was stirred at room temperature for 25 minutes. A solution of ammonia in 1 4 dioxane 0.5 M 55.5 mL 27.7 mmol was added and stirring was continued for 18 hours at which time the reaction mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 30 mL and water 30 mL and extracted with diethyl ether 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting oil was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 2.14 g 4.93 mmol 71 . LCMS m z 432.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.12 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.43 7.57 m 4H 7.03 7.13 m 2H 4.21 dd J 12.0 1.5 Hz 1H 4.20 dd J 11.9 2.7 Hz 1H 4.00 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.19 3.28 br m 1H 2.97 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.0 4.0 Hz 1H 2.80 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 2.8 Hz 1H 2.09 2.16 m 1H 1.88 2.00 m 1H .

A mixture of C45 2.1 g 4.9 mmol imidazole 682 mg 9.92 mmol and phosphorus oxychloride 768 mg 4.94 mmol in pyridine 25 mL was heated at 80 C. for 3 hours at which time the reaction mixture was diluted with water 10 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting foam was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 1.56 g 3.78 mmol 77 . LCMS m z 414.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.10 8.20 m 2H 7.53 7.59 m 1H 7.45 7.52 m 2H 7.31 7.40 m 1H 6.92 6.98 m 1H 6.89 ddd J 12.6 8.3 2.6 Hz 1H 4.56 dd J 12.1 2.6 Hz 1H 4.13 dd J 12.2 1.5 Hz 1H 3.88 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.06 3.14 br m 1H 3.00 dd J 13.2 3.9 Hz 1H 2.67 dd J 13.1 2.9 Hz 1H 2.46 2.59 m 1H 1.98 2.06 m 1H .

A mixture of C46 1.27 g 3.07 mmol and hydroxylamine 233 mg 3.53 mmol in ethanol 15 mL was heated at reflux for 6 hours. After concentration in vacuo the solid was azeotroped with dichloromethane 3 25 mL to afford the product as a white solid 1.68 g which was used in the next step without further purification. By H NMR analysis this was a roughly 2 1 mixture assumed to be the E Z isomers at the oxime. LCMS m z 447.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks for major isomer 6.89 ddd J 12.3 8.3 2.6 Hz 1H 4.24 dd J 11.7 2.5 Hz 1H 4.20 dd J 12.1 1.6 Hz 1H 1.87 ddd J 13.8 4.1 2.7 Hz 1H characteristic peaks for minor isomer 6.81 ddd J 12.4 8.5 2.6 Hz 1H 4.17 dd J 11.5 2.7 Hz 1H 4.09 dd J 11.3 2.1 Hz 1H 1.64 1.70 m 1H .

A mixture of C47 337 mg 0.755 mmol acetyl chloride 151 mg 1.89 mmol and magnesium oxide 152 mg 3.78 mmol in benzene 4 mL was heated at 150 C. for 30 minutes in a microwave reactor. The crude reaction mixture was combined with those from two additional experiments starting with C47 2 500 mg 2.2 mmol diluted with water 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Two purifications via silica gel chromatography Gradient 1 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane Gradient 2 0 to 75 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 187 mg 0.397 mmol 13 . LCMS m z 471.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.11 8.25 br m 2H 7.49 7.55 m 1H 7.38 7.48 m 3H 6.87 6.98 m 2H 4.92 dd J 11.8 2.4 Hz 1H 4.34 dd J 12.3 1.6 Hz 1H 3.98 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.22 3.33 br m 1H 3.06 dd J 13 4 Hz 1H 2.70 dd J 13 2.5 Hz 1H 2.60 s 3H 2.49 2.6 br m 1H 2.07 2.15 m 1H .

Compound C48 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of the free base of 4 in Example 4. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 102 mg 0.278 mmol 73 . LCMS m z 367.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.38 ddd J 9.4 9.0 6.6 Hz 1H 6.96 7.04 m 2H 4.87 dd J 12.0 2.4 Hz 1H assumed partially obscured by water peak 4.27 dd J 11.2 2.0 Hz 1H 3.82 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.05 3.12 m 1H 2.93 dd J 12.6 4.1 Hz 1H 2.76 dd J 12.7 2.9 Hz 1H 2.60 s 3H 2.26 2.37 m 1H 1.90 ddd J 13.3 4.0 2.5 Hz 1H .

To a mixture of 6 methylpyridine 3 carbaldehyde 20 g 0.16 mol in tetrahydrofuran 400 mL was added allylmagnesium bromide 246 mL 0.246 mol drop wise at 40 C. The mixture was stirred at 20 C. for 10 minutes and a second aliquot of allylmagnesium bromide 82 mL 82 mmol was added drop wise at 20 C. When thin layer chromatography Eluent 3 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate indicated the reaction was complete the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 20 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 200 mL and water 100 mL and the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a yellow oil. Yield 25 g 0.15 mol 94 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.42 8.48 m 1H 7.61 dd J 8.0 2.3 Hz 1H 7.15 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 5.74 5.86 m 1H 5.12 5.22 m 2H 4.77 dd J 7.5 5.5 Hz 1H 2.55 s 3H 2.46 2.58 m 2H .

To a 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 18.4 g 0.46 mol in tetrahydrofuran 400 mL was added a solution of C49 25 g 0.15 mol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL drop wise after the reaction mixture had stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 90.6 g 0.46 mol was added drop wise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 18 hours then carefully quenched with water 200 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 300 mL dried and concentrated in vacua Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 75 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 30 g 0.11 mol 73 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.40 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.54 dd J 7.9 2.3 Hz 1H 7.14 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.69 5.81 m 1H 5.03 5.07 m 1H 5.00 5.02 m 1H 4.60 dd J 5.4 5.1 Hz 1H 4.36 dd J 6.8 6.6 Hz 1H 3.45 3.74 m 4H 3.31 3.40 m 2H 2.57 2.66 m 1H 2.55 s 3H 2.36 2.44 m 1H 1.22 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.18 t J 7.0 Hz 3H .

To a solution of C50 30 g 0.11 mol in tetrahydrofuran 300 mL was added aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 100 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 1 hour. After removal of tetrahydrofuran in vacuo the volume of the aqueous residue was brought to 150 mL by addition of water and the pH was adjusted to 6 7 with solid sodium acetate. Additional sodium acetate 12.4 g 0.15 mol was added followed by hydroxylamine hydrochloride 10.5 g 0.151 mol and ethanol 150 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes and then partitioned between ethyl acetate 300 mL and water 100 mL . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 300 mL concentrated in vacuo and purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 40 to 100 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether subsequent recrystallization from petroleum ether provided the product as a white solid presumed to be a mixture of oxime isomers. Yield 22.5 g 0.102 mol 93 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.38 8.41 m 1H 7.59 7.64 m 1H 7.45 7.50 m 1H 7.20 br d J 7.9 Hz 1H 5.66 5.78 m 1H 5.00 5.09 m 2H 4.38 4.45 m 1H 4.00 4.08 m 1H 3.84 3.92 m 1H 2.57 2.66 m 1H 2.57 s 3H 2.38 2.46 m 1H .

To a mixture of C51 10 g 45 mmol and triethylamine 0.47 mL 3.4 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL was added 6 aqueous sodium hypochlorite solution 56 mL 44 mmol drop wise at 10 20 C. The reaction mixture was then washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 200 mL dried and concentrated in vacua Silica gel chromatography Gradient 45 to 100 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. This material was combined with two additional batches of product 2 5 g 46 mmol and crystallized from petroleum ether to give the product as a pale yellow solid. Combined yield 10.1 g 46.3 mmol 51 . LCMS m z 219.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.47 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 7.60 dd J 8.0 2.4 Hz 1H 7.17 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.89 d J 13.4 Hz 1H 4.67 dd J 10.2 8.1 Hz 1H 4.57 br dd J 11.4 1.9 Hz 1H 4.38 dd J 13.5 1.2 Hz 1H 3.86 dd J 11.5 8.0 Hz 1H 3.60 3.71 m 1H 2.56 s 3H 2.40 ddd J 13.2 6.3 1.6 Hz 1H 1.82 ddd J 13.0 11.4 11.4 Hz 1H .

Compound C52 was converted to the product using the method employed for synthesis of C5 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a solid. Yield 0.2 g 0.6 mmol 9 . LCMS m z 333.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.51 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.99 ddd J 9 9 7 Hz 1H 7.65 dd J 8 2 Hz 1H 7.19 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.90 6.96 m 1H 6.86 ddd J 12.0 8.6 2.4 Hz 1H 4.68 br d J 11.7 Hz 1H 4.30 br d J 12.7 Hz 1H 3.99 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 3.76 d J 7.3 Hz 1H 3.61 dd J 7.2 5.0 Hz 1H 3.22 3.30 m 1H 2.57 s 3H 2.12 br ddd J 14 7 1 Hz 1H 1.74 1.86 m 1H .

A mixture of acetic acid 2 mL and C53 200 mg 0.60 mmol was treated with zinc powder 512 mg 7.83 mmol . The resulting mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and was stirred for 5 hours. The reaction was filtered through a nylon disc concentrated in vacuo and used in the next step without further purification. Yield 160 mg 0.48 mmol 80 .

A mixture of C54 160 mg 0.48 mmol in dichloromethane 2.4 mL was treated drop wise with benzoyl isothiocyanate 32 L 0.24 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as an oil. Yield 100 mg 0.20 mmol 83 . LCMS m z 498.2 M H .

To a solution of triphenylphosphine 47 mg 0.18 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 1.2 mL was added diethyl azodicarboxylate 28.2 L 0.18 mmol and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and a solution of C55 30 mg 60 mol in minimal tetrahydrofuran was added drop wise. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. and at room temperature for 18 hours then was filtered and concentrated in vacuo silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an oil. Yield 9 mg 0.02 mmol 30 . LCMS m z 480.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.48 br d J 2 Hz 1H 8.24 br d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.67 br dd J 8 2 Hz 1H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.41 7.49 m 3H 7.15 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.88 7.00 m 2H 4.75 br d J 11 Hz 1H 4.33 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.96 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 3.29 3.38 m 1H 3.07 dd J 13.0 4.1 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 13.0 2.7 Hz 1H 2.55 s 3H 2.17 2.29 m 1H 1.87 1.97 m 1H .

A solution of C56 9 mg 0.02 mmol in methanol 0.38 mL was treated with 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 3.8 mg 24 mol the reaction vial was then sealed and heated to 70 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the free base of the product as a white solid. Yield 1.8 mg 4.8 mol 24 . LCMS m z 376.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.51 br d J 2 Hz 1H 7.70 dd J 8.0 2.3 Hz 1H 7.41 ddd J 9.2 8.9 6.7 Hz 1H 7.16 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.89 6.96 m 1H 6.85 ddd J 12.5 8.5 2.5 Hz 1H 4.70 br d J 12 Hz 1H 4.24 dd J 11.6 1.8 Hz 1H 4.01 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.11 3.18 m 1H 3.04 dd J 12.4 4.0 Hz 1H 2.67 dd J 12.5 2.7 Hz 1H 2.56 s 3H 2.01 2.13 m 1H 1.74 1.81 m 1H . The free base of 7 was converted to the product by dissolution in dichloromethane and treatment with a 1 M solution of hydrogen chloride in diethyl ether. Removal of solvent in vacuo provided the product as a solid.

A solution of ethynylmagnesium bromide in tetrahydrofuran 0.5 M 17.3 mL 8.64 mmol was cooled to 15 C. A solution of P3 800 mg 1.92 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was then added drop wise over 15 minutes during which time the internal reaction temperature rose to 23 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for an additional 60 minutes then cooled to 0 C. quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 15 mL and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the crude product as an amber foam 750 mg 

Dess Martin periodinane 1 1 1 tris acetyloxy 1 1 dihydro 1 2 benziodoxol 3 1H one 791 mg 1.86 mmol was added to a 0 C. solution of C57 material from the previous step 750 mg 

A slurry of C58 470 mg 1.07 mmol and methylhydrazine 56.2 L 1.07 mmol in 2 propanol 21 mL was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours then concentrated and purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford the product as an off white foam. Yield 280 mg 0.599 mmol 56 . LCMS m z 469.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 br d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.40 7.55 m 4H 7.29 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 6.86 6.97 m 2H 6.29 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 4.83 dd J 11.6 2.3 Hz 1H 4.33 dd J 12.2 1.5 Hz 1H 3.9 3.96 m 1H 3.87 s 3H 3.24 3.33 m 1H 3.06 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 12.9 2.7 Hz 1H 2.34 2.47 m 1H 1.99 2.07 m 1H .

To C59 90 mg 0.19 mmol dissolved in 2 propanol 1.9 mL was added 1 chloromethyl 4 fluoro 1 4 diazoniabicyclo 2.2.2 octane bis tetrafluoroborate 136 mg 0.384 mmol and the reaction was degassed with nitrogen for 1 minute. The reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 6 hours then concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a solid. Yield 13 mg 27 mol 14 . LCMS m z 487.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.23 br d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.85 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.44 7.58 m 4H 7.22 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 6.89 6.99 m 2H 4.89 dd J 11.9 2.1 Hz 1H 4.35 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.91 3.96 m 1H 3.81 s 3H 3.26 3.32 m 1H 3.08 dd J 12.9 3.9 Hz 1H 2.65 2.74 m 2H 1.97 2.02 m 1H .

Compound C60 was converted to the product using the method employed for synthesis of 7 in Example 7. Yield 3.6 mg 8.6 mol 32 . LCMS m z 383.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl for free base 7.46 td J 9 6.7 Hz 1H 7.2 d J 4.9 Hz 1H 6.76 6.87 m 2H 4.82 dd J 11.8 2.2 Hz 1H 4.25 dd J 11 2.3 Hz 1H 3.95 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.85 s 3H 2.96 3.03 m 2H 2.62 2.66 m 1H 2.36 2.46 m 1H 1.72 dt J 13.2 3 Hz 1H 

To a solution of P5 893 mg 2.00 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 5 mL was added 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 389 mg 2.40 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. N O Dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 273 mg 2.80 mmol was added and stirring was continued for 2 hours whereupon the reaction mixture was partitioned between water 60 mL and dichloromethane 50 mL . The organic layer was washed sequentially with aqueous hydrochloric acid 0.5 M 20 mL saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 20 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 20 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was azeotroped with dichloromethane 3 10 mL to afford the product as an off white solid. Yield 953 mg 1.95 mmol 98 . LCMS m z 490.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.18 v br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.49 7.55 m 1H 7.36 7.48 m 3H 6.90 6.97 m 1H 6.89 ddd J 12.3 8.3 2.5 Hz 1H 4.53 br d J 11.5 Hz 1H 4.22 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.92 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.18 3.31 m 4H 2.90 2.99 m 1H 2.06 2.20 m 1H 1.88 br d J 13 Hz 1H 1.27 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

A solution of N hydroxypropan 2 imine 272 mg 3.72 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was cooled in an ice bath. n Butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 3.00 mL 7.50 mmol was added to the cold solution over 8 minutes. The cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature whereupon it was cooled in an ice bath and treated with a solution of C61 617 mg 1.26 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL over 15 minutes. Stirring was continued under ice cooling for 2 minutes at which time concentrated sulfuric acid 1.01 mL 18.9 mmol was slowly added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours then cooled in an ice bath and quenched via addition of 15 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution until the pH of the aqueous phase reached 9 10. The mixture was partitioned between water 60 mL and ethyl acetate 50 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 491 mg 1.02 mmol 81 . LCMS m z 484.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.19 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.36 7.49 m 3H 6.87 6.98 m 2H 6.14 s 1H 4.86 br dd J 11.8 2.4 Hz 1H 4.31 dd J 12.2 1.5 Hz 1H 3.94 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.26 3.34 m 1H 3.00 3.08 m 1H 2.28 s 3H 2.12 2.20 m 1H 1.94 2.05 m 1H 1.30 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 47.5 L 0.318 mmol was added to a solution of C62 154 mg 0.318 mmol in methanol 3 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 18 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 103 mg 0.271 mmol 85 . LCMS m z 380.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.33 ddd J 9.0 9.0 7.0 Hz 1H 7.23 ddd J 12.6 9.1 2.6 Hz 1H 7.08 7.14 m 1H 6.30 s 1H 6.22 br s 2H 4.80 dd J 11.7 2.1 Hz 1H 4.09 dd J 10.6 2.1 Hz 1H 3.69 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 2.96 qd J 6.9 3.3 Hz 1H 2.71 ddd J 11.9 4 3 Hz 1H 2.22 s 3H 1.81 1.88 m 1H 1.62 1.73 m 1H 1.10 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of P2 135 mg 0.312 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 5 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 120 mg 0.94 mmol and 2 2 oxo 1 2H pyridyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TPTU 102 mg 0.343 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 45 minutes. 3 Amino 4 hydroxypyridine 137 mg 1.25 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours. The reaction was diluted with aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and water 10 mL and then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated in vacuo and purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 145 mg 0.276 mmol 88 . LCMS m z 525.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.90 d J 1.7 Hz 1H 8.09 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.69 dd J 7.1 1.6 Hz 1H 7.41 7.55 m 4H 7.04 7.12 m 2H 6.49 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 4.42 dd J 11.9 2.7 Hz 1H 4.29 dd J 11.9 1.3 Hz 1H 4.12 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.22 3.3 m 1H 2.96 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 4.1 Hz 1H 2.80 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 2.9 Hz 1H 2.20 2.27 m 1H 1.96 2.07 m 1H .

 183 mg 0.795 mmol in dichloromethane 7 mL was stirred for 7 minutes. A solution of C63 139 mg 0.265 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours. After concentration in vacuo the residue was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 50 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford a white solid 126 mg containing the product contaminated with triphenylphosphine oxide. This material was used in the next step without further purification. LCMS m z 507.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic product peaks 9.00 s 1H 8.55 d J 5.8 Hz 1H 8.06 8.16 br m 2H 7.77 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 7.05 7.15 m 2H 5.22 br d J 12 Hz 1H 4.40 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.02 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.4 4.0 Hz 1H 2.86 br dd half of ABX pattern J 13 2 Hz 1H 2.49 2.61 m 1H 2.22 2.30 m 1H .

To a suspension of C45 1.82 g 4.22 mmol in dichloromethane 26 mL was added trimethyloxonium tetrafluoroborate 1.40 g 9.28 mmol at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours and then concentrated in vacuo. Diethyl ether 20 mL was added swirled and then decanted off the residue was transferred into a sealable tube with methanol 3.3 mL . A solution of ammonia in methanol 7.0 M 31 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 20 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 958 mg 2.21 mmol 52 . LCMS m z 431.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.15 8.18 m 2H 7.41 7.55 m 4H 6.68 6.95 m 2H 4.73 dd J 11.9 2.1 Hz 1H 4.20 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.82 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 2.93 3.00 m 1H 3.27 3.36 m 1H 2.76 2.81 m 1H 2.33 2.44 m 1H 1.99 2.08 m 1H .

To a solution of 2Z 3 dimethylamino 2 fluoroprop 2 enal 87 mg 0.72 mmol in methanol 0.3 mL was added C65 89 mg 0.21 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 5 minutes whereupon a solution of sodium methoxide in methanol 0.5 M 0.828 mL 0.414 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 18 hours and then cooled to room temperature diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 20 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the free base of the product as a yellow solid. Yield 9.8 mg 20 mol 9 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.44 s J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.43 7.53 m 1H 6.81 7.01 m 2H 4.90 dd J 11.6 2.2 Hz 1H 4.31 dd J 11.3 2.2 Hz 1H 4.09 4.11 m 1H 3.93 s 3H 3.11 3.15 m 1H 2.98 3.05 m 1H 2.69 dd J 12.2 2.6 Hz 1H 2.22 2.32 m 1H 1.93 1.97 m 1H . Further purification via reversed phase HPLC Column Waters Sunfire C18 5 m Mobile phase A 

0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in water v v Mobile phase B 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5.0 to 50 B afforded the product. Yield 6.0 mg 12 mol 6 . LCMS m z 393.3 M H .

 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine hydrochloride salt 12 

Using the method described by B. Xu and Y. Hu 2003 96 97 methylhydrazine 19.8 mg 0.43 mmol was added slowly to a solution of C41 44 mg 86 mol in acetic acid 0.17 mL . The reaction mixture was heated to 130 C. for 3 hours then cooled to room temperature and quenched with 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The mixture was extracted three times with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the free base of 12. This material was dissolved in dichloromethane and treated with 1 M hydrogen chloride in dichloromethane concentration in vacuo provided the product as a solid. Yield 4.5 mg 12 mol 14 . LCMS m z 366.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.60 s 1H 7.43 7.32 m 1H 6.93 6.78 m 2H 4.88 4.82 m 1H 4.26 dd J 11.2 2.2 Hz 1H 4.18 s 3H 3.92 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 2.95 3.09 m 2H 2.61 2.72 m 1H 2.16 2.30 m 1H 1.84 1.94 m 1H .

1 1 Carbonyldiimidazole 4.40 g 27.1 mmol was added to a solution of P7 9.7 g 21 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 70 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. N O Dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 3.06 g 31.4 mmol was then added and stirring was continued for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between water and dichloromethane and the organic layer was washed sequentially with 0.5 M aqueous hydrochloric acid saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution then dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was azeotroped with dichloromethane 3 100 mL to afford the product as a solid. Yield 7.6 g 15 mmol 71 . LCMS m z 508.2 M H .

A solution of N hydroxypropan 2 imine 3.28 g 44.9 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 150 mL was cooled to an internal temperature of 9 C. n Butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 35.9 mL 89.8 mmol was slowly added to the cold solution. The cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature whereupon it was cooled to 8 C. and treated drop wise over less than 20 minutes with a solution of C66 7.6 g 15 mmol in a minimum volume of tetrahydrofuran at a rate such that the internal reaction temperature never exceeded 5 C. Stirring was continued at 5 C. for 2 minutes then at 0 C. for 10 minutes at which time concentrated sulfuric acid 12.0 mL 225 mmol was slowly added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour then cooled to 5 C. and slowly quenched via addition of 15 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution until the pH of the aqueous phase reached 9 10. The mixture was partitioned between water and ethyl acetate and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a solid. Yield 5.65 g 11.3 mmol 75 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.17 br s 2H 7.43 7.59 m 3H 7.33 7.43 m 1H 6.89 7.00 m 2H 6.14 s 1H 4.87 dd J 10.7 3.5 Hz 1H 4.61 ddd J 46.9 9.6 7.9 Hz 1H 4.46 ddd J 46.1 9.7 6.2 Hz 1H 4.33 dd J 12.1 1.3 Hz 1H 3.96 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.50 3.62 br m 1H 3.32 3.43 br m 1H 2.28 s 3H 2.0 2.16 m 2H .

Methylamine 33 solution in absolute ethanol 23.8 mL 200 mmol was added to a solution of C67 1.00 g 1.99 mmol in ethanol 40 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 2 hours. After concentration under reduced pressure the residue was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford the product. Yield 0.71 g 1.8 mmol 90 . LCMS m z 398.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.36 ddd J 9.0 8.8 6.6 Hz 1H 6.81 6.92 m 2H 6.14 s 1H 4.78 4.84 m 1H 4.56 ddd J 46.8 9.5 7.3 Hz 1H 4.37 ddd J 46.3 9.5 6.7 Hz 1H 4.24 dd J 11.2 2.0 Hz 1H 3.93 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.47 3.57 m 1H 3.10 3.17 m 1H 2.30 s 3H 1.88 2.00 m 2H . A sample of 13 was dissolved in acetonitrile and concentrated in vacuo the resulting solid was crystalline as determined by X ray powder diffraction.

 4aR 6R 8aS 6 4 Difluoromethyl 1 3 oxazol 2 yl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 14 

To a solution of P2 812 mg 1.88 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 10 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 1 mL and 2 2 oxo 1 2H pyridyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TPTU 614 mg 2.07 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 35 minutes and further N N diisopropylethylamine 960 L and methyl 2 amino 3 hydroxypropanoate hydrochloride 1020 mg 6.57 mmol were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 30 mL and water 30 mL and extracted with tert butyl methyl ether 3 60 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 30 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. By H NMR this was judged to be a mixture of diastereomers. Yield 840 mg 1.57 mmol 84 . LCMS m z 534.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.11 br d J 6 Hz 2H 7.44 7.57 m 4H 7.04 7.23 m 4H 4.54 t J 3.8 Hz 1H 4.23 4.31 m 2H 4.05 dd J 11.9 3.9 Hz 1H 3.92 3.95 m 1H 3.82 ddd J 11.5 8.3 3.6 Hz 1H 3.75 and 3.68 2 s total 3H 3.23 3.25 m 1H 2.97 dd J 13.3 4.1 Hz 1H 2.78 2.82 m 1H 2.11 2.16 m 1H 1.98 2.04 m 1H .

2 Methoxy N 2 methoxyethyl N trifluoro sulfanyl ethanamine Deoxo Fluor 373 L 2.02 mmol was added to a solution of C68 830 mg 1.56 mmol in dichloromethane 40 mL at 20 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 50 minutes at 20 C. prior to drop wise addition of bromotrichloromethane 568 L 5.76 mmol and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 906 L 5.76 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 0 C. and stirred at 0 C. for 18 hours then diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 mL and dichloromethane 50 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 95 mg 0.18 mmol 12 . LCMS m z 514.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 8.55 s 1H 8.11 br d J 6.5 Hz 2H 7.43 7.55 m 4H 7.04 7.13 m 2H 5.00 dd J 11.9 2.5 Hz 1H 4.32 dd J 12 1.5 Hz 1H 4.01 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.86 s 3H 2.99 dd J 13.2 4.0 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 13.2 2.8 Hz 1H 2.42 2.51 m 1H 2.07 2.14 m 1H .

To a solution of C69 59 mg 0.12 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL at 78 C. was added a solution of diisobutylaluminum hydride in toluene 1.5 M 269 L 0.403 mmol drop wise over 3 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 45 minutes then diluted with saturated aqueous potassium sodium tartrate solution 10 mL and allowed to warm to room temperature. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 32 mg 66 mol 55 . LCMS m z 486.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 8.11 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.79 t J 1.0 Hz 1H 7.43 7.55 m 4H 7.04 7.12 m 2H 4.93 dd J 11.9 2.3 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 1.0 Hz 2H 4.30 dd J 11.9 1.6 Hz 1H 3.99 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 2.98 dd J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.8 dd J 13.3 2.9 Hz 1H 2.40 2.50 m 1H 2.03 2.10 m 1H .

To a solution of C70 30 mg 62 mol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 1 1 1 tris acetyloxy 1 1 dihydro 1 2 benziodoxol 3 1H one 39.4 mg 93 mol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour then was diluted with a mixture of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution 1 1 7.5 mL . After stirring for 5 minutes the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 26.5 mg 54.8 mol 88 . LCMS m z 484.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.94 s 1H 8.27 s 1H 8.17 8.20 m 2H 7.39 7.55 m 4H 6.90 6.98 m 2H 4.95 dd J 11.9 2.5 Hz 1H 4.35 dd J 12.3 1.6 Hz 1H 3.97 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 3.25 3.28 m 1H 3.07 dd J 13.1 3.9 Hz 1H 2.72 dd J 13.1 2.9 Hz 1H 2.56 2.68 m 1H 2.15 2.19 m 1H .

To a solution of C71 30 mg 62 mol in dichloromethane was added triethylamine trihydrofluoride 35 L 0.217 mmol and N difluoro sulfanylidene N ethylethanaminium tetrafluoroborate XtalFluor E 29 mg 0.124 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. To the mixture was added further triethylamine trihydrofluoride 35 L 0.217 mmol and XtalFluor E 29 mg 0.124 mmol and stirring was continued for 18 hours. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and stirred for 10 minutes and the resulting mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 2 15 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 90 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 8.6 mg 17 mol 27 . LCMS m z 506.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 8.23 td J 2.6 0.5 Hz 1H 8.11 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.44 7.56 m 4H 7.04 7.13 m 2H 6.77 td J 54.3 0.5 Hz 1H 5.00 dd J 11.9 2.4 Hz 1H 4.33 dd J 11.9 1.5 Hz 1H 4.01 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 2.99 dd J 13.2 4.1 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 13.2 2.8 Hz 1H 2.41 2.50 m 1H 2.08 2.12 m 1H .

Compound C72 was converted to the product using the method employed for synthesis of 2 in Example 2. The product was isolated as a white solid. Yield 6.5 mg 16 mol 89 . LCMS m z 402.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.21 t J 2.3 Hz 1H 7.32 7.43 m 1H 7.00 7.05 m 2H 6.77 td J 54.6 0.8 Hz 1H 4.93 dd J 11.7 2.5 Hz 1H 4.28 dd J 11.6 1.7 Hz 1H 3.90 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 3.16 3.22 m 1H 2.99 dd J 12.7 4.1 Hz 1H 2.85 dd J 12.7 2.9 Hz 1H 2.33 2.43 m 1H 1.98 2.03 m 1H .

To C44 620 mg 1.13 mmol dissolved in an ethanol water mixture 3 1 4 mL was added hydrazine sulfate 150 mg 1.15 mmol and the mixture was heated at 60 C. for 16 hours. Aqueous saturated sodium carbonate solution was added until a pH of 9 was obtained followed by addition of methanol 1 mL and extraction with ethyl acetate 3 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 17.5 methanol in dichloromethane provided the product as a tan solid. Yield 47 mg 0.10 mmol 9 . LCMS m z 455.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.20 8.22 m 2H 7.39 7.53 m 6H 6.86 6.96 m 2H 4.77 dd J 11.6 2.1 Hz 1H 4.3 dd J 12.1 1.8 Hz 1H 3.89 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.22 3.28 m 1H 3.04 dd J 12.8 4.2 Hz 1H 2.67 dd J 12.9 2.7 Hz 1H 2.21 2.31 m 1H 1.91 1.96 m 1H .

To C73 32 mg 70 mol in tetrahydrofuran 0.30 mL was added sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 9.00 mg 0.224 mmol followed by stirring at room temperature for 10 minutes. Iodo H methane 11.7 mg 81 mol in tetrahydrofuran 0.40 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes then at 32 C. for 45 minutes. Aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 5 drops and water 2 mL were added followed by extraction with ethyl acetate 2 5 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 10 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 22 mg 47 mol 67 . LCMS m z 472.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.20 8.23 m 2H 7.39 7.53 m 6H 6.87 6.96 m 2H 4.72 dd J 11.5 2.2 Hz 1H 4.29 dd J 12.3 1.4 Hz 1H 3.86 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.22 3.28 m 1H 3.04 dd J 12.8 4.0 Hz 1H 2.67 dd J 12.9 2.7 Hz 1H 2.24 2.23 m 1H 1.90 1.95 m 1H .

A solution of C74 20 mg 42 mol and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 4.0 L 27.0 mol in methanol 0.50 mL was heated at 55 C. for 16 hours then concentrated in vacuo. Water was added 2 mL and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 5 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 17.5 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 12.3 mg 33.6 mol 80 . LCMS m z 368.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.58 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.33 7.39 m 1H 6.94 7.01 m 2H 4.68 dd J 11.5 2.3 Hz 1H 4.23 dd J 11.2 2.2 Hz 1H 3.74 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.00 3.05 m 1H 2.9 dd J 12.5 4.3 Hz 1H 2.71 dd J 12.5 2.7 Hz 1H 2.02 2.12 m 1H 1.78 1.83 m 1H .

N 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 methyl 6 1 1 3 3 tetramethoxypropan 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C75 prepared from P4 via a method similar to that used for the conversion of P1 to C44 in Preparation P3 and Example 5 297 mg 0.526 mmol was combined with ethanol 1.75 mL and methyl hydrazine 36.4 mg 0.789 mmol followed by addition of water 0.6 mL . Concentrated sulfuric acid 55 L 1.0 mmol was slowly added and the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 18 hours. Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added and the aqueous layer was extracted three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic layers were extracted three times with 0.2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid and the combined aqueous layers were washed with ethyl acetate. The pH was adjusted to 9 10 by addition of 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and the mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane provided the product as an off white solid. Yield 109 mg 0.287 mmol 55 . LCMS m z 379.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.48 s 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.22 7.28 m 1H 6.85 6.92 m 2H 4.57 dd J 11.3 2.3 Hz 1H 4.16 dd J 11.1 2.1 Hz 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.69 d J 11.3 1H 3.01 3.06 m 1H 2.78 dt J 11.9 3.8 Hz 1H 1.75 1.80 m 1H 1.59 1.68 m 1H 1.10 d J 7 Hz 3H .

A mixture of C30 60 mg 0.11 mmol 2 methylpyrimidine 5 boronic acid 30.9 mg 0.224 mmol bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 4.3 mg 6.0 mol and tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was sparged with argon for 5 minutes followed by addition of aqueous cesium carbonate solution 2 M 280 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 18 hours and then concentrated in vacuo the residue was diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 30 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 44 mg 92 mol 84 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.88 d J 1.4 Hz 2H 8.00 br d J 6.7 Hz 2H 7.56 7.62 m 1H 7.50 7.53 m 1H 7.40 7.44 m 2H 7.07 7.12 m 2H 5.66 br s 1H 4.79 d J 11 Hz 1H 4.34 br d J 10.8 Hz 1H 3.73 br s 1H 2.93 3.05 m 2H 2.67 s 3H 

Compound C76 was converted to the product using the method employed for synthesis of C36 in Example 2. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 17.4 mg 36 mol 40 . LCMS m z 481.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.74 s 2H 8.12 br d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.44 7.56 m 4H 7.05 7.13 m 2H 4.88 4.92 m 1H 4.34 d J 12.7 Hz 1H 4.07 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.37 br s 1H 2.99 dd J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.8 dd J 13.1 2.7 Hz 1H 2.67 s 3H 2.05 2.08 m 2H .

Compound C77 was converted to the product using the method employed for synthesis of 2 in Example 2. The product was isolated as a white solid. Yield 8.7 mg 23 mol 66 . LCMS m z 378.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.72 s 2H 7.36 7.42 m 1H 6.97 7.04 m 2H 4.80 4.83 m 1H 4.28 dd J 11.2 2 Hz 1H 3.87 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.14 m 1H 2.94 dd J 12.5 4.1 Hz 1H 2.75 dd J 12.5 2.7 Hz 1H 2.68 s 3H 1.87 1.98 m 2H .

Using the method described by Roth G. J. Liepold B. Mueller S. G. and Bestmann H. J. 2004 59 62 dimethyl 2 oxopropyl phosphonate 229 mg 1.38 mmol was slowly added to a suspension of potassium carbonate 477 mg 3.45 mmol and 4 methylbenzenesulfonyl azide 13 solution 2.09 g 1.38 mmol in acetonitrile 18 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours. To this mixture was added a solution of P3 479 mg 1.15 mmol in methanol 4 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 17 hours. Solvents were then removed in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 50 mL and water 30 mL . The organic layer was washed sequentially with water 20 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 120 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an off white solid. Yield 332 mg 1.15 mmol 70 . LCMS m z 413.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.20 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.56 7.30 m 4H 6.99 6.82 m 2H 4.44 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 4.14 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.83 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.17 2.96 m 2H 2.69 2.61 m 1H 2.45 2.33 m 1H 1.97 1.87 m 1H 1.32 1.22 m 1H .

Caution Thermal azide reactions are inherently dangerous utilize appropriate shielding To a stirring mixture of C78 325 mg 0.788 mmol and copper I iodide 10 mg 0.05 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 1.2 mL and methanol 0.30 mL in a reaction vial was added trimethylsilyl azide 174 mg 1.51 mmol . The vial was sealed tightly with a septum cap placed behind a blast shield and heated to 100 C. with stirring for 1 hour then cooled to 80 C. and stirred for an additional 3.5 hours. The reaction mixture was subsequently cooled to room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate 30 mL washed with aqueous ammonium hydroxide solution 30 8 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 20 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a sticky tan solid. Yield 86 mg 0.79 mmol 24 . LCMS m z 456.2 M H .

To a stirring solution of C79 82 mg 0.18 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 1 mL at room temperature was added sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 22.5 mg 0.562 mmol in one portion. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes at which point a solution of methyl iodide 28.1 mg 0.29 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 200 L was added drop wise. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes warmed to 32 C. heating block temperature and stirred for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and quenched with aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 10 drops followed by water 4 mL . The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 10 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 41 mg 87 mol 48 . LCMS m z 470.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 d J 7.1 Hz 2H 7.55 s 1H 7.51 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 7.46 7.39 m 3H 6.97 6.88 m 2H 4.99 dd J 11.0 3.4 Hz 1H 4.33 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.06 s 3H 3.90 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 3.34 3.28 m 1H 3.06 dd J 12.9 4.2 Hz 1H 2.71 dd J 12.9 2.9 Hz 1H 2.31 2.17 m 2H .

To a suspension of C80 36 mg 77 mol in methanol 0.8 mL was added 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 8.1 mg 53 mol . The reaction mixture was warmed to 55 C. and stirred for 14 hours then cooled to room temperature concentrated in vacuo backfilling with nitrogen and partitioned between ethyl acetate 5 mL and water 2 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 5 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 17.5 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 21 mg 57 mol 74 . LCMS m z 366.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.59 s 1H 7.37 td J 9.2 6.8 Hz 1H 6.92 6.80 m 2H 5.31 s 1H 4.92 dd J 10.7 3.5 Hz 1H 4.27 dd J 11.2 2.2 Hz 1H 4.08 s 3H 3.91 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.13 3.05 m 1H 3.02 dd J 12.3 4.3 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 12.3 2.7 Hz 1H 2.20 1.99 m 2H .

Aqueous ammonium hydroxide solution 28 32 2 mL was added to a solution of C69 84 mg 0.16 mmol in methanol 0.5 mL . The milky suspension was stirred at room temperature. After 2 hours additional methanol 2 mL and ammonium hydroxide solution 2 mL were added providing a solution this was diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 55.9 mg 0.112 mmol 70 . LCMS m z 499.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 8.38 s 1H 8.11 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.43 7.56 m 4H 7.04 7.12 m 2H 4.99 dd J 11.7 2.0 Hz 1H 4.33 br d J 12.1 Hz 1H 4.00 4.03 m 1H 2.99 dd J 13.3 4.3 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 13.3 2.7 Hz 1H 2.45 2.54 m 1H 2.08 2.16 m 1H .

N N Dimethylformamide 0.5 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated in a drop wise manner with phosphorus oxychloride 17 L 0.18 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for a further 15 minutes prior to drop wise addition of a solution of C81 30 mg 60 mol in N N dimethylformamide 0.5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1.2 hours then diluted with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 10 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 24.8 mg 51.6 mol 86 . LCMS m z 481.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 8.69 s 1H 8.10 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.44 7.56 m 4H 7.04 7.12 m 2H 5.02 dd J 11.8 2.4 Hz 1H 4.32 dd J 12.0 1.5 Hz 1H 4.02 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 2.99 dd J 13.3 4.1 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 13.2 2.8 Hz 1H 2.37 2.47 m 1H 2.07 2.14 m 1H .

To a solution of C82 19.3 mg 40.2 mol in ethanol 1.0 mL in a sealable reaction vial was added a solution of methylamine in ethanol 8 M 0.6 mL 5.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 hours and then concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 10.8 mg 28.7 mol 71 . LCMS m z 377.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.70 s 1H 7.37 td J 9.2 6.6 Hz 1H 6.97 7.03 m 2H 4.93 dd J 11.9 2.5 Hz 1H 4.27 dd J 11.1 1.8 Hz 1H 3.80 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.05 3.09 m 1H 2.93 dd J 12.5 3.9 Hz 1H 2.77 dd J 12.7 2.9 Hz 1H 2.34 2.37 m 1H 1.92 1.97 m 1H .

rel 3aR 5R 5 5 Methylpyrazin 2 yl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C83 prepared from 5 methylpyrazine 2 carbaldehyde using the general procedures described for synthesis of C52 in Example 7 was converted to the product using the method employed for synthesis of C53 in Example 7. The product was obtained as an off white yellow solid. Yield 130 mg 0.390 mmol 20 . LCMS m z 334.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.65 s 1H 8.50 s 1H 7.94 td J 9.2 6.9 Hz 1H 7.04 6.95 m 2H 4.81 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 4.32 dd J 12.7 1.8 Hz 1H 3.99 d J 12.9 Hz 1H 3.74 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 3.55 dd J 7.2 5.1 Hz 1H 3.32 3.26 m 1H partially obscured by solvent peak 2.56 s 3H 2.25 ddd J 14.1 6.8 2.3 Hz 1H 1.85 dtd J 13.8 11.8 1.7 Hz 1H .

To a 200 mL Parr bottle was added C84 352 mg 1.06 mmol methanol 20 mL and 20 palladium hydroxide on carbon 350 mg . The bottle was capped and evacuated and then placed under 42 psi hydrogen. The reaction mixture was shaken vigorously for 5.75 hours then filtered through diatomaceous earth and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 40 84 15 1 dichloromethane methanol concentrated ammonium hydroxide in dichloromethane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 154 mg 0.461 mmol 43 yield. LCMS m z 336.4 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.68 s 1H 8.42 s 1H 7.79 7.62 m 1H 7.05 6.92 m 1H 6.90 6.79 m 1H 4.78 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 4.40 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.60 d J 11.5 Hz 2H 3.42 dd J 11.3 2.3 Hz 1H 2.59 s 3H 2.49 d J 12.7 Hz 1H 2.36 2.22 m 1H 2.18 2.10 m 1H .

Compound C85 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of C55 in Example 7. The product was isolated as a white solid. Yield 200 mg 0.40 mmol 88 . LCMS m z 499.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.14 11.73 br s 1H 8.91 s 1H 8.37 s 1H 7.93 7.86 m 2H 7.80 7.59 m 2H 7.56 7.49 m 2H 6.97 6.89 m 1H 6.87 6.75 m 1H 4.78 d J 9.4 Hz 1H 3.87 3.66 m 3H 3.12 2.84 m 1H 2.59 s 3H 2.23 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 2.01 1.53 m 1H .

To a solution of C86 198 mg 0.397 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL was added 1 chloro N N 2 trimethylprop 1 en 1 amine Ghosez s reagent 158 L 1.19 mmol in a drop wise manner. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 20 minutes then diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 15 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the racemic product as a white solid. Yield 164 mg 0.341 mmol 86 . LCMS m z 481.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.69 s 1H 8.35 s 1H 8.26 8.10 m 2H 7.58 7.36 m 4H 7.04 6.74 m 2H 4.97 4.78 m 1H 4.36 dd J 12.3 1.2 Hz 1H 4.00 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.41 3.25 m 1H 3.11 3.01 m 1H 2.70 dd J 12.9 2.5 Hz 1H 2.55 s 3H 2.25 2.17 m 2H . This was combined with material from a similar reaction carried out on C86 96 mg 0.19 mmol and subjected to chiral separation via supercritical fluid chromatography Column Chiral Technologies Chiralcel OJ H 5 m Eluent 3 1 carbon dioxide methanol . The first eluting peak provided C87 as an off white solid. Yield 106 mg 0.220 mmol 41 from the SFC. The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned to C87 on the basis of the biological activity of derived final product 20 below which was substantially improved over that of final product C89 4aS 6S 8aR 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 5 methylpyrazin 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine obtained from second eluting enantiomer C88 using the method described in step 5 below . See Table 2.

Compound C87 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of 19 in Example 19. The product was obtained as a solid. Yield 45.2 mg 0.120 mmol 54 . LCMS m z 377.2 M H . 1H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.63 s 1H 8.47 s 1H 7.46 7.32 m 1H 7.08 6.92 m 2H 4.84 4.79 m 1H partially obscured by water peak 4.30 dd J 11.2 1.9 Hz 1H 3.89 d J 11.2 Hz 3.17 3.05 m 1H 2.93 dd J 12.6 4.2 Hz 1H 2.74 dd J 12.5 2.7 Hz 1H 2.55 s 3H 2.06 1.91 m 2H .

To a solution of monoethyl malonate 182 mg 1.38 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2.5 mL was added magnesium ethoxide 79 mg 0.69 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature then concentrated in vacuo. In a separate reaction vessel a solution of P2 284 mg 0.657 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was treated with 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 117 mg 0.723 mmol and stirred for 6 hours at room temperature at which time the magnesium ethyl malonate generated in the first reaction flask was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and partitioned between aqueous hydrochloric acid 0.25 M 20 mL and ethyl acetate 20 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 30 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a pale amber solid. Yield 163 mg 0.324 mmol 49 . LCMS m z 503.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.21 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 7.52 t J 7.0 Hz 1H 7.44 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.41 7.35 m 1H 7.00 6.84 m 2H 4.26 4.01 m 4H 3.89 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.69 d J 16.6 Hz 1H 3.59 d J 16.4 Hz 1H 3.20 3.11 m 1H 3.02 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 13.1 2.2 Hz 1H 2 18 2.02 m 2H 1.21 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of C90 50.3 mg 100 mol in ethanol 0.75 mL was added methylhydrazine sulfate 14.4 mg 100 mol . The reaction mixture was warmed to 60 C. and stirred for 1 hour before being concentrated in vacuo backfilled with nitrogen . The residue was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 3 mL and ethyl acetate 5 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 5 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a sticky amber solid. Yield 35 mg 68 mol 68 . LCMS m z 513.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.15 d J 7.0 Hz 2H 7.58 7.44 m 4H 7.15 7.05 m 2H 5.70 s 1H 4.67 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.29 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 4.12 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 3.98 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.58 s 3H 3.00 dd J 13.3 3.9 Hz 1H 2.81 dd J 13.3 2.7 Hz 1H 2.33 2.22 m 1H 1.97 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 1.39 t J 7.0 Hz 3H .

To a solution of C91 13 mg 25 mol in methanol 0.5 mL was added 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 3.1 mg 20 mol and the resulting solution was warmed to 60 C. and stirred for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo backfilled with nitrogen and partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 2 mL and ethyl acetate 5 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 2 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification was carried out via reversed phase HPLC Column Waters Atlantis dC18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in water v v Mobile phase B 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5 to 95 B . Yield 7.6 mg 14 mol 58 . LCMS m z 409.3 M H . H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 7.40 ddd J 13 9 2 Hz 1H 7.31 7.37 m 1H 7.25 ddd J 9 8 2 Hz 1H 5.65 s 1H 4.62 dd J 11 3 Hz 1H 4.11 q J 7 Hz 2H 4.05 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.93 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.52 s 3H 3.25 3.30 m 1H 3.08 dd J 13.1 2.2 Hz 1H 2.93 dd J 13.2 3.5 Hz 1H 1.90 2.01 m 2H 1.33 t J 7.0 Hz 3H .

To a stirring suspension of methoxymethyl triphenylphosphonium chloride 1.47 g 4.29 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 20 mL cooled to 2 C. was added potassium tert butoxide 1 M in tetrahydrofuran 3.68 mL 3.68 mmol drop wise. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature over 30 minutes and was then cooled back down to 3 C. at which point a solution of P8 540 mg 1.20 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 6 mL was added over 2 minutes while ensuring that the internal temperature remained below 6 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 3 6 C. for 20 minutes was warmed to room temperature over 30 minutes and was then cooled back down to 14 C. at which point saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 75 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product. Yield 200 mg 0.418 mmol 35 . LCMS m z 379.2 M H .

To a solution of C92 200 mg 0.40 mmol in dichloromethane 4.2 mL cooled to 0 C. was added trimethyl orthoformate 0.940 mL 0.861 mmol followed by drop wise addition of boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 58.4 L 0.462 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 1.5 hours then partitioned between dichloromethane and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. This material 300 mg was carried into the subsequent step without further purification.

To a solution of C93 material from the previous step 300 mg 0.40 mmol in ethanol 3 mL was added methylhydrazine 34.0 mg 0.736 mmol and water 1.3 mL . Concentrated sulfuric acid 51 L 0.96 mmol was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and the aqueous layer was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 4 methanol in dichloromethane provided the free base of the product. This material was dissolved in dichloromethane and treated with excess hydrogen chloride 1 M in diethyl ether to afford the product as a solid. Yield 44.0 mg 0.102 mmol 26 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 397.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD of free base 7.27 7.40 m 3H 6.73 6.81 m 2H 4.40 4.59 m 2H 4.20 4.35 m 1H 4.15 dd J 11.1 2.1 Hz 1H 3.78 3.81 m 4H 3.39 3.40 m 1H 3.03 dt J 11.8 3.9 Hz 1H 1.75 1.85 m 1H 1.65 dt J 12.9 3.1 Hz 1H .

To the requisite heteroaryl boronic acids 0.15 mmol 2.0 equiv in 2 dram vials was added a solution of C30 40 mg 75 mol 1.0 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 1 mL . An aqueous solution of cesium carbonate 2 M 0.19 mL 0.375 mmol 5.0 equiv and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 3 mg 4 mol 0.05 equiv were added to each vial. The reactions were de gassed and shaken at 65 C. for 17 hours. The reaction mixtures were each partitioned between water 1.5 mL and ethyl acetate 2.4 mL and the organic layer was separated. The extraction was repeated twice and the organics from each individual reaction were combined and passed through solid phase extraction cartridges containing sodium sulfate 6 mL cartridge approximately 1 g bed weight . The filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The crude residues 0.1 mmol 1 equiv were dissolved in methanol 4 mL and 20 palladium hydroxide on carbon 50 mg 0.31 mmol 4.1 equiv was added. The reaction mixtures were stirred at 50 C. under 45 psi hydrogen for 16 hours. The reaction mixtures were each filtered through diatomaceous earth and the filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The crude residues 75 mol were dissolved in methanol 0.5 mL and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 15 L 0.1 mmol 1 equiv was added. The reaction vials were shaken at 65 C. for 16 hours and then concentrated in vacuo. Purification was carried out via reversed phase HPLC Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 20 to 60 B or 5 to 100 B . See Table 1 for characterization data.

Beta secretase BACE is one of the enzymes involved in the generation of the amyloid beta peptide found in the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer s Disease patients. This assay measures the inhibition of the beta secretase enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide.

A synthetic APP substrate that can be cleaved by beta secretase having N terminal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay beta secretase activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin GLTNIKTEEISEISY EVEFR C Oregon Green KK OH. The BACE1 enzyme is affinity purified material from conditioned media of CHO K1 cells that have been transfected with a soluble BACE construct BACE1deltaTM96His . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE1 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE1 is at a final concentration of 0.1 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of beta secretase enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic APP substrate.

H4 human neuroglioma cells over expressing the wild type human APPare treated for 18 hours with compound in a final concentration 1 DMSO. sAPP levels are measured using TMB ELISA with capture APP N terminal antibody Affinity BioReagents OMA1 03132 wild type sAPP specific reporter p192 Elan and tertiary anti rabbit HRP GE Healthcare .

This assay measures the inhibition of the BACE2 enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide. A synthetic substrate that can be cleaved by BACE2 having N terminal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay BACE2 activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin KEISEISYEVEFR C Oregon green KK OH. The BACE2 enzyme is available from Enzo Life Sciences Cat BML SE550 . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE2 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE2 is at a final concentration of 2.5 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of BACE2 enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic substrate.

