---

title: Mechanism to adjust and restrain gun traverse on a tripod mount
abstract: A traverse stop clamp is provided for restricting sweep of a machine gun mounted on a tripod. The stop clamp is installable on a traverse bar connecting to rear legs of the tripod, the traverse bar having an inverse U-shape cross-section that form edges at ends of the U-shape. The stop clamp includes an open ring member, a shift member, a handle, a spring pin and a locking nut. The open ring member has a C-shaped ring with an interrupted circumferential outer periphery and an inner periphery with channels for receiving the edges of the traverse bar. The outer periphery has first and second ring ends separated by an adjustable gap. The open ring member further includes first and second tabs disposed to extend radially outward from the first and second ends. These first and second tabs respectively have first and second through-holes. The shift member has a tang and a shaft at respectively first and second shifter ends. The receiver has a third through-hole, and the shaft has a threaded terminus. The tang and shaft pass respectively through the first and second through-holes. The handle has a lever and a clevis head with coaxial fourth through-holes. The head has a cam separating a lock clevis face and a release clevis face. The lock clevis face engages the tang in response to the lever being adjacent the outer periphery. The release clevis face engages the tang in response to pulling the lever away from the outer periphery. The handle pivots at the fourth-through-holes to widen the gap between the tabs. The spring pin passes through the fourth and third through-holes to connect the tang and the clevis head pivotably together. The threaded lock nut attaches to the threaded terminus to engage the second tab.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09518795&OS=09518795&RS=09518795
owner: The United States Of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09518795
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150626
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to devices that limit traverse motion on machine gun tripods. In particular the invention relates to devices designed as a physical stop to limit pivot sweep angle of fire from a machine gun mounted to a tripod.

The US Army USA and US Marine Corps USMC have used the M122 machine gun tripod since about 1935 which provides a more stable and versatile platform for accurate and controlled angular sweep during successive firings than available by the bipod mounted to a standard M240 machine gun. To enable soldiers and marines to flank a position forward of the M240 gun the gunner restricts the sweep with a rear leg of the M122 tripod for the first side and a hose clamp or duct tape for the second side. Such conventional and impromptu techniques do not provide definitive stopping positions and can be cumbersome and time consuming to install.

Conventional traverse stop devices for machine gun tripods yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular exemplary embodiments provide a traverse stop clamp for restricting sweep of a machine gun mounted on a tripod. The stop clamp is installable on a traverse bar installed on rear legs of the tripod the traverse bar having an inverse U shape cross section that form edges at ends of the U shape. The stop clamp includes an open ring member a shift member a handle a spring pin and a locking nut.

In exemplary embodiments the open ring member has a C shaped ring with an interrupted circumferential outer periphery and an inner periphery with channels for receiving the edges of the traverse bar. The outer periphery has first and second ring ends separated by an adjustable gap. The open ring member further includes first and second tabs disposed to extend radially outward from the first and second ends. These first and second tabs respectively have first and second through holes. The shift member has a tang and a shaft at respectively first and second shifter ends. The receiver has a third through hole and the shaft has a threaded terminus. The tang and shaft pass respectively through the first and second through holes. The handle has a lever and a clevis head with coaxial fourth through holes.

The head has a cam separating a lock clevis face and a release clevis face. The lock clevis face engages the tang in response to the lever being adjacent the outer periphery. The release clevis face engages the tang in response to pulling the lever away from the outer periphery. The handle pivots at the fourth through holes to widen the gap between the tabs. The spring pin passes through the fourth and third through holes to connect the tang and the clevis head pivotably together. The threaded lock nut attaches to the threaded terminus to engage the second tab.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments are provided in response to USMC requirements. The adjustable traverse limiting clamp constitutes part of the tripod system and has been designed for quick easy and secure position adjustments of sweep angle. The clamp can slide freely along the traverse bar and be locked into position by a cam lever. The clamp functions as a physical stop to the traverse of a tripod mounted gun so as to be quickly reset to another position without the need of tools.

The T E adjuster also includes a graduated shaft a base an azimuth adjustment wheel between the shaft and the base a bracket with a mounting channel that rests on the traverse bar . A screw on the bracket enables tightening of the channel on the bar via a handle . The shaft extends below the elevating wheel and is threaded to enable elevation of the yoke assembly for adjustment up and down. The shaft is threaded externally and internally so that the upper elevating screw can insert therein and threads into the base when the yoke assembly is being descended.

The sprocket can be produced separately from the traverse bar such as by extrusion and slicing perpendicular to its symmetry axis. The offset hole enables its position to be altered by pushing the sprocket out of the first end turning the sprocket and then reinserting that back into the first end . By angularly repositioning the hole the tension between the legs and can be increased in response to fatigue wear loosening the original geometry thereby necessitating adjustment. respectively show second and third isometric views and of the traverse bar with the stop clamp . shows an elevation view of the traverse bar with the clamp to provide the traverse limit assembly .

The inner profile of the ring member includes flanking channels for receiving and restricting the traverse bar and an optional central channel as a hinge line for the clamp. However sufficient flexibility existed in the ring member that this was deemed somewhat superfluous but not adverse to operation. The flanking channels inhibit rotation of the stop clamp while sliding along the elongated member . By contrast the DISA mount for German MG3 machine gun included traverse stops for a traverse bar having a key spline to inhibit rotation of its associated clamp which was a bivalve composition the distal end secured to the spline and the proximal end being adjustable by lock washers and shims and lockable by a pivoting handle.

A cam screw includes a tang and the shaft with threaded portion . The shaft passes through the circular through hole and the tang passes through the rectangular through hole . The tang includes a circular through hole . This rectangular hole ensures that the handle does not spin in operation around the axis of the shaft but rotates only along the parallel planes of the open ring member . The spring pin passes through the clevis holes and the circular hole to pivotably connect the handle and the tang . The spring pin constitutes a standard off the shelf component that holds the clevis block to the cam screw and provides a pivot point for the handle .

The exemplary traverse stop clamp enjoys advantages over conventional hose clamps being easily adjustable with only one hand requiring no special tools and remaining connected to the traverse bar . The stop clamp when engaged with the lever pushed adjacent the C ring provides sufficient hoop compression to hold the stop clamp fixed on the traverse bar . Pulling the lever loosens the C ring and enables the stop clamp to slide along the elongated member for rapid adjustment of firing sweep limits in the field.

In summary the cam screw operates as a tensioner when the stop clamp is engaged with the elongated member . The tang prevents the handle from rotating within the stop clamp . Optionally the stop clamp by its configuration maintains upright orientation on the traverse bar . This rotation inhibition is accomplished by aligned channels that conform to a hollowing chamber of the elongated member the latter design feature having the advantage of reduced weight.

The exemplary adjustment sprocket and offset through hole enable tension compensation of the traverse bar when connecting the legs and together. By altering the angular position of the hole in the first end the length of the traverse bar can be extended slightly to compensate for misalignment and component wear from field use. The hole can be repositioned by removing the sprocket from the toothed cavity in the first end rotating the sprocket in relation to its previous position and reinserting the sprocket within the toothed cavity both cavity and sprocket having complementary patterns that provide a snug non interference fit.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

