---

title: Recommending information associated with a user equipment or a communication group in a communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a communication device (e.g., a user equipment (UE), a server, etc.) determines one or more current parameters associated with an operating environment of the first UE, and then excludes at least one communication mode from one or more available communication modes to produce a set of communication modes by which a second UE is recommended to contact the first UE. In another embodiment, the communication device selectively recommends communication groups to users of UEs with current operational capabilities similar to characteristics of the recommended communication groups. In another embodiment, a server determines that a threshold number or a threshold percentage of group-members of an existing communication group are friends with a set of users that do not yet belong to the existing communication group, and then recommends that the set of users join the existing communication group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497599&OS=09497599&RS=09497599
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09497599
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150501
---
The present application for patent is a Divisional of Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 312 574 entitled RECOMMENDING INFORMATION ASSOCIATED WITH A USER EQUIPMENT OR A COMMUNICATION GROUP IN A COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Dec. 6 2011 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention relate to recommending information associated with a user equipment UE or a communication group in a communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1 EV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN or radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interact with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

In an embodiment a communication device e.g. a user equipment UE a server etc. determines one or more current parameters associated with an operating environment of the first UE and determines a first set of communication modes by which the first UE can be contacted by the second UE. The communication device excludes from the first set of communication modes one or more communication modes to produce a second set of communication modes based on the determined one or more current parameters.

In another embodiment the communication device monitors current operational capabilities associated with a UE and determines current group characteristics associated with a plurality of communication groups. The communication device then determines based on the monitoring that the current operational capabilities of the UE is similar to the current group characteristics of one or more of the plurality of communication groups and recommends the one or more communication groups to the user of the UE.

In another embodiment a server determines that a threshold number or a threshold percentage of group members of an existing communication group are friends with a set of users that do not yet belong to the existing communication group and then recommends that the set of users join the existing communication group.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action e.g. described in more detail below with respect to .

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet i.e. an external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN and the GGSN carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

Direct Tunnel is an optional function in Iu mode that allows the SGSN to establish a direct user plane tunnel GTP U between RAN and GGSN within the Packet Switched PS domain. A direct tunnel capable SGSN such as SGSN in can be configured on a per GGSN and per RNC basis whether or not the SGSN can use a direct user plane connection. The SGSN in handles the control plane signaling and makes the decision of when to establish Direct Tunnel. When the Radio Bearer RAB assigned for a PDP context is released i.e. the PDP context is preserved the GTP U tunnel is established between the GGSN and SGSN in order to be able to handle the downlink packets.

The optional Direct Tunnel between the SGSN and GGSN is not typically allowed i in the roaming case e.g. because the SGSN needs to know whether the GGSN is in the same or different PLMN ii where the SGSN has received Customized Applications for Mobile Enhanced Logic CAMEL Subscription Information in the subscriber profile from a Home Location Register HLR and or iii where the GGSN does not support GTP protocol version 1. With respect to the CAMEL restriction if Direct Tunnel is established then volume reporting from SGSN is not possible as the SGSN no longer has visibility of the User Plane. Thus since a CAMEL server can invoke volume reporting at anytime during the life time of a PDP Context the use of Direct Tunnel is prohibited for a subscriber whose profile contains CAMEL Subscription Information.

The SGSN can be operating in a Packet Mobility Management PMM detached state a PMM idle state or a PMM connected state. In an example the GTP connections shown in for Direct Tunnel function can be established whereby the SGSN is in the PMM connected state and receives an Iu connection establishment request from the UE. The SGSN ensures that the new Iu connection and the existing Iu connection are for the same UE and if so the SGSN processes the new request and releases the existing Iu connection and all RABs associated with it. To ensure that the new Iu connection and the existing one are for the same UE the SGSN may perform security functions. If Direct Tunnel was established for the UE the SGSN sends an Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s to establish the GTP tunnels between the SGSN and GGSN s in case the Iu connection establishment request is for signaling only. The SGSN may immediately establish a new direct tunnel and send Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s and include the RNC s Address for User Plane a downlink Tunnel Endpoint Identifier TEID for data in case the Iu connection establishment request is for data transfer.

The UE also performs a Routing Area Update RAU procedure immediately upon entering PMM IDLE state when the UE has received an RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling connection re establishment even if the Routing Area has not changed since the last update. In an example the RNC will send the RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling Connection re establishment when the RNC is unable to contact the Serving RNC to validate the UE due to lack of Iur connection e.g. see TS 25.331 52 . The UE performs a subsequent service request procedure after successful completion of the RAU procedure to re establish the radio access bearer when the UE has pending user data to send.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions.

MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to display information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen keypad etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information . Further the configured logics or logic configured to of through are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to of through are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic . Other interactions or cooperation between the configured logics through will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

Conventional UEs are capable of contacting other UEs via any of a plurality of user specified communication modes including but not limited to a circuit switched audio call a VoIP call a video conference e.g. Facetime etc. Email text or SMS messaging multimedia or MMS messaging and so on. However different communication modes can be preferred by a target of a communication based on a context of the target. For example a publicly accessible calendar may indicate that a target of a prospective communication is at a meeting and a network side server may notify a UE trying to contact the target of a prioritized list of communication modes that ranks inconspicuous communication modes e.g. text or SMS message etc. over intrusive communication modes e.g. a phone call a video conference etc. that the target is unlikely to accept while at the meeting. However conventional communication mode prioritization schemes are typically passive in nature. For example a UE trying to contact the target attending the meeting as noted above may be recommended to contact the target via a non intrusive communication mode but the UE is not specifically instructed to avoid contacting the target via the intrusive communication mode s and there is no actual enforcement mechanism aside from hoping that users refrain from selecting the lower prioritized communication modes in the recommendation.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention is directed to selectively filtering out explicitly disrecommending i.e. explicitly recommending that certain communication modes not be selected or excluding inappropriate communication modes by which a first UE can attempt initiation of a communication session with a second UE. In this embodiment which will be described below with respect to the first UE or session originator is explicitly asked or instructed to refrain from contacting the second UE or session target via the restricted communication mode s and or is not provided with an option for contacting the second UE or session target via the excluded or restricted communication mode s . As used herein an exclusion of communication mode s by which a session originator contacts a session target can be enforced by i an explicit disrecommendation sent to the session originator asking the session originator to refrain from invoking the excluded communication mode s but still theoretically permitting the session originator to override the disrecommendation or ii blocking the session originator from selecting the excluded communication mode s altogether i.e. no user override .

Referring to the given communication entity determines one or more current parameters associated with an operating environment of a first UE i.e. the target UE . The given communication entity also determines a first set of communication modes by which the target UE can be contacted by a second UE i.e. the originating UE . For example the first set of communication modes can include an exhaustive list of each potential communication mode by which the originating and target UEs can communicate. The given communication entity then excludes from the first set of communication modes one or more communication modes to produce a second set of communication modes based on the determined one or more current parameters . A number of example implementations of will now be described in more detail.

Referring to in an example the one or more current parameters determined at can include an instant network capability associated with the target UE. For example if the target UE is determined to be connected to a WLAN and is not connected to the RAN the instant network capability can correspond to the target UE being unreachable by a cellular call or text message but reachable via a VoIP call or Email such that the unreachable communication modes are excluded in . In another example the target UE may be operating in a low performance environment e.g. low bandwidth no QoS etc. such that certain resource intensive communication modes e.g. video sessions etc. cannot be supported and are thereby excluded in .

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters determined at can include a determination that the target UE is operating in a location with a location restriction. For example the target UE may be located at a movie theater or a library whereby an operator of the movie theater or library has the authority to restrict its customers from phone calls text only while on the premises. In another example the target UE may be located in an area with confidential information whereby an operator of the area has the authority to restrict UEs on site from any recording functions no voice calls or audio recorder function no video calls and no camera function . In these examples the restricted communication modes are omitted or excluded from the first set of communication modes to produce the second set of communication modes in .

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters determined at can include an ambient noise level of the target UE. For example the target UE may be at a very loud concert resulting in a high ambient noise level that renders voice communication relatively useless such that voice communication is omitted from the second set of communication modes at . In another example a user of the target UE may be asleep or away from the target UE altogether resulting in an especially low ambient noise level at the target UE such that interactive communications e.g. phone calls video sessions etc. are not likely to be appropriate and are omitted from the second set of communication modes at .

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters determined at can include connection disruption frequency i.e. a rate at which the target UE loses its connection which can affect how long a real time interactive communication session is likely to last with the target UE before dropping out . For example in inconsistent network conditions UEs report presence differently such that the target UE only reports itself present on a network after a threshold level of signal quality and or network stability is present and communication modes over the network are excluded from the first set of communication modes to produce the second set of communication modes in unless the above noted threshold s are satisfied. Thus expensive network features can be reserved for more stable connections and UEs with unstable connections can instead access asynchronous communication modes.

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters determined at can include current user preference settings for the target UE. For example the target UE being placed in silent mode may cause communication modes associated with forced audio to be excluded from the first set of communication modes to produce the second set of communication modes at .

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters at can include current orientation for the target UE. For example the target UE could be facedown on a surface such that contacting the target UE via visual communication modes e.g. text message etc. are excluded from the first set of communication modes to produce the second set of communication modes at .

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters determined at can include current device capabilities of the target UE. For example the target UE lacking a front facing camera having a broken or inoperative front facing camera or having a de activated camera e.g. at a software level or by virtue of the camera being covered may cause communication modes associated with video conferences to be excluded from the second set of communication modes at . In another example the target UE being connected and paired to a Bluetooth headset implies that the target UE prefers voice data such that non voice communication modes are excluded from the second set of communication modes at . In another example if the target UE supports Near Field Communication NFC communication modes that do not use NFC may be excluded at . In another example if the target UE is already engaged in a voice call or a video call communication modes that are not conducive for interrupting the target UE s current communication session may be excluded at . In another example if the target UE has multiple SIM cards that are associated with different levels of performance communication modes invoking the lesser performance card can be excluded at .

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters determined at include a current manner in which the target UE is being used. For example if a user of the target UE is currently engaged in a typing mode non text communication modes can be excluded at . In another example if the user of the target UE is interacting with a virtual keyboard non text communication modes can be excluded at . In another example if NFC is currently activated at the target UE non NFC modes can be excluded at . In another example if the target UE is currently being held in landscape mode this is suggestive of the user of the target UE engaging in a picture taking activity such that non photo communication modes are excluded at . In another example if the target UE is currently being held face down or screen down this is suggestive of the user of the target UE does not want to engage in a picture taking activity such that photo based communication modes are excluded at .

Referring to in another example the one or more current parameters determined at include a cost associated with different communication modes at the target UE. For example if the target UE has used 300 text messages out of a SMS data plan that permits 500 text messages texting may be permitted. However if the target UE already exceeds the 500 text limit meaning subsequent text messages are more expensive then texting can be excluded at . In another example if the target UE is approaching or has exceeded a SMS data plan data usage cap bandwidth intensive communication modes can be excluded at unless the target UE is WiFi connected in an example . In another example if the target UE has multiple SIM cards that are associated with different costs communication modes invoking the more expensive SIM card can be excluded at .

Referring to UE requests from the application server a set of communication modes by which to communicate with UE A. In an example the request at A can occur before the UE wants to initiate an actual communication session with UE such that the request of A corresponds to a request by UE to keep up to date with a recommended set of communication modes by which to contact UE for future communication sessions. For example A can correspond to UE joining or registering to a communication group to which UE also belongs. Alternatively the request of A can occur in conjunction with set up of a current communication session so that UE can obtain a recommended set of communication modes by which to contact UE for the current communication session.

Also UE reports one or more current parameters associated with its operating environment A e.g. as in of . In an example the report of A can occur on a periodic or time triggered basis or alternatively can occur on an event triggered basis. For example the report of A can occur when a change to the operating environment of UE is detected by UE or in response to a request for the current parameters of UE s operating environment e.g. sent in response to the request of A in an example . Accordingly the report of A can occur before the request of A is conveyed to the application server the report of A can occur after the request of A is conveyed to the application server but not in response to the request or the report of A can occur after and responsive to the request of A.

After obtaining the current parameters associated with the operating environment of UE at A the application server determines a first set of communication modes by which UE can contact UE A e.g. as in of . For example the first set of communication modes can correspond to the communication modes for UE and UE from A and A that overlap. After determining the first set of communication modes in A the application server excludes from the first set of communication modes one or more communication based on the one or more current parameters from A to produce a second set of communication modes e.g. as in of A. After determining the second set of communication modes in A the application server sends the second set of communication modes to UE A. In an example as noted above the excluded communication modes can be blocked altogether i.e. no user override so that the sending of A does not send the excluded communication modes and the excluded communication modes thereby are not available for selection by the user of UE . Alternatively the excluded communication modes can be included in the sending of A but the excluded communication modes can be accompanied by an explicit disrecommendation i.e. the user of UE can still override the disrecommendation and attempt contact to UE via the excluded communication modes but is discouraged from doing so . In assume that UE receives the second set of communication modes and then initiates a communication session with UE via one of the second set of communication modes A e.g. either soon after receiving the second set of communication modes or at some later point in time when a user of UE wishes to contact UE .

Referring to UE responds to the request from B by reporting one or more current parameters associated with its operating environment B e.g. as in of of . After obtaining the current parameters associated with the operating environment of UE at B UE determines a first set of communication modes by which UE can contact UE B e.g. as in of . For example the first set of communication modes can correspond to each communication mode available at UE . In another example the first set of communication modes can correspond to communication modes available at both UE and UE that overlap e.g. if UE has knowledge of UE s available communication modes which may be conveyed with the report of B .

After determining the first set of communication modes in B UE excludes from the first set of communication modes one or more communication based on the one or more current parameters to produce a second set of communication modes e.g. as in of B. After determining the second set of communication modes in B UE initiates a communication session with UE via one of the second set of communication modes B e.g. either soon after determining the second set of communication modes or at some later point in time when a user of UE wishes to contact UE . As noted above the excluded communication modes can be blocked altogether i.e. no user override so that the initiation of B is restricted to the second set of communication modes. Alternatively the excluded communication modes are still available for selection by the user of UE at B but the excluded communication modes are explicitly discrecommended i.e. the user of UE can still override the disrecommendation and attempt contact to UE via the excluded communication modes but is discouraged from doing so .

Referring to UE receives e.g. based on A of or determines e.g. based on B of the second set of communication modes C. At some point after obtaining the second set of communication modes in response to a request from a user of UE to initiate a communication session with UE e.g. which can be received before or during execution of UE automatically attempts to initiate the requested communication session with UE via one of the second set of communication modes e.g. via a highest ranked communication mode from the second set of communication modes in an example C. Accordingly the selection of the communication mode by which UE contacts UE is automated in .

Referring to UE receives e.g. based on A of or determines e.g. based on B of the second set of communication modes D. At some point after obtaining the second set of communication modes in response to a request from a user of UE to initiate a communication session with UE e.g. which can be received before or during execution of UE prompts its user to select one of the second set of communication modes D. For example the prompt of D can correspond to a presentation of the second set of communication modes on a display of UE . As noted above the second set of communication modes can be presented exclusively i.e. the excluded communication modes are not presented and cannot be selected by the user of UE so there is no user override option . Alternatively the excluded communication modes can still be presented but can be presented in conjunction with an explicit disrecommendation so that a user override by the user of UE and a selection of the excluded communication modes is still possible. If the second set of communication modes are ranked or prioritized the higher ranked communication modes can be displayed in a more prominent manner than the lower ranked communication modes in an example e.g. at the top of the presented list in a different color etc. . After receiving a user selection in response to the prompt of D UE attempts to initiate the requested communication session with UE via the selected communication mode D.

As will be appreciated in either the user is either not given the option to attempt communication with UE via one of the excluded communication modes from A and or B or alternatively is given the option but is also explicitly disrecommended from actually selecting one of the excluded communication modes.

Referring to assume that the process of has executed and that the application server is arbitrating a communication session between UE and UE via a first communication mode e.g. a text session a voice call a video conference a photo sharing session etc. E. During the communication session UE reports one or more current parameters associated with its operating environment E e.g. as in of of . In an example the report of E can occur on a periodic or time triggered basis during the communication session or alternatively can occur on an event triggered basis during the communication session similar to A of . If periodic reporting is used for E the interval between reports can be reduced while UE is engaged in an active communication session as in as compared to dormant periods where UE is not actively engaged in communication.

After issuing the report in E E through E correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be described for the sake of brevity. Upon receiving the second set of communication modes from the application server in E if appropriate UE switches from a current communication mode to one of the second set of communication modes e.g. or to one of the excluded communication modes if UE is given a user override option and the user of UE engages the user override option E. For example UE may determine to recommend to perform a communication mode switch if its current communication mode with UE has been excluded from the second set of communication modes received at E. In another example UE may determine not to perform a communication mode switch if its current communication mode with UE is included in the second set of communication modes received at E. In another example UE may determine to perform a communication mode switch if its current communication mode with UE is included in the second set of communication modes received at E but another communication mode is ranked higher than its current communication mode.

With respect to it will be appreciated that any number of operating environment changes may prompt the above described switching operation. For example UE may begin a voice call outside a concert quiet environment and then move into the concert noisy environment such that the voice call is switched to a more suitable communication mode e.g. text conversation video only call etc. . In another example UE may begin a voice call in a low bandwidth environment e.g. 1 3G etc. and then move into a high bandwidth environment e.g. WiFi 4G FEMTO cell etc. such that the voice call is switched to a more suitable communication mode e.g. a video call etc. . In another example UE may be connected to a cellular network and may have already exceeded his her text limit so UE is initially blocked from entry into a texting session e.g. any texts may be forwarded to the user of UE s email instead . Then UE transitions into a text unlimited environment e.g. WiFi a home network etc. and is prompted to enter into the texting session. In another example the user of UE may lack a front facing camera and may be discouraged for entering into a video session or may be prompted to enter into the video session with voice only . Then the user of UE connects UE to an external camera or switches to a new UE altogether with video functionality and is prompted to enter into the video session with video capability. Essentially any of the operating environment examples described above with respect to can begin end or otherwise change during the communication session to prompt the switch to a more suitable or appropriate communication mode.

While have focused on recommending a communication mode by which one UE can contact another UE relate to processes for recommending a communication group or social group to a user of a given UE. Conventionally group membership is manually configured by users or alternatively is automatically populated based on very simple rules e.g. friends of friends etc. . relate to communication group recommendations that are based on current operational capabilities of the given UE e.g. and or based on a commonality of friendship between group members in a communication group and the user of the given UE e.g. .

Referring to a given communication entity monitors current operational capabilities of a given UE . For example the given communication entity can correspond to the given UE itself or alternatively the application server e.g. a social networking server etc. . The given communication entity determines current group characteristics associated with a plurality of communication groups e.g. social networking groups . In the given communication entity determines that the current operational capabilities of the given UE e.g. from are similar to the current group characteristics of a given set of the plurality of communication groups e.g. from . Based on the determination from the given communication entity recommends the given set of the plurality of communication groups to the given UE in . A number of example implementations of will now be described.

Referring to in an example the current operational capabilities of the given UE determined at can relate to a location and or movement direction of the given UE. The current group characteristics for a particular communication group as determined at can also relate to a location and or movement direction. Based on the above noted location and or movement direction information the given communication entity can determine that the given UE is in proximity to the particular communication group in . Alternatively based on the above noted location and or movement direction information the given communication entity can determine that the given UE and the particular communication group in are converging on the same location.

Alternatively the current group characteristics of the particular communication group can include a location on which the particular communication group is intending to converge such as emergency responders traveling to the site of a reported disaster area. If the given UE is already located near the disaster area or is already moving or converging towards the disaster area the determination of may deem the given UE a prospective group participant to the emergency response team in and attempt to add the user of the given UE to the communication group in e.g. making the given UE privy to the dispatch communications relating to the emergency etc. . In this case the current operational capabilities of the given UE can include not only a proximity or convergence on a target location e.g. the disaster area but also a secondary indication that the user of the given UE is willing and or able to assist the communication group s activities e.g. the user of the given UE is known to be trained in CPR based on a user profile the user of the given UE is known to be an off duty police officer based on a user profile etc. .

In another example the target location or convergence location can correspond to a meeting room where a group of employees i.e. the communication group are converging to conduct a meeting. The given UE may not have been invited to this meeting or may have been invited and then rejected the meeting but may be currently located in the same city or building such that convenience of attending the meeting augments the likelihood that the given UE will want to attend the meeting. Thus the current operational capabilities of the given UE in this case are the given UE s proximity to or convergence towards the meeting room the current group characteristics are the group members own proximity to or convergence towards the meeting room results in a similarity that is determined by the given communication entity . Further secondary factors can also affect the similarity determination of . For example if the given UE has specialized knowledge related to the meeting agenda or is socially connected to one or more of the meeting participants or group members the given communication entity may be more likely to recommend the communication group to the user of the given UE at .

Referring to if the given communication entity determines to recommend the existing communication group to the set of non members in a notification e.g. an invitation to the existing communication group is sent to the set of non members that recommends that the set of non members join the existing communication group . Otherwise if the given communication entity determines not to recommend the existing communication group to the set of non members in the given communication entity monitors changes to the existing communication group such as changes in membership to the existing communication group and or changes to the friend statuses of the individual group members . So long as no changes are detected e.g. no new group members join the communication group no group members leave the communication group no group members add or drop friends etc. the given communication entity continues to monitor for group related changes. When a group related change is detected in the process returns to and repeats for the updated group state. For example one of the non members recommended to join the existing communication group may accept the recommendation from and join the group which changes the group membership and prompts a re execution of the process of to figure out whether any additional non members should be invited to the existing communication group due to the new member s .

While the embodiments above have been described with reference to GPRS architecture in 2G or W CDMA based 3G networks it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols. For example the embodiments described above can be carried over to a Long Term Evolution LTE network whereby a combination of the RNC and the SGSN maps to a Mobility Management Entity MME for control plane and Serving Gateway S GW for user plane traffic in LTE and so on.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

