---

title: System for tracking diffusion
abstract: A tracking system comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having stored therein data representing instructions executable by a programmed processor is provided. The storage medium of the tracking system includes instructions for receiving a request for content from a device using a first shortened content address, the first shortened content address including a shortened content address base and a first link identifier. The storage medium further includes instructions for determining a content address identifier associated with the first shortened content address and instructions for searching the device for a cookie associated with the content address identifier, the cookie including a cookie link identifier. The storage medium also includes instructions for providing the content to the device using the first shortened content address when the cookie is found on the device and the cookie link identifier is the first link identifier and instructions for providing the content to the device using a second shortened content address when the cookie is found on the device and the cookie link identifier is not the first link identifier, the second shortened content address including the shortened content address base and the cookie link identifier. The storage medium further includes instructions for generating a new link identifier when the cookie is not found on the device and instructions for providing the content to the device using a third shortened content address when the cookie is not found on the device, the third shortened content address including the shortened content address base and the new link identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100436&OS=09100436&RS=09100436
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09100436
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150213
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 408 510 filed Feb. 29 2012 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 990 341 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present description relates generally to a system and method generally referred to as a system for tracking diffusion. More specifically the present description relates to a system for tracking diffusion of content shared on or over a network.

The evolution and development of electronic technology and data transfer systems allow users to interact with each other faster and more often than ever before. Extraordinary amounts of information and data are constantly being sent and received over various networks. Often users may post or send information or data of interest to other users whenever and as often as the user chooses.

A computer implemented method tracks diffusion. The method includes receiving a tracking request from an initiating user to track diffusion of content located at a content address. A computer tracking system generates a first shortened content address for the content address from which the content is provided to the initiating user. The method includes receiving content requests from one or more requesting users and generating for each requesting user a unique subsequent shortened content address for the content address. Content is provided to each requesting user using the subsequent shortened content address generated for each requesting user respectively. Each content request from the requesting users is made using either the first shortened content address or one of the subsequent shortened content addresses.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the embodiments and be protected by the following claims and be defined by the following claims. Further aspects and advantages are discussed below in conjunction with the description.

Subject matter will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific example embodiments. Subject matter may however be embodied in a variety of different forms and therefore covered or claimed subject matter is intended to be construed as not being limited to any example embodiments set forth herein example embodiments are provided merely to be illustrative. Likewise a reasonably broad scope for claimed or covered subject matter is intended. Among other things for example subject matter may be embodied as methods devices components or systems. Accordingly embodiments may for example take the form of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof other than software per se . The following detailed description is therefore not intended to be taken in a limiting sense.

Communications technologies allow consumers businesses and other organizations generally users to exchange information data and ideas rapidly using a wide variety of devices and networks. Users may transmit receive or otherwise share information and data through or using a variety of electronic media networks and formats.

As one example a user may view content presented by or through an electronic source such as a webpage provided by a content provider which the user finds interesting or informative. The user may share the content from the electronic source such as the webpage with friends or other users such as by posting sending or otherwise sharing with other users an identifier for the electronic source such as a content address like a unique resource locator URL address or other address of a webpage . For example the user may copy the identifier or content address such as a URL address and post the identifier or content address to a message board or social networking site or email or text the identifier to one or more friends or other users. Recipient users may interact with the identifier or content address such as by clicking on the URL address or otherwise pasting a URL address into an address bar of a web browser and access the content from the electronic source. The recipient users may in turn share this content with still other users in the same similar or various other ways. Other examples are possible.

Users content generators content providers advertisers website owner or providers and or other businesses or users may be interested in information about content that is shared transmitted transferred or otherwise diffused throughout a network. illustrates a simplified view of a network environment with a tracking system and or data store which may be used to gather and analyze information and other data about the sharing transmission transference and or diffusion of content between one or more content providers and or users A N through or across a network .

The network environment may include one or more content providers . Content providers may generate create provide and or sponsor content such as web pages websites information data or other electronic content to one or more users A N. Examples of content may include text images audio video or the like which may be processed in the form of physical signals such as electrical signals for example or may be stored in memory as physical states for example.

A content provider may be include and or be operable to use a content server. A content server may include a device that includes a configuration to provide content via a network to another device. A content server may for example host a site such as a social networking site examples of which may include without limitation Flicker Twitter Facebook LinkedIn or a personal user site such as a blog vlog online dating site etc. . A content server may also or alternatively host a variety of other sites including but not limited to business sites educational sites dictionary sites encyclopedia sites wikis financial sites government sites etc. A content server may provide a variety of services that include but are not limited to web services third party services audio services video services email services instant messaging IM services SMS services MMS services FTP services voice over IP VOIP services calendaring services photo services or the like. Examples of devices that may operate as a content server include desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor type or programmable consumer electronics. Other examples are possible.

The network environment may include one or more users A N that may interact with the content provider . Users A N may be people businesses machines or entities that may connect and interact with each other content providers and or a tracking system by through or using the network . Users A N may connect with content providers the tracking system and or other users over the network using one or more of a web application A a standalone application or B or a mobile application N any of which may be connected to the network in any configuration that supports data transfer. This may include a data connection to the network that may be wired or wireless. Each of the web applications standalone applications and mobile applications A N may individually be referred to as a client application or client device or a user application or user device.

The web application A may run on any platform that supports web content such as a web browser or a computer a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA pager network enabled television digital video recorder such as TIVO automobile television and or any appliance or platform capable of data communications.

The standalone application B may run on a machine that includes a processor memory a display a user interface and a communication interface. The processor may be operatively connected to the memory display and the interfaces and may perform tasks at the request of the standalone application B or the underlying operating system. The memory may be capable of storing data. The display may be operatively connected to the memory and the processor and may be capable of displaying information to the user B B. The user interface may be operatively connected to the memory the processor and the display and may be capable of interacting with a user B B. The communication interface may be operatively connected to the memory and the processor and may be capable of communicating through the network with the advertising system . The standalone application B may be programmed in any programming language that supports communication protocols such as SUN JAVA C C ASP SUN JAVASCRIPT asynchronous SUN JAVASCRIPT ADOBE FLASH ACTIONSCRIPT or ADOBE FLEX amongst others.

The mobile application N may run on any mobile device that may have a data connection. The data connection may be a cellular connection a wireless data connection an internet connection an infra red connection a Bluetooth connection or any other connection capable of transmitting data. For example the mobile application N may be an application running on an APPLE IPHONE .

Content provided by the content provider may be requested and or accessed by one or more users A N. For example a first user A may visit a website or webpage sponsored or provided by a content provider or may access and or retrieve various types of digital or electronic information provided by the content provider . A content address may be associated with the content provided by the content provider and or may be used to identify or access the content. The content address may for example be a universal resource locator URL web address electronic or digital identification certificate or code or other unique set of numbers and characters. Other examples are possible. The user may share the content address with other users such as by copying the content address and posting emailing texting or otherwise messaging the content address to one or more subsequent users who may access the content using the sent content address.

A user sometimes referred to as an initiating user or requesting user intending to share content from a content provider with other users sometimes referred to as subsequent users or recipient users may utilize the tracking system of the networking environment to generate a shortened content address.

The tracking system may provide many functions and benefits to network users or content providers. For example the tracking system may be useful for shortening a content address. The tracking system may track a distribution and diffusion of the content provided by the content provider such as by tracking the use of the shortened content address. The tracking system may be useful for analyzing data and information obtained while monitoring the dissemination and distribution of content provided. Other benefits are possible.

Not all of the depicted components in may be in every system however and some implementations may include additional components not shown in the figure. Variations in the arrangement and type of the components may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the claims as set forth herein.

At block the content address may be received by the tracking system from the initiating user. The user A may access the tracking system and or may transmit the content address for the content to the tracking system in various ways. For example shows an example of a tracking system web site accessible to a user. The web site may provide a user interface through which the user may send or otherwise transmit to the tracking system the content address. The tracking system web site may include or provide a user interface such as a content address input module through which a content address may be received by the tracking system . A user A may enter such as by typing or pasting the content address in to the content address input module . The tracking system web site may also or alternatively include a shorten button which when activated may send or transmit an entered content address to the tracking system . The web site may additionally or alternatively include a diffusion model as discussed later.

In other systems a web browser may include a button tab or object which a user may select or activate while viewing content from the content provider on the web browser to send the content address of the content to the tracking system . In some systems the function in block may be the user A transmitting to the tracking system a tracking request or other request to track diffusion of content located at the content address. Various other ways or methods of a tracking system receiving a content address from an initiating user A are possible.

Once the content address is received by the tracking system from the initiating user A the method may move to block where the tracking system may generate a shortened content address base.

The shortened content address base may in some systems be or include a reference to a webpage or website associated or related to the tracking system . For example where the tracking system sponsors a website through which the initiating user A sends the tracking system the content address the shortened content address base may be or include part of the web address for the website . As a specific example where the tracking system web site is http y20.com the shortened content address base may be or include all or part of the http y2o.com address. In other systems the shortened content address base may be a reference to a different webpage or website operated by and or otherwise accessible to the tracking system . In such systems when a shortened content address with the shortened content address base is subsequently accessed selected or otherwise activated a selecting user may be directed through the tracking system to the desired content allowing for the tracking system to track the user requests. In alternative systems the shortened content address base may be generated in various other ways and or not be related or associated with the website .

In some systems the shortened content address base may be the same for all content addresses that are shortened by the tracking system . In other systems the shortened content address base may differ for one or more content addresses to be shortened. For example the tracking system may group of content addresses either randomly or based on one or more characteristics of the content address such that content addresses grouped together have the same shortened content address base while content address of other groups have different shortened content address bases. In other systems one or more shortened content address bases may be unique for each content address. Other examples are possible.

At block the tracking system may assign a unique content address identifier to the shortened content address base. Where the content address is a URL the unique content address identifier may be referred to as a URL identifier. The may be assigned in or using a sequential number or character system. For example the tracking system may assign the first content address it receives a content address identifier of 1 the second content address it receives a content address identifier of 2 and so forth. In other systems the unique content address identifier may be a randomly generated series of characters or numbers may be assigned using unique inputs or algorithms or may be generated or assigned in various other ways. In some systems the content address identifier may have a predetermined length such as four or six characters. In other systems the content address identifier may be any length.

The content address identifier may be recorded stored or otherwise tracked by the tracking system . The tracking system may enter the content address identifier in the data store and or another database or spreadsheet which may contain a portion or all of the unique content address identifiers that have been assigned by the tracking system . an example of a database including information stored by a tracking system for five entries of content addresses input by initiating users for shortening by the tracking system . The tracking system may store in the database unique content address identifiers as in column for the five entries . The tracking system may also or alternatively store in the database the content addresses as in column which were input by initiating users A for shortening. The tracking system may also or alternatively store in the database one or more user identifiers as in column . The user identifiers may be a set of characters letters and or numbers which may be unique to each user interacting with the tracking system . The tracking system may also or alternatively store in the database a timestamp shown in column which may be associated with the receipt of the content address from the initiating user and or the request to shorten the content address. The tracking system may also or alternatively store in the database an IP address shown in associated with each of the receipts of content addresses and or requests to shorten the content address. Other information may be stored for each request to shorten a content address.

Where the tracking system receives a content address to be shortened more than once either by two or more different users or by the same user at two or more different times the tracking system may generate a unique content address identifier for each. For example entries and all are associated with a content address of http yahoo.com to be shortened as shown in column . However as each entry represents a separate request to shorten the content address different unique content address identifiers 1 for entry 4 for entry and 5 for entry were generated by the tracking system . In other systems the tracking system may alternatively recognize when the same user has requested the same content address to be shortened and may refer to the previously assigned content address identifier for the new request. Other variations are possible.

At block the tracking system may generate a link identifier for the initiating user. The link identifier may be a randomly generated series of characters or numbers may be assigned in a sequential order or may be generated or assigned in various other ways. In some systems the link identifier may have a predetermined length such as six characters. In other systems the link identifier may be any length. As an example a link identifier may be a randomly generated six character series of letter and numbers as shown in column of the database in described later. Other examples are possible.

At block the link identifier may be appended to the shortened content address base to create the shortened content address. shows an example of a shortened content address created by the tracking system by appending a link identifier to a shortened content address base . In the example of the shortened content address base is http y2o.com and the link identifier is the randomly generated six character value o7dj45. In this example the tracking system appended the link identifier to the end of the shortened content address base to create the shortened content address . Other examples of appending the link identifier to the shortened content address base are possible such as inserting the link identifier between two portions of the shortened content address base or beginning with the link identifier .

At various points after generation or identification the link identifier may be recorded stored or otherwise tracked by the tracking system . For example the tracking system may enter the link identifier in a database or spreadsheet which may contain a portion or all of the link identifiers that have been assigned by the tracking system . The database or spreadsheet may be the same or different than the database or spreadsheet which stores the content address identifiers. described later shows one example of a database where link identifiers may be stored such as in column as well as user ids in column and or unique content address identifiers in column . In storing information about the link identifier the tracking system may identify determine and or store that the link identifier is assigned or associated to the initiating user and or is associated with the content address identifier previously assigned to the shortened content address. In this way when the link identifier is subsequently encountered such as by a later user clicking on the shortened content address the tracking system may be able to identify the content address identifier for the shortened content address by looking up the link identifier appended to the shortened content address . Other examples are possible.

At block a cookie may be given transmitted stored with or otherwise embedded with the client application A N or other device of the initiating user. The cookie may reference or indicate an association with the content address identifier and or the link identifier. For example the tracking system may create and store a cookie whose name may be a function of the unique content address identifier and whose value may be the link identifier . As a specific example where a content address identifier is 8573 and a link identifier is abcdef then a cookie may be created with a name y208573 and having a value of abcdef. Other examples are possible.

In subsequent accesses interactions or inputs of the shortened content address by a subsequent user the tracking system may search a subsequent user s cookies for any link identifiers associated with the content found at the content address. In other systems other tags or identifiers in addition to or in place of a cookie may be sent to and or stored by the user or the device of the user such as in locations that the tracking system may have access to and search during later interactions with the user or user device. Other examples are possible.

At block the shortened content address may be output to the initiating user A. For example where the tracking system operates a website as shown in the shortened content address may be displayed to the user by or through an output module . In this example a content address was typed or pasted into the input module of the website and the shorten button was activated or otherwise selected. Accordingly the tracking system generated the shortened content address and displayed it to the user in the output module . In other systems a shortened content address may be output to a user through a text message email clickable hyperlink or other digital message or may be transmitted or displayed in various other ways.

While shows one method of generating and using a shortened content address many other methods are possible. Other methods may include fewer or more blocks or functions. For example in some systems no cookie may be generated or given to the initiating user. In some methods one or more steps may be performed in a different order. As an example in some variations block of the method of may be performed after block . Other variations are possible.

Once the shortened content address is generated and output to the initiating user the initiating user A may use the shortened content address to access the content at the content address . For example where the shortened content address is output as a hyperlink the user may click on the shortened content address . Alternatively where the shortened content address is output as text the user may copy the shortened content address to an address bar of a web browser. The user A may also or alternatively share the shortened content address with other users over the network . For example the initiating user A may copy the shortened content address and or post the shortened content address to a message board website social network or other forum or may email text or otherwise transmit the shortened content address to one or more friends or other subsequent users. Other methods and ways of access content at the content address using the shortened content address are possible.

When any user including the initiating user A or any subsequent user inputs interacts with accesses or otherwise selects the shortened content address such a user may be referred to as a selecting user requesting user or subsequent user the tracking system may monitor or be alerted to the request. For example where the shortened content address includes a shortened content address base that is associated with or related to the tracking system the requesting user may be directed or routed to the tracking system . The tracking system may recognize the shortened content address by the link identifier within the shortened content address . The tracking system may use a database or table that stores some or all link identifiers generated by the tracking system to search for and identify the content address identifier corresponding to the link identifier of the shortened content address . Using the link identifier the tracking system may determine the content address associated with the content address identifier .

Once the tracking system identifies the content address that the user is seeking by interacting with the shortened content address the tracking system may direct the user to the content address . The tracking system may in some instances insert or otherwise place a navigation bar or toolbar such as toolbar described below into the display at the content address . Alternatively the tracking system may gather and or display the content from the content address in a frame or display generated by the tracking system such as by or at the tracking system website . Other variations are possible.

In the display the tracking system may include a toolbar . The toolbar may include one or more share inputs . When selected clicked or otherwise activated by a user or other viewer of the display a requesting or viewing user may be able to share the shortened content address of the content with one or more other subsequent users in various ways. For example the share input may allow a user to email or message the shortened content address to one or more subsequent users. As another example the share inputs and may allow a user to post the shortened content address one on or more social media sites or other sites. Other examples are possible.

Additionally or alternatively the toolbar may include a mapping input . When activated the mapping input may allow a user to view one or more diffusion models and tracking diffusion or other information about the shortened content address . Fewer or more buttons tabs or inputs may be included in a toolbar . In some systems the tracking system may also include an address module or bar which may include the shortened content address that was used to generate the display with the content from the content address . In some systems the shortened content address may be displayed in or with a browser such as in an address bar of a web browser. Other examples are possible.

In still other systems a user may be directed to the content at the content address without any frame or display being provided by the tracking system or tracking system website . Various other examples of displays of the requested content are possible. In any of these ways subsequent users may be able to reach content located at the content address using the shortened content address obtained from the initiating user or a new shortened content address generated for a subsequent user. In some systems the tracking system may be configured to shorten a content address and direct the user to the content in a very fast period of time such that the redirection to the content may appear to happen instantaneously or closely proximate to the request for a shortened content address.

In some systems the tracking system may be configured to provide an initiating user A when entering a content address into the tracking system to be shortened the option to include the toolbar in a frame whenever a subsequent user accesses the content using a shortened content address and or to determine how content will be displayed to any such subsequent user. In other systems the parameters of a display of content by the tracking system may be set automatically and or prior to an initiating user and may not be changed. In some systems the tracking system may allow an initiating user A when entering a content address into the tracking system to be shortened to choose to keep some or all data and information about tracking and diffusion of the content private for the initiating user selected users and or the tracking system or public available to everyone . If private the tracking system may require a user to log in before performing the shortening of the content address and or to view any tracked diffusion data or information. Other variations are possible.

The tracking system may generate shortened content addresses by generating a unique string for each combination of content address and user which may differ and a content shortener that may generate a unique string only for each content address. Using a unique string for each combination of content address and user may allow the tracking system to track the diffusion of content.

In addition to generating shortened content addresses the tracking system may be configured and or used for tracking and monitoring dissemination diffusion and distribution of the content provided by the content provider . is an example method that the tracking system may perform for tracking and monitoring dissemination diffusion and distribution of a shortened content address between and among one or more users A N.

The method may begin at block . At block the tracking system detects or otherwise receives a selection activation or request for information from a selecting or requesting user through a shortened content address sometimes referred to as content requests . A user may for example click on a hyperlink representing the shortened content address . As another example the user may enter the shortened content address into a URL input or address bar of a web browser. In some systems and methods the shortened content address may include a shortened content address base that directs the requesting user to the tracking system . In other systems and methods the tracking system may actively monitor or survey requests for information from one or more content addresses or shortened content addresses that are entered by users such as those entered into web browsers search engines or connected to via a hyperlink . Various other examples of detecting a selection activation or request from a selecting user by the tracking system are possible.

Once detected the tracking system may identify detect and or gather the shortened content address . The tracking system may for example copy or gather the shortened content address from the browser used by the user or in various other ways.

At block the tracking system may determine the content address identifier associated with the shortened content address . The tracking system may for example first identify the link identifier associated with the shortened content address . The tracking system may identify the shortened content address base of the shortened content address and may determine or otherwise recognize that everything after the shortened content address base may be or represent the link identifier . Other ways of determining identifying or gathering the link identifier from the shortened content address are possible.

Once the link identifier is identified the tracking system may look up the link identifier in one or more database or spreadsheet such as the database shown in and discussed below to determine the content address identifier that is associated with the link identifier . The content address identifier may be unique and associated with only one content address.

At block the tracking system may search or check cookies associated with the selecting user client application or the selecting user s device for the content address identifier associated with the link identifier . The tracking system may search some or all cookies associated with the user client application A N or the user device. The tracking system may identify detect gather or otherwise determine any cookies that have a name which may include or match the content address identifier that the tracking system identified in block . For example a cookie which was named based on or including a content address identifier such as where a content address identifier is 8573 and a cookie has been created with a name y208573 the tracking system may identify all cookies having the content address identifier in the name. Various other examples and ways of searching a user device for cookies associated with a content address identifier are possible. At block the tracking system may determine whether any cookies associated with the content address identifier were found when searching the user cookies.

If no cookies associated with the content address identifier are found in the cookies of the user user s device or client applications the method may proceed to block . This may occur for example when the user is not the initiating user and clicks on a shortened content address for the content for the first time.

At block the tracking system may assign a new link identifier to the selecting user. The new link identifier may be generated randomly sequentially or in any other way previously described for generating a link identifier. For example the new link identifier may be generated in a manner the same or similar to the generation of the link identifier performed in block of the method of . The new link identifier may be a unique set of characters or numbers and or may not be the same as the link identifier appended to the selected shortened content address appended link identifier .

At block the tracking system may store record or otherwise track the interaction or entry as well as an identified chain of link identifiers. The tracking system may for example record the new identifier and associate the new link identifier with appended link identifier. The tracking system may also or alternatively note that the new link identifier is associated with the content address identifier.

For each such entry the tracking system may store a new link identifier as shown in column . For selecting users where no cookie was found for the selecting user such as with entries the link identifier is a new link identifier different from the original appended link identifier. Where an entry represents a viewing of content using a shortened content address received from a previous user the tracking system may also store parent information in the database identifying the original appended link identifier of the shortened content address used by the selecting user. For each of the entries each time a child link is created such as in block a parent link may be entered in the database .

For example once a new link identifier is generated by the tracking system the tracking system may record that the parent of this new link identifier is the link identifier of the content address that the user originally clicked on to access the content. As a specific example the user associated with entry accessed the content using a shortened content address that was created or generated for the user associated with entry . As such the parent information for the entry includes the link identifier for the entry .

Additionally or alternatively for each entry the tracking system may also store one or more of a user identifier content address identifiers or URL identifier a time stamp and or an IP address for the user or user device associated with the entry . Other variations or types of data may be stored by the tracking system .

At block the tracking system may generate a new shortened content address for the selecting user with having no cookies associated with the content address identifier. The new shortened content address may include the same shortened content address base with the new link identifier appended to it. As an example referring to the new link identifier 03EXem may be generated for the entry where the entry is associated with a user for which no previous link identifier associated with the content address was found. The new link identifier may be appended to the shortened content address base in various ways such as the ways in block of the method of to generate the new shortened content address.

At block the tracking system may direct the user to the content using the new shortened content address. In block the desired content may be displayed. The tracking system may display or ensure the display of the content in various ways such as in any of the ways previous described or shown in . The new shortened content address generated for the requesting user may also or alternatively be displayed to the selecting user. For example the new shortened content address may be a shortened URL that may be displayed at the top of a web page or at a different point in a display. In other examples the selecting user may be shown the content in a display that may have a toolbar . The share inputs may be configured such that if this subsequent user selects one of the share inputs the new shortened content address generated at block may be sent to other users or posted on one or more social media sites. Other examples are possible.

Returning to block if a cookie having the content address identifier as a name is found by the tracking system in the user s cookies the method may proceed to block . At block the tracking system may determine whether or not a link identifier of the cookie matches the link identifier that was appended to the shortened content address that was selected by the user appended link identifier .

The link identifier of the cookie sometimes referred to as cookie link identifier may be identified in various ways. For example where a name of a cookie is or includes the content address identifier and the value of the cookie is the link identifier such as where a content address identifier is 8573 a link identifier is abcdef and a cookie is created with a name y208573 and a value of abcdef the link identifier may be identified by determining the value of the cookie having the content address identifier in the name. Various other methods are possible.

If the link identifier of the cookie with the content address identifier matches the appended link identifier the method may proceed to block . This situation may occur for example where an initiating user clicks on a shortened content address that the initiating user requested be generated by the tracking system . This situation may also occur for example where a subsequent user who previously clicked on a shortened content address having a first link identifier abcdef for example and was given a new shortened content address with a new link identifier fedcba for example then accessed the content using the new shortened content address and new link identifier fedcba . Other examples are possible.

At block the tracking system may direct the user to the content using the shortened content address that the user had originally selected i.e. the shortened content address with the appended link identifier . At block the content may be displayed to the user. The display of the content to the user may be the same as or resemble the display of the content to the user previous described and or may include the original shortened content address.

Returning to block where the link identifier identified from the cookie with the content address identifier does not match the appended link identifier the method may proceed to block . At block the user may be directed to the content using a shortened address with the found link identifier. This situation may also occur for example where a selecting user who previously clicked on a shortened content address having a first link identifier abcdef for example and was given a new shortened content address with a new link identifier fedcba for example then accessed the content using the first shortened content address and first link identifier abcdef . Other examples are possible.

At block the content may be displayed to the user. The display of the content to the user may be the same as or resemble the display of the content to the user previous described and or may include the shortened content address with the found link identifier. Other examples are possible.

Additional or fewer steps may be incorporated into variations of the method performed in . For example in some systems the decision block in may not be necessary. In some of these systems so long as a cookie associated with the content address identifier is found the system may proceed by directing the user to the content using a shortened content address with the link identifier associated with the cookie and then move to block . Other variations are possible. Additionally some steps in may be performed in a different order or simultaneously.

The database shown in may be originated and created in various ways. In some systems the tracking system may create a new database or subset of a database each time an initiating user A submits a tracking request or a content address to be shortened. The tracking system may create and store a first entry in the database or subset of the database for the initiating user. The first entry may include one or more of a content address identifier for the content address associated with the tracking request or shortening request see column a link identifier generated for the combination of initiating user and content address see column a user identifier for the initiating user see column timestamp information related to the tracking request or shortening request and or an IP or other information related to the device or service used by the initiating user.

For each subsequent content request or other interaction with the tracking system that is associated with the same content address identifier and a unique or different user not previous associated with the content address identifier such as the receipt of a shortened content address with a link identifier associated with the content address identifier the tracking system may create and store a new entry in the database or subset of the database. In addition to storing some or all of the types of information stored with the first entry each subsequent entry may also include parent information see column . The parent information may be a link identifier in the shortened content address used in the content request. Other examples of generating a database or storing or tracking information are possible.

As discussed when content from a content provider is gathered by the tracking system the tracking system may display the content in a display and or may include or otherwise insert a toolbar . shows an example of the display when the mapping input has been selected.

When the mapping input is selected a diffusion model may be displayed. The diffusion model may include and or display detailed information about the diffusion of content a chain structure and or user locations. The diffusion model may visually illustrate associations between entries in a database such as the database and or interactions with a tracking system . In some instances the diffusion model may replace the content or take up the entire display . In other instances the diffusion model may only take up a portion of the display . In these instances the content may be shifted to the unused portions of the display or the diffusion model may overlay the content below the diffusion model . Other examples are possible.

The tracking system may generate or create the diffusion model . The diffusion model may be associated with or relate to the content located at the content address . Alternatively the diffusion model may be a sample diffusion model such as the sample diffusion model shown in or may be unrelated to the content .

The diffusion model may map illustrate or otherwise display tracking and or diffusion information gathered tracked or analyzed by the tracking system about the content located at the content address and originating from the first shortened content address created by an initiating user. Other examples of diffusion models are possible.

The diffusion model may be represented in many different ways. For example the diffusion model may include a map graph chart model or other display. One example of a diffusion model representation may be as a ripple display . The ripple display may include one or more points . Each point may represent one entry in the database and or may represent one instance of a unique user requesting the content using a shortened content address generated by the tracking system . Each point may be traced back directly or indirectly by some unbroken path of adoptions back to the original point . In some instances new points may be generated or created in the ripple display only when a new user requests the content using a shortened content address generated by the tracking system but may not be generated or created when a repeating user requests the content for a second or subsequent time. In other instances new points are created every time a user requests content using a shortened content address generated by the tracking system .

Point may represent the first view of the content by a shortened content address created by the tracking system for an initiating user. Point may be the first instance in this chain where an initiating or requesting user entered the content address into the tracking system and generated the content address . Point may represent the present view of the content by a shortened content address created by the tracking system for the present user.

A line or diffusion path may connect the points between the present point and the point corresponding to the initiating user demarcating the path through which the information or data spread from the initiating user to the present user. The line or diffusion path may represent visually or graphically the chain structure and or series of link identifiers that have been recorded in a database for the present shortened content address. The line or diffusion path may be generated by tracing the chain history through or using the database displayed in .

For example point may represent a second user who accessed or requested the content using the shortened content address created for the user at point . At point the tracking system may generate a new link identifier for the second user and direct the second user to the content using a second shortened content address. In this example point may represent a third user who accessed or requested the content using the second shortened content address created by the tracking system at point . At point the tracking system may generate a new link identifier for the third user and direct the third user to the content using a third shortened content address. In this example point may represent a fourth user who accessed or requested the content using the third shortened content address created by the tracking system at point . At point the tracking system may generate a new link identifier for the fourth user and direct the fourth user to the content using a fourth shortened content address. Point may represent the user presently viewing the content . The present user may have accessed or requested the content using the fourth shortened content address.

The ripple display may include one or more boundaries . One or more points may be displayed within each boundary . Each boundary may include some or all points for users accessing or requesting content using a shortened content address for a previous point and . For example within boundary the tracking system may show some or all points that are associated or related to users accessing or requesting content using the shortened content address generated or created for the user at point . Between boundary and the tracking system may display some or all points that are associated or related to users accessing or requesting content using the second shortened content address generated or created for the user at point . Between boundary and the tracking system may display some or all points that are associated or related to users accessing or requesting content using the third shortened content address generated or created for the user at point . Between boundary and the tracking system may display some or all points that are associated or related to users accessing or requesting content using the third shortened content address generated or created for the user at point . In some systems such as where the content has been shared a large number of times not all of the points may be displayed between or within one of the boundaries 

In another system each boundary may represent a degree of separation from the initial point even if all points in the boundary are not directly traceable to the highlighted point of a diffusion path . Other examples are possible.

In some systems the ripple display may be interactive. A user viewing the diffusion model may be able to click or otherwise select one or more of the points . Information about the selected point may be displayed as an entry or summary in the diffusion model . Each snapshot may include the shortened content address such as y2.com brd30K9p for the summary associated with that point a user name or other user identifier such as RenoBan associated with the point and or a number of recipients such as 2395 recipients who have viewed the content using the shortened content address associated with the point . In other instances different information may be displayed or listed with each summary . In some instances more than one entry may be displayed at any time and or a user may be able to scroll through the summaries that are displayed. In some instances the most relevant summaries such as the summaries associated with the diffusion path may be displayed or listed. In other instances no summaries may be displayed. Other variations are possible.

The tracking system may generate one or more other visual and or interactive graphs or maps which may be displayed with or in place of the diffusion model shown in . For example the tracking system may generate a geographic map such as geographic map in or geographic map in showing how content has been shared and diffused throughout a geographic region such as a state country see geographic map or the world see geographic map . Each representation may include one or more points and lines which are particular to each interaction or sharing of content as shown in the geographic map in . Alternatively each representation may include one or more indicators showing a concentration of sharing or diffusion of content as shown by the darker red areas of the geographic map of . In still other examples the tracking system may generate one or more report analyzing describing and or showing some or all information about diffusion or tracked sharing of content. In still other examples the tracking system may generate or otherwise create one or more graphs charts figures reports or summaries which may describe show or explain data or information about diffusion or tracked sharing of content. Other examples are possible.

In some systems the tracking system may also or alternatively be configured or operable to record conversion or other user information such as interests click throughs or purchases on one or more websites or with one or more content providers. Willing web sites or content providers may for example include a line or JavaScript or other code in their content or webpages. The tracking system may then for example generate one or more metrics such as a number of viral conversions or other metrics. In this example if the willing web site or content provider is accessed directly through a content address that was not generated by the tracking system the website or content provider may transmit user data to the tracking system together with a unique identifier that may identify the site owner or content provider. In some of these instances the web site or content provider may communicate with the tracking system by dynamically changing the src attribute of an image on the content page. If in this example the willing website or content provider is instead accessed via a shortened content address generated by the tracking system the tracking information may be tied to the user identifier associated with the shortened content address. In this situation the website or content provider may send the tracking data to a top document window via code such as a JavaScript postMessage function. Upon receiving these messages the top window which may be running on the tracking system may relay the information to a database run or managed by the tracking system . Users businesses content providers site owners and others may access and use this information on conversions or other user information to study diffusion and adoption. Other examples are possible.

The tracking system and or data store may exist on one machine or may be running in a distributed configuration on one or more machines. The tracking system may be or include an application programming interface API which may be used to perform the content address shortening and or to fetch or track diffusion data. The tracking system may be configured and or operable to handle billions of redirects instances where a user has been directed to the tracking system via the shortened content address and or be configured and or operable to shorten billions of content addresses. The tracking system and or data store may be or include one or more of several configurations of database servers tracking servers application servers mobile application servers and middleware applications included in the tracking system and or data store . The data store may or may not be part of the tracking system and may or may not be a database server such as MICROSOFT SQL SERVER ORACLE IBM DB2 SQLITE or any other database software relational or otherwise.

The tracking system may be automated or may be controlled manually. The tracking system may in some systems be controlled by a content provider an online provider and or a digital content or media provider. Various other configurations are possible.

The tracking system and or data store may be or include one or more computing devices and or servers such as the computer system described later. A computing device may be capable of sending or receiving signals such as via a wired or wireless network or may be capable of processing or storing signals such as in memory as physical memory states and may therefore operate as a server. Thus devices capable of operating as a server may include as examples dedicated rack mounted servers desktop computers laptop computers set top boxes integrated devices combining various features such as two or more features of the foregoing devices or the like.

Servers may vary widely in configuration or capabilities but generally a server may include one or more central processing units and memory. A server may also include one or more mass storage devices one or more power supplies one or more wired or wireless network interfaces one or more input output interfaces or one or more operating systems such as Windows Server Mac OS X Unix Linux FreeBSD or the like.

A client device may vary in terms of capabilities or features. Claimed subject matter is intended to cover a wide range of potential variations. For example a cell phone may include a numeric keypad or a display of limited functionality such as a monochrome liquid crystal display LCD for displaying text. In contrast however as another example a web enabled client device may include one or more physical or virtual keyboards mass storage one or more accelerometers one or more gyroscopes global positioning system GPS or other location identifying type capability or a display with a high degree of functionality such as a touch sensitive color 2D or 3D display for example.

A client device may include or may execute a variety of operating systems including a personal computer operating system such as a Windows iOS or Linux or a mobile operating system such as iOS Android or Windows Mobile or the like. A client device may include or may execute a variety of possible applications such as a client software application enabling communication with other devices such as communicating one or more messages such as via email short message service SMS or multimedia message service MMS including via a network such as a social network including for example Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Flickr or Google to provide only a few possible examples. A client device may also include or execute an application to communicate content such as for example textual content multimedia content or the like. A client device may also include or execute an application to perform a variety of possible tasks such as browsing searching playing various forms of content including locally stored or streamed video or games such as fantasy sports leagues . The foregoing is provided to illustrate that claimed subject matter is intended to include a wide range of possible features or capabilities.

The tracking system data store and or client applications A N or other user devices may each be or include one or more computing devices of various kinds such as the computing device described below in conjunction with . Such computing devices may generally include any device that may be configured to perform computation and that may be capable of sending and receiving data communications by way of one or more wired and or wireless communication interfaces. Such devices may be configured to communicate in accordance with any of a variety of network protocols including but not limited to protocols within the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocol suite. For example the web application A may employ the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP to request information such as a web page from a web server which may be a process executing on the tracking system .

The computer system which may be used by or with the tracking system may include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. The processor may be a component in a variety of systems. For example the processor may be part of a standard personal computer or a workstation. The processor may be one or more general processors digital signal processors application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays servers networks digital circuits analog circuits combinations thereof or other now known or later developed devices for analyzing and processing data. The processor may implement a software program such as code generated manually i.e. programmed .

The computer system may include a memory that can communicate via a bus . The memory may be a main memory a static memory or a dynamic memory. The memory may include but is not limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including but not limited to random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. In one embodiment the memory includes a cache or random access memory for the processor . In alternative embodiments the memory is separate from the processor such as a cache memory of a processor the system memory or other memory. The memory may be an external storage device or database for storing data. Examples include a hard drive compact disc CD digital video disc DVD memory card memory stick floppy disc universal serial bus USB memory device or any other device operative to store data. The memory is operable to store instructions executable by the processor . The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein may be performed by the programmed processor executing the instructions stored in the memory . The functions acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firmware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like.

As shown the computer system may further include a display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display a cathode ray tube CRT a projector a printer or other now known or later developed display device for outputting determined information. The display may act as an interface for the user to see the functioning of the processor or specifically as an interface with the software stored in the memory or in the drive unit .

Additionally or alternatively the computer system may include an input device configured to allow a user to interact with any of the components of system . The input device may be a number pad a keyboard or a cursor control device such as a mouse or a joystick touch screen display remote control or any other device operative to interact with the computer system .

The computer system may also include a disk or optical drive unit . The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The memory and the processor also may include computer readable media as discussed above.

The computer readable medium may includes instructions or receive and execute instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video audio images or any other data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via a communication port or interface and or using a bus . The communication port or interface may be a part of the processor or may be a separate component. The communication port may be created in software or may be a physical connection in hardware. The communication port may be configured to connect with a network external media the display or any other components in system or combinations thereof. The connection with the network may be a physical connection such as a wired Ethernet connection or may be established wirelessly as discussed below. Likewise the additional connections with other components of the system may be physical connections or may be established wirelessly. The network may alternatively be directly connected to the bus .

While the computer readable medium may be described as a single medium the term computer readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium may also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein. The computer readable medium may be non transitory and may be tangible.

In one example the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

In an alternative example dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

The network may be the same included in overlap or similar to network . The network may couple devices so that communications may be exchanged such as between a server and a client device or other types of devices including between wireless devices coupled via a wireless network for example. The network may also include mass storage such as network attached storage NAS a storage area network SAN or other forms of computer or machine readable media for example. The network may include the Internet one or more local area networks LANs one or more wide area networks WANs wire line type connections wireless type connections or any combination thereof. Likewise sub networks such as may employ differing architectures or may be compliant or compatible with differing protocols may interoperate within a larger network. Various types of devices may for example be made available to provide an interoperable capability for differing architectures or protocols. As one illustrative example a router may provide a link between otherwise separate and independent LANs.

A communication link or channel may include for example analog telephone lines such as a twisted wire pair a coaxial cable full or fractional digital lines including T1 T2 T3 or T4 type lines Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communication links or channels such as may be known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore a computing device or other related electronic devices may be remotely coupled to a network such as via a telephone line or link for example.

The network may be wired or wireless networks. A wireless network may couple client devices with a network. A wireless network may employ stand alone ad hoc networks mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks an 802.11 802.16 802.20 or WiMax network. Further the network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols.

A wireless network may further include a system of terminals gateways routers or the like coupled by wireless radio links or the like which may move freely randomly or organize themselves arbitrarily such that network topology may change at times even rapidly. A wireless network may further employ a plurality of network access technologies including Long Term Evolution LTE WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh or 2nd 3rd or 4th generation 2G 3G or 4G cellular technology or the like. Network access technologies may enable wide area coverage for devices such as client devices with varying degrees of mobility for example.

For example a network may enable RF or wireless type communication via one or more network access technologies such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Bluetooth 802.11b g n or the like. A wireless network may include virtually any type of wireless communication mechanism by which signals may be communicated between devices such as a client device or a computing device between or within a network or the like.

Signal packets communicated via the networks and such as a network of participating digital communication networks may be compatible with or compliant with one or more protocols. Signaling formats or protocols employed may include for example TCP IP UDP DECnet NetBEUI IPX Appletalk or the like. Versions of the Internet Protocol IP may include IPv4 or IPv6.

The Internet refers to a decentralized global network of networks. The Internet includes local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wireless networks or long haul public networks that for example allow signal packets to be communicated between LANs. Signal packets may be communicated between nodes of a network such as for example to one or more sites employing a local network address. A signal packet may for example be communicated over the Internet from a user site via an access node coupled to the Internet. Likewise a signal packet may be forwarded via network nodes to a target site coupled to the network via a network access node for example. A signal packet communicated via the Internet may for example be routed via a path of gateways servers etc. that may route the signal packet in accordance with a target address and availability of a network path to the target address.

The network may be or include a content distribution network. A content delivery network or content distribution network CDN generally refers to a distributed content delivery system that comprises a collection of computers or computing devices linked by a network or networks. A CDN may employ software systems protocols or techniques to facilitate various services such as storage caching communication of content or streaming media or applications. Services may also make use of ancillary technologies including but not limited to cloud computing distributed storage DNS request handling provisioning signal monitoring and reporting content targeting personalization or business intelligence. A CDN may also enable an entity to operate or manage another s site infrastructure in whole or in part.

The network may be or include a peer to peer network. A peer to peer or P2P network may employ computing power or bandwidth of network participants in contrast with a network that may employ dedicated devices such as dedicated servers for example however some networks may employ both as well as other approaches. A P2P network may typically be used for coupling nodes via an ad hoc arrangement or configuration. A peer to peer network may employ some nodes capable of operating as both a client and a server. 

The network may be or include a social network. The term social network refers generally to a network of individuals such as acquaintances friends family colleagues or co workers coupled via a communications network or via a variety of sub networks. Potentially additional relationships may subsequently be formed as a result of social interaction via the communications network or sub networks. A social network may be employed for example to identify additional connections for a variety of activities including but not limited to dating job networking receiving or providing service referrals content sharing creating new associations maintaining existing associations identifying potential activity partners performing or supporting commercial transactions or the like.

A social network may include individuals with similar experiences opinions education levels or backgrounds. Subgroups may exist or be created according to user profiles of individuals for example in which a subgroup member may belong to multiple subgroups. An individual may also have multiple 1 few associations within a social network such as for family college classmates or co workers.

An individual s social network may refer to a set of direct personal relationships or a set of indirect personal relationships. A direct personal relationship refers to a relationship for an individual in which communications may be individual to individual such as with family members friends colleagues co workers or the like. An indirect personal relationship refers to a relationship that may be available to an individual with another individual although no form of individual to individual communication may have taken place such as a friend of a friend or the like. Different privileges or permissions may be associated with relationships in a social network. A social network also may generate relationships or connections with entities other than a person such as companies brands or so called virtual persons. An individual s social network may be represented in a variety of forms such as visually electronically or functionally. For example a social graph or socio gram may represent an entity in a social network as a node and a relationship as an edge or a link.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The network environment and or tracking system may be configured or operable for multi modal communication which may occur between members of a social network. Individuals within one or more social networks may interact or communication with other members of a social network via a variety of devices. Multi modal communication technologies refers to a set of technologies that permit interoperable communication across multiple devices or platforms such as cell phones smart phones tablet computing devices personal computers televisions SMS MMS email instant messenger clients forums social networking sites such as Facebook Twitter or Google or the like.

The tracking system may offer many benefits and advantages. The tracking system may allow a user to shorten a content address and or track diffusion or sharing of the content through one or many users. The tracking system may for example allow users to visualize and view how information or data posted or sent by one user may spread or diffuse to other users. The tracking system may allow a user content provider web site or other business or user to track diffusion from person to person regardless of how one or more users decided to share content. This may provide advantages over specifically designed widgets created to track how content is spread in that the tracking system may track the spread of content in any manner without requiring a user to log in use a widget or pass content in one or a few defined manners. The tracking system may also or alternatively give site owners and users the ability to detect which pieces of content are spreading from peer to peer across the internet. Various other advantages are possible.

In general terminology may be understood at least in part from usage in context. For example terms such as and or or and or as used herein may include a variety of meanings that may depend at least in part upon the context in which such terms are used. Typically or if used to associate a list such as A B or C is intended to mean A B and C here used in the inclusive sense as well as A B or C here used in the exclusive sense. In addition the term one or more as used herein depending at least in part upon context may be used to describe any feature structure or characteristic in a singular sense or may be used to describe combinations of features structures or characteristics in a plural sense. Similarly terms such as a an or the again may be understood to convey a singular usage or to convey a plural usage depending at least in part upon context. In addition the term based on may be understood as not necessarily intended to convey an exclusive set of factors and may instead allow for existence of additional factors not necessarily expressly described again depending at least in part on context.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description. While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Throughout the specification and claims terms may have nuanced meanings suggested or implied in context beyond an explicitly stated meaning. Likewise the phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment. It is intended for example that claimed subject matter include combinations of example embodiments in whole or in part. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

