---

title: System and method for semantic trick play
abstract: A semantic based trick play method and system in a media player is provided in which a semantic trick play command is received from a user while the user is experiencing a current content of a media item. Metadata is detected with respect to a current playback position of the media item, and at least one further playback position is determined in the current content of the media item or a related content in another media item. The further playback position is semantically related to the metadata of the current playback position. Playback is then moved to the at least one further playback position, so that the user experiences a media content of the at least one further playback position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424882&OS=09424882&RS=09424882
owner: Porto Technology, LLC
number: 09424882
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151109
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 457 428 which was filed Jun. 10 2009 which claims the benefit of provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 149 220 filed Feb. 2 2009 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates generally to a media system and more particularly to a media system for and method of semantic trick play.

In general online video on demand VoD systems are growing and becoming more accessible Netflix Amazon Apple TV . As content libraries grow a semantic system would be useful and desirable for video systems in order to attract and maintain viewership. A semantic catalogue can help a viewer bridge the gap on plot knowledge and find relevant content across content libraries.

According to one aspect the present invention provides a method of semantic trick play in a media player including receiving a semantic trick play command during playback of a current content of a media item detecting metadata with respect to a current playback position of the media item determining at least one further playback position in the current content of the media item or a related content in another media item the further playback position being semantically related to the metadata of the current playback position and moving playback to the at least one further playback position so that a media content of the at least one further playback position is then played back by the media player.

The current playback position may include a first scene in a video episode and the at least one further playback position may comprise a second scene within the video episode which is semantically and causally linked to the first scene.

Alternatively the current playback position may include a first scene in a first video episode and the at least one further playback position may comprise a second scene within a second video episode which is semantically and causally linked to the first scene in the first video episode.

According to another aspect of the present invention a media system for semantic trick play in a video player is provided including means for receiving a semantic trick play command from a user while the user is viewing a current content of a video item means for detecting metadata with respect to a current playback position of the video item means for determining at least one further playback position in the current content of the video item or a related content in another video item the further playback position being semantically related to the metadata of the current playback position and means for moving playback to the at least one further playback position so that the user views a video content of the at least one further playback position.

The present invention also contemplates a computer readable medium including software for instructing a media system to receive a semantic trick play command from a user while the user is experiencing a current content of a media item detect metadata with respect to a current playback position of the media item determine at least one further playback position in the current content of the media item or a related content in another media item the further playback position being semantically related to the metadata of the current playback position and move playback to the at least one further playback position so that the user experiences a media content of the at least one further playback position.

The present invention also provides a media system for semantic trick play including a media player which detects information regarding a currently viewed first scene of a video content based on a current playback location a content semantic model which receives the information regarding the currently viewed first video scene and returns to the media player a reference to a second scene within the video content and which is semantically and causally linked to the currently viewed first scene a content server which receives a request from the media player and then returns to the media player the second scene which is semantically and causally linked to the first scene and a display device which displays the video content wherein the media player plays back the second scene on the display device.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

Note that at times the system of the present invention is described as performing a certain function. However one of ordinary skill in the art would know that the program is what is performing the function rather than the entity of the system itself.

Although aspects of one implementation of the present invention are depicted as being stored in memory one skilled in the art will appreciate that all or part of systems and methods consistent with the present invention may be stored on or read from other computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks and CD ROM a carrier wave received from a network such as the Internet or other forms of ROM or RAM either currently known or later developed. Further although specific components of the system have been described one skilled in the art will appreciate that a system suitable for use with the methods and systems consistent with the present invention may contain additional or different components.

The media player may be for example a personal computer a set top box STB for playing digital television content received from a television content provider a Digital Video Recorder DVR for playing previously recorded video content such as previously recorded television content received from a television content provider an Apple TV device for playing downloaded content that has been purchased or rented from a remote media distribution service such as the Apple iTunes store a Digital Versatile Disc DVD player or the like. The media player may be connected to the display device via any desired audio video connection such as for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI connection a Digital Video Interface DVI connection a coaxial cable connection or the like. The display device may be for example a computer display screen a television TV or the like. In an alternative embodiment the display device may be incorporated into the media player .

The media player includes a media playback function and a semantic trick play function each of which may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. The media playback function generally operates to provide playback of media items obtained from a content source or server . In the exemplary embodiment the media items are video items. As such the media playback function provides playback of the video items and presentation of the video items to the user via the display device . The content server varies depending on the particular implementation of the media player . For example if the media player is an STB then the content server may be a television content distribution network such as a Cable Television CATV network. As another example if the media player is a DVD player then the content server is a DVD. As a further example if the media player is a device such as an Apple TV device then the content server may be a remote media distribution service such as the Apple iTunes store where the media player has access to the remote media distribution service via a network such as for example the Internet.

The following is a more detailed description of the semantic trick play consistent with the present invention.

The semantic relationships between plot elements across one piece of content or various pieces of content may be established using various techniques including but not limited to one of the following exemplary techniques user community networks for example The Internet Movie Database IMDb by a content provider or semantic analysis indexing and retrieval of video storyline detection.

There are currently many active user community networks around popular video content. Such a user community may create the relationships using a wiki model where multiple contributors refine semantic relationships in the process of creating annotations and other useful content related to the video content. Alternatively a DVR interface may be used where the semantic relationships can be created by individual users and aggregated by a service using the DVR while watching the content.

When provided by the content provider the MPEG 7 standard allows for annotations to be bundled along with the original piece of content. The semantic relationships or references to semantic relationships can be encoded in MPEG 7 by the content provider.

With respect to semantic analysis indexing and retrieval of video and storyline detection these techniques leverage various techniques in for example but not limited to video analysis of visual effects speech and audio effects object and facial recognition natural language processing and semantic analysis using speech recognition ontologies machine learning information indexing and retrieval and semantic or ontological querying.

Moreover performing metadata analysis on a particular scene of a video contemplates metadata that may include but is not limited to at least one of descriptions of a video scene actual and or fictional names of characters in a video scene data structures establishing semantic links between two or more video scenes or indexes that allow semantic linking and retrieval.

Moreover for each video scene or segment the metadata information identifying and describing the segment may include information describing the content of the segment of the media item. For example the information may describe the segment as containing an action scene a romantic scene or the like. As another example if the media item is one of the Star Wars movies the information may describe the content of the segment more specifically as containing a Princess Leia scene a Darth Vader scene a droid scene a space fighting scene or the like. As another example the information describing the segment may include a list of actors or actresses appearing in the segment and or a description of activities that take place in the segment. The information describing the content of the segments of the media item may be information provided by a producer or creator of the media item information such as annotations provided by one or more users that have previously viewed the media item or the like or any combination thereof.

Also consistent with the present invention the metadata may be for example tags annotations a script or lyrics for the media item closed captioning information sub titles or the like. Moreover the semantic trick play function may also utilize a combination of audio and video frame analysis techniques. For example to detect violent content in addition to frame analysis techniques to detect for example smoke or blood pixels the system may also utilize audio analysis techniques for example to detect gunshot sounds.

For utilizing semantic trick play across episodes a content library is provided to be available to the DVR see for example content server in . The content library can be a local library such as iTunes Apple TV or at some remote content library source such as cable VoD or Netflix .

An explanation of some of the terms and functions will now be provided in the context of the present invention. Content semantic relationships may span across episodes movies or genres various multimedia content types and result in a semantic content tree which is navigable by the media system for semantic trick play making requests for semantic trick play functions. While the present invention refers to a semantic content tree other semantic content relationships are contemplated and may also resemble graph structures other than a tree. Thus in semantic content trees nodes have a single parent node which implies that a single event in a plot leads to a single consequence or conversely a single event may have only a single cause. If the plot is linear which is the typical case the semantic structure would resemble a tree but in case of non linear or complex plots the relationship structure can adopt a correspondingly complex shape. For instance a single plot event may cause multiple mutually unrelated events down the line in which case the relationship structure would look like for example a web of interleaved trees rather than a single tree. Another case is where a single content item has multiple plot lines e.g. a soap etc. .

These semantic relationships are stored in a remote server such as the content server or downloaded to the local playback device such as the media player .

Forward and backward references in the semantic content tree generally represent moving back and forth in plot lines episodes or story lines.

The term trick play generally refers to using the transport or viewing controls such as pause instant replay rewind etc. of the media player for example a DVR system . Embodiments commensurate with the present invention relate to a semantic based trick play system such that an additional set of trick play controls is also available which is based on semantics instead of time.

Semantic trick play functions are implemented for example in software and have the following functionality 

Similarly the user may hit a semantic fast forward for example a button on the input device see and the system O would take him forward to follow the current plot element. While the broad overview above shows an example regarding various episodes the semantic trick play consistent with the present invention can be across one piece of content as well as various episodes.

With reference to in step S a user is watching video content e.g. playing Episode scene on the media player such as a DVR. The user executes a semantic rewind by pressing the semantic rewind button on the input device step S .

In step S the DVR passes the current scene information to the content semantic module . While the content semantic module is shown as a separate unit in the content semantic module can be hosted locally on the media player e.g. DVR or on a remote system.

The content semantic module returns a backward reference to the current scene and plot element step S . In as an example Episode scene is returned by the semantic module .

In step S the DVR requests the scene from the content library which may be content server i.e. a request is made to fetch Episode scene from the content server .

Finally in step S the scene is returned and the content is played for the user on the DVR by the semantic trick play function i.e. the Episode scene clip is returned and then played for the user . The user can play or pause the returned scene by hitting the semantic play pause button on the input device . Accordingly the user is able to play back the scene from an earlier episode which is related in some fashion to the episode and scene he was originally watching. Similarly for executing a semantic fast forward the media player passes the current scene information to the content semantic module and the semantic module returns to the media player a forward reference to the current scene. The media player requests the returned reference from the content server . The scene is returned and the content is played on the media player .

Richard is a spotty watcher of The Office from NBC. During one particular scene he hears Michael Scott use the words Dinka Flicka . He does not understand the reference because he has missed so many episodes so he hits the Semantic Rewind button . His DVR fetches a scene from an episode from last season where Darryl from the warehouse teaches Michael fake urban slang. Richard understands and is happy.

Cathy is watching an old MacGyver episode on ABC.com. She gets confused at one point as the plot does not make sense and asks How the heck and presses the Semantic Rewind button on input device . The media player performs metadata analysis on the current scene and finds the metadata ingenious use do not try this at home stapler rubber band grappling hook . The player searches the indexed metadata of previous scenes and finds one with the metadata surreptitious hide rubber band stapler plot device and identifies this scene as a potential solution.

Alternatively prior analysis has been performed on this video either by machine or human users and a semantic link graph is embedded in the metadata layer MPEG 7 which links these two scenes. The media player simply traverses this graph for a semantic rewind. The media player rewinds to that scene.

Cathy watches the scene closely this time. She notices him slip a rubber band and a stapler in his coat pocket and finally understands how he was able to build a grappling hook launcher to pull himself out of the mine shaft.

She presses Semantic Unwind button and jumps back to her previous position. She then gets a call that she has to take and cannot watch the full episode so she double taps the Semantic Fast Forward button . This takes her to the climactic scene where the entire plot is resolved. She stops watching the video and takes the call

When a user invokes a semantic trick play function the system has to determine what is semantically relevant at that point in playback. There may be several interesting semantic items which may be identified using various techniques already discussed. Each of these semantic items will take different paths through the semantic content tree. The system thus determines which of these semantic paths to take using any combination of the following techniques 

In the exemplary embodiment establishing semantic relevance may include Causal Graphs or Causal Networks. A Causal Graph as used herein describes the causal relationship between two states or events e.g. event E causes or enables or leads to event E or state S is changed by event E to state S.

For instance at a high level E may describe scene S where MacGyver steals a rubber band and a stapler and E may describe S where MacGyver builds a grappling hook out of a rubber band and a stapler and hence there is a causal enables relationship between E and E and by extension scenes S and S. A Semantic Rewind operation on a scene S described by E would travel this causal relationship backwards to accurately identify scene S described by E that enables it.

Thus in the present invention the semantic trick play operation should not take the user to a scene with similar semantic ontological nodes but absolutely no causal relationship. For instance a rewind on scene S where MacGyver steals a stapler and a rubber band tagged with semantic nodes MacGyver stapler rubber band should not take the viewer to an unrelated scene S where MacGyver uses a stapler to staple a bunch of forms and bundles them up using a rubber band which also happens to be tagged with semantic nodes MacGyver stapler rubber band . Instead and unlike previous solutions that do not consider causality in the present invention the Semantic Rewind on scene S takes the user to the related scene S

Constructing such data structures through automated video analysis may be accomplished using techniques in the fields of artificial intelligence AI Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing and are thus contemplated by this invention. For the purposes of this invention however such Causal Networks also may be created manually by human operators or user created links.

For instance a scene S tagged either automatically or manually with MacGyver steals stapler rubber band would have a high correlation with a scene S tagged with MacGyver uses stapler rubber band builds grappling hook simply because they share a large number of tags and hence there is a high chance they are causally related. Furthermore the fact that scene S occurs before S comparing temporal locations indicates that S probably causes S i.e. the causal relationship can be described as 

Note that the tags do not have to explicitly name the objects or actions they refer to but they may just identify common objects using video object recognition i.e. MacGyver rubber band stapler may simply be identified as objects P and those same objects showing up in both scenes would lead to both scenes having the same tags. Video object recognition and object identification per se are well known in computer vision art.

The present invention has substantial opportunity for variation without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. For example while the embodiments discussed herein are directed to personal or in home playback the present invention is not limited thereto. Further while the examples refer to video segments or scenes the present invention is not limited thereto and other forms of media content are contemplated herein.

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

