---

title: Call routing to subject matter specialist for network page topic
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for location based call routing to a subject matter specialist. A call request is received from a computing device which includes an identifier of a network page. A topic specialist for the network page is identified from the contents of the network page. The call request is completed by establishing a call between the computing device and another computing device which is operated by the topic specialist.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09332124&OS=09332124&RS=09332124
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09332124
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150723
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of both co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 331 673 filed Jul. 15 2014 entitled CALL ROUTING TO SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALIST FOR NETWORK PAGE TOPIC as well as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 217 364 filed Aug. 25 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 787 540 entitled CALL ROUTING TO SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALIST FOR NETWORK PAGE TOPIC both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Users who view network pages such as web pages often want additional information about the topics on the network page. For example a customer viewing an electronic catalog may want additional information about a product. An online merchant may therefore provide a hotline which customers can call to speak to a customer representative. However the vast number and variety of products offered for sale by online merchants make it difficult for these merchants to staff a hotline with representatives who are knowledgeable about the products.

The present disclosure relates to providing assistance to users who view network pages such as web pages. More specifically the present disclosure relates to analyzing a network page to determine the topic of the network page and routing a phone call from the user to a specialist who can provide assistance on that particular topic. In various embodiments disclosed herein the user interacts with a contact application to request contact with a specialist. The contact application acting on behalf of the user interacts with another computer application or service to request a phone call with a specialist. This remote computer application or service may be implemented for example in conjunction with a call center.

The user side application identifies the network page of interest to the remote application or service. The remote application or service analyzes the content of the network page of interest and determines the topic of the network page. For example the topic for a network page on an electronic commerce site may be a product or product category. The remote application or service maps the topic to a person with knowledge about that topic. Through the contact application on the computing device the remote application or service automatically establishes a phone call between the user s computing device and a computing device operated by the topic specialist. The topic specialist is then available to provide assistance to the user on the topic of the network page.

Notably the topic of each network page is dynamically identified at the time of the request for assistance. Thus topic assistance is not limited to a predefined set of network pages where each network page is statically mapped a priori to a topic. Instead the embodiments described herein allow assistance for a virtually unlimited set of network pages.

Furthermore the embodiments described herein allow for a business model where various third parties can provide specialized assistance each on a subset of topics. Thus one topic assistance entity might be composed of plumbers while another might be composed of chefs. So instead of hiring a staff of product specialists who are knowledgeable about a limited set of products the embodiments disclosed herein allow a business to contract with various topic assistance entities to provide assistance about a wide range of products services and other topics. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes one or more computing devices in data communication with one or more client devices and one or more client devices by way of a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. A plurality of computing devices together may comprise for example a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below. The data stored in the data store includes for example a specialist listing and page analysis data as well as potentially other data. The specialist listing contains information about persons who specialize in or have expertise in various subject matter or topic areas. Examples of an entry in the specialist listing include a phone number at which the person can be reached a subject matter or topic area in which the person is knowledgeable and educational or work experience qualifications of the subject matter specialist. The specialist listing may be implemented as a database and in such cases may be indexed by topic or by any other suitable field. The page analysis data contains information obtained by analyzing the contents of network pages such as keywords relationships between keywords frequency of keywords etc.

The components executed on the computing device for example include a page topic identifier module a specialist locator module and a call center server . The page topic identifier module is executed to analyze a network page such as a web page and to determine at least one topic of that network page. The page topic identifier module uses previously collected page analysis data in performing this analysis. To gather this page analysis data the page topic identifier module may crawl or traverse network pages stored anywhere on the network and or on the Internet. The specialist locator module is executed to identify a topic or subject matter specialist given a topic. The specialist locator module may also be executed to determine a phone number at which the topic specialist can be reached. The call center server is executed to route and connect calls from a client device operated by an end user to a client device operated by a topic specialist. The topic specialist can thus be viewed as a call agent with respect to the call center server .

Calls between customers and topic specialists are carried on a data network such as the network . The call center server may utilize features such as automatic call distribution and interactive voice response in the process of routing a call between a mobile customer and a subject matter specialist. In some embodiments the call center server is implemented using a set of protocols referred to as Voice over Internet Protocol VolP . The VoIP protocols may include but are not limited to Session Initiation Protocol SIP Session Description Protocol SDP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP Real time Transport Control Protocol RTCP IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Media Gateway Control Protocol MGCP and International Telecommunication Union ITU H.323.

In various embodiments the call center server and the specialist locator module may utilize any type of middleware framework to communicate with each other. Similarly the call center server the specialist locator module and the page topic identifier module may utilize any type of middleware framework to communicate with application executing on a client device such as the topic assistance application . Examples of such frameworks include remote procedure calls service oriented architecture protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST Windows Communication Foundation and other frameworks. Although described herein as separate components the functionality of the call center server the specialist locator module and the page topic identifier module can also be combined as should be appreciated.

The client device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a smart phone a set top box a music player a video player a media player a web pad a tablet computer system a game console an electronic book reader or other devices with like capability.

The client device may be configured to execute various applications such as a topic assistance application and a browser . The client device may be configured to execute other applications such as for example email applications instant message applications navigation applications and or other applications. The browser may be executed in a client device for example to access and render network pages or other network content served up by a network page server application thereby generating a rendered network page . The topic assistance application may be executed in the client device to facilitate a user contacting a topic specialist in order to obtain assistance or more information about a particular topic related to a network page . To this end the topic assistance application may interact with the call center server . The topic assistance application may be implemented as a standalone application may be executed in the context of the browser or may be integrated with the browser as should be appreciated.

The client device may be configured to execute various applications such as a call agent application and or other applications. The call agent application may be executed in the client device to answer phone calls that originate from customers. To this end the call agent application may interact with the call center server . During the call the call agent application may provide the topic specialist with information that identifies the topic of the call. The client device may be configured to execute other applications such as for example browsers email applications instant message applications navigation applications and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a user interacts with the browser executing in a client device to view a network page . The user then interacts with the topic assistance application executing in a client device to make a phone call in order to obtain assistance for a particular topic on the network page . The customer is not required to identify the topic. Instead components executing on the computing device determine the topic of interest by analyzing the contents of the network page as described in further detail below. The network page may be the currently rendered page or may be a previously viewed page. If the call relates to a previously viewed page the user marks the particular network page in some way to indicate to the topic assistance application which network page is the subject of the phone call.

The topic assistance application then sends a call request which includes an identifier of the network page to the call center server executing on the computing device . The call center server uses the services of the page topic identifier module to identify a topic or topics of the network page . In some embodiments the page topic identifier module identifies a single primary topic and then the call is placed to a specialist for that primary topic. In other embodiments the page topic identifier module identifies multiple candidate topics and the user is prompted to select one of the candidate topics before the call goes through to an appropriate topic specialist.

Having identified the page topic the call center server uses the services of the specialist locator module to find a particular person who has knowledge about the topic. The call center server then fulfills the customer s request for assistance by routing the phone call to the identified specialist. The topic may be an item such as a product or product category so that the topic specialist can be viewed as an item specialist or product specialist. The network page which is the subject of the call is part of a network site operated by a particular entity or business as should be appreciated. Thus the topic specialist returned by the specialist locator module may be an employee of the entity operating the network site. However this is not a requirement and the topic specialist returned by the specialist locator module may be a third party provider. The embodiments disclosed herein thus allow a user to obtain assistance from a virtually unlimited number of topic specialists.

Once the call between the mobile user and the topic specialist is established the call proceeds in the conventional fashion. The phone call may include audio video multimedia or a combination thereof. The video portion of the call may utilize a camera or other video capture device located in the client device . The call may include or be associated with data other than audio or video. For example the topic specialist may send data to the client device for example in the form of a network page. In this manner the topic specialist can provide information about a product during the call.

With reference now to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the call center server executing on the computing device according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the call center server as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning at box the call center server receives an incoming call request from the topic assistance application executing on a client device . The call center server may support various types of calls as should be appreciated. For example the call may include a voice channel a video channel a data channel and or other channels. The call request includes an identifier of a particular network page on the client device . The identifier may be for example a uniform resource locator URL or a uniform resource identifier URI .

Next at box the call center server uses the page identifier in the call request to retrieve the corresponding network page . The location of the network page is not limited to local storage of the computing device . Instead the network page referenced in the call request may be stored in any location that is accessible to the call center server for example through the network . Since the network may be interconnected with the Internet the network page retrieved at box could reside anywhere in the world. In this manner the user that is interacting with the topic assistance application can obtain topic assistance for a virtually unlimited number of network pages .

At box the call center server uses the services of the page topic identifier module to dynamically identify the topic of the network page . The page topic identifier module performs semantic analysis on the content of the network page to identify one or more keywords on the page. The page topic identifier module uses data collected from previous analysis of network pages stored as page analysis data . However the page analysis data is not limited to data derived from network pages but may also include a priori data for example an ontology describing a set of concepts within a domain and the relationships between those concepts.

As should be appreciated the semantic analysis performed at box may use various known techniques e.g. those used by search engines to identify words and phrases with in the page and then to determine which words or phrases are important enough to be considered keywords. The page topic identifier module then determines the topic of the network page from these keywords. The page topic identifier module may select one of the keywords to be the topic or may choose as the topic another keyword that is related in some way to the keywords on the network page . For example for a page containing keywords engagement and diamond ring the page topic identifier module may choose wedding to be the topic. Various algorithms can be used to make these choices as should be appreciated. The page topic identifier module may use a taxonomy or hierarchy in order to determine a topic. For example the network page may include the keywords toilet and auger which are listed in the taxonomy as items in the category plumbing. Thus the page topic identifier module may identify toilet and auger as candidate topics and then use the taxonomy to discover where the candidate topics fit into the hierarchy. The page topic identifier module may then choose plumbing as the topic for the network page rather than the candidate topics toiler or auger. In some embodiments the page topic identifier module may prefer topics that are at a higher level over topics at a lower level.

In some embodiments the page topic identifier module takes into account not just the particular network page identified in the call request but other network pages previously viewed by the caller. For example if the network page identified in the call request relates to plumbing hoses and previously viewed network pages related to washer dryer appliances the page topic identifier module may determine that the topic of the network page is washer dryer parts rather than plumbing in general. In embodiments which take into account previously viewed network pages the call request may also include a user identifier for the caller. The page topic identifier module can then use the user identifier to obtain the caller s browse history. The browse history may be stored on the client device or may be stored remotely for example on the Internet. If stored on the client device the page topic identifier module and or the call center server may request the browse history from the browser .

Next at box the call center server uses the services of the specialist locator module to identify a topic specialist based on the topic identified in box . In some embodiments the specialist locator module maps directly from the topic to the contact phone number for the topic specialist. In other embodiments the specialist locator module maps from the topic to the specialist and then from the specialist to a contact phone number for the specialist. In various embodiments the mapping function may be distributed between the specialist locator module and the call center server .

Next at box the call center server establishes a call between the client device and the phone number of the identified topic specialist. At box the call center server notifies the topic assistance application that the call has been connected. At some later point in time at box the call is terminated at the direction of either the mobile customer or the topic specialist. The process of is then complete.

Moving on to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the page topic identifier module the specialist locator module the call center server and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor . While not illustrated the client device and the client device also include components like those shown in where by the topic assistance application the browser and the call agent application are stored in a memory and executable by a processor.

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the page topic identifier module the specialist locator module the call center server the topic assistance application the call agent application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the page topic identifier module the specialist locator module and or the call center server . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including page topic identifier module the specialist locator module the call center server the topic assistance application and the call agent application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

