---

title: Application-specific mobile data allocation
abstract: Mobile devices may obtain applications from an application market infrastructure. The applications may consume data from a data allocation that has been purchased from a mobile data provider. A user may assign a sub-allocation of the data allocation with a specific application, for use by the application. When the sub-allocation is depleted, the application may alert the user and also give the user an opportunity to purchase additional data. If the user accepts an offer to purchase additional data, the application calls the application market infrastructure to process a purchase transaction for the additional data. The application market infrastructure interacts with the user to complete the transaction and then instructs the mobile data provider to allocation additional data to the mobile device of the user, which is then added to the sub-allocation associated with the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591145&OS=09591145&RS=09591145
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09591145
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150430
---
Many mobile device users have to closely monitor their application usage to avoid using up limited prepaid data plans leading to diminished customer experiences reduced usage of applications and a reluctance to try out new applications or features that may consume a lot of data.

Mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are often configured to access remote network resources using metered data plans. Users of such devices are billed for mobile data in accordance with the amount of data that is transferred to and from their mobile devices. Mobile data usage may be measured in units of bytes such as megabytes gigabytes terabytes etc.

A user of a mobile device may purchase an amount of mobile data for one or more mobile devices. The purchased amount may be referred to as a mobile data allocation. In some cases mobile data is purchased on a subscription basis where the user is allocated a given amount of data per subscription period. If the user consumes the entire data allocation before the end of the subscription period they may be given the opportunity to purchase an additional allocation of mobile data for use during the remainder of the subscription period.

In other cases mobile data may be purchased on a pre paid non subscription basis where the user purchases a data allocation that may be used over time. When the purchased data allocation has been consumed the user purchases a new allocation.

A mobile device may be associated with a market infrastructure that allows the user of the device to obtain and install various aftermarket and or third party mobile applications on the mobile device. A mobile application is a program that is obtained installed and executed on the mobile device. Mobile applications may be provided by numerous independent developers for distribution and sale using the market infrastructure. Mobile applications may be available for a wide range of purposes including such things as news and weather reporting gaming finance photography health music and video shopping travel education and many others. Some mobile applications may be free while other applications may be for sale.

An application market infrastructure may maintain a billing account for each user. The billing account has information regarding the user such as payment information and which of the available applications the user has obtained or purchased. When purchasing a mobile application the market infrastructure can automatically charge the user based on the stored payment information without requiring the user to re enter a payment method.

Certain mobile applications may allow so called in app purchases from the market infrastructure. As an example an application may allow a user to purchase additional content or capabilities thereby expanding the functionality of the application.

In app purchases are facilitated by the market infrastructure. Generally the mobile application is responsible for presenting purchasable items and allowing the user to select one of the items for purchase. If the user indicates that they would like to purchase one of the items the mobile application calls the market infrastructure which manages the purchase flow by implementing secure communications with the mobile application performing payment processing keeping track of purchases and providing verification to the mobile application of the in app purchases. After the market infrastructure completes the purchase transaction the mobile application is responsible for enabling or obtaining the purchased item.

The market infrastructure may also support in app purchases of mobile data allocations. A mobile application may be configured to monitor the remaining mobile data available to the mobile device under a current mobile data allocation and to prompt the user to purchase additional mobile data upon depletion of the current mobile data allocation. When a user indicates that they would like to purchase additional mobile data the mobile application calls the market infrastructure to initiate a purchase transaction. The market infrastructure conducts the purchase transaction using the billing information associated with the account of the user and upon completion of the transaction authorizes a mobile data provider to provide the additional data allocation for use by the mobile device.

In addition to monitoring overall data usage a mobile device may be configured to monitor data usage by individual applications. Furthermore a sub allocation of the aggregate mobile data allocation may be associated with an application and the application may be prohibited from using data beyond its associated sub allocation. The mobile device or the application may be configured to detect depletion of the application sub allocation and to prompt a user to initiate an in app purchase of additional data to replenish the sub allocation. In some cases the sub allocation of an application may be reserved for exclusive use by the application so that other applications are prohibited from using data from the sub allocation.

In some cases a user of the mobile device may allocate available data based on personal preferences. For example the user may decide that they want to use only a certain amount of their data for specific applications. In other cases a parent or other responsible person may specify allocations for certain applications. For example a parent may configure a child s mobile device to use only a certain allocation of data for a game installed on the mobile device and to prohibit the game from using data beyond that allocation. In particular the parent may configure the mobile device so that the game is allocated data only from a pool of free data available to the device and is prohibited from using additional data that may result in usage charges. As another example a work related application installed on a personal mobile device may be configured to use data from an allocation that is provided and paid for by an employer. As yet another example non work related applications installed on an employer provided mobile device may be restricted to using data from an allocation that is paid for by an employee. Usage allocations and restrictions are specified either by the user of the mobile device or by another person or entity who is associated with the mobile device such as a parent or employer and not by the market infrastructure.

The mobile device may comprise a smartphone a tablet computer or any other type of device that has capabilities for receiving data from and or sending data to remote entities based on a metered or allocated data usage plan. In the described embodiments the mobile device communicates wirelessly using cellular data technologies such as GSM HSPA LTE etc. which are enabled and metered by the mobile data provider .

For purposes of illustration shows the mobile data provider as having a service gateway . The illustrated service gateway represents the communications infrastructure provided by the mobile data provider which connects the mobile device with a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The mobile device communicates with the infrastructure service through the WAN .

The market infrastructure may include various components in addition to those shown including both hardware and software components. Generally various functions described herein as being performed by the market infrastructure may be performed or supported by either or both of the infrastructure service and the infrastructure agent . In the described embodiment the market infrastructure receives application purchase requests from multiple devices where each application purchase request is a request to obtain an application for execution by a device. In response to receiving the application purchase requests the market infrastructure provides the requested applications to the requesting devices while in some cases also processing purchase transactions to charge users of the devices for the provided applications.

The market infrastructure implements or supports a user interface through which a user of the mobile device may browse and select from mobile applications that are available from the infrastructure service . In some cases the user interface may comprise a website that is available through a web browser. In other cases the user interface may be at least partially implemented by an application that executes on the mobile device . In either case the user of the device is able to browse the available applications to see descriptions of the applications to download selected ones of the applications from the infrastructure service to install the selected applications on the mobile device and to run the selected applications on the mobile device . shows an example of an installed application that has been installed on the mobile device in this manner. Generally the installed application may be any application that has been obtained by and installed by the customer. In the described embodiment the application comprises an application that has been downloaded from the infrastructure service and installed on the mobile device . The illustrated application is an example of multiple such applications that may be installed concurrently on the mobile device .

The market infrastructure may support in app purchases which are purchases by the user of content features or capabilities that are offered from within installed applications. As an example the installed application may comprise a game application having enhanced or additional features that can be purchased. For example a user may be able to purchase additional powers for a character in a game.

For an in app purchase the installed application is responsible for presenting a catalog of available purchasable items to the user. The user selects a purchasable item and the installed application invokes the application market infrastructure such as by calling the infrastructure agent to manage the actual purchase flow. The market infrastructure has a transaction processing component that manages the purchase workflow starting from when the user indicates a decision to purchase the item and ending when the market infrastructure informs the installed application that the purchase has been successfully completed. The transaction processing component also performs payment processing using a payment method that has been previously specified by the user of the mobile device . Upon completion of the purchase transaction the transaction processing component notifies the application that the item has been purchased and paid for. The application then downloads installs and or enables the purchased item.

The application market infrastructure may maintain billing accounts for respective users. The billing account for a particular user may specify a payment method for the user such as credit card information of the user. When completing a purchase transaction the transaction processing component may authenticate the user and then automatically use the payment method specified by the billing account to charge the user for in app purchases.

Billing information specified by the billing account of a user may be used for purchasing any of the applications and for in app purchases from within installed applications. Note that some of the applications may be offered at no charge but may nevertheless offer in app purchasing opportunities.

The billing information specified by the billing account of a user may also be used for in app purchases of mobile data allocations. The mobile device may be configured to consume data from a data allocation provided by the mobile data provider . The allocation may be for a fixed amount of data per billing period or may be for an amount that may be used over an arbitrary time period. More specifically the data allocation associated with the mobile device may be subscription based or prepaid. In a subscription based plan the user pays a monthly amount and is given a monthly data allocation. In a prepaid plan the user purchases a one time data allocation uses data from the allocation over any length of time and then purchases an additional allocation.

The mobile data provider may have a provisioning component that supervises data allocations to the different mobile devices serviced by the mobile data provider . A provider agent monitors data consumption and determines remaining unused amounts of the data allocation. The provider agent may comprise a software component that runs on the mobile device and that communicates with the mobile data provider to determine the remaining data allocation available for use by the mobile device . A user of the mobile device may be able to access this information to determine whether the current data allocation is nearly depleted. In addition the installed application may communicate with the provider agent and or with the mobile data provider to detect a depletion of the current data allocation. Communications between the application the provider agent or mobile data provider may be facilitated by the user of APIs exposed by the provider agent and or mobile data provider .

In some embodiments the infrastructure agent may expose APIs that are called by the application to determine the remaining data allocation available to the mobile device . The infrastructure agent may in turn be configured to obtain this information by querying or communicating with the mobile data provider or the provider agent using APIs exposed by the mobile data provider or the provider agent .

Upon detecting depletion of the current data allocation for the mobile device such as by determining that the unused portion of the data allocation is beneath a threshold the installed application may initiate an in app purchase in order to increase the data allocation from the mobile data provider . For example the application may prompt the user of the mobile device with options for purchasing different amounts of additional data. If the user responds affirmatively the installed application may communicate with the infrastructure agent and or the infrastructure service to initiate an in app purchase of the additional data. The market infrastructure may complete the purchase of the additional data by displaying user dialogs on the mobile device prompting the user for identification transferring funds from the user to the mobile data provider and so forth. Once the transaction has been completed the market infrastructure may notify the provisioning component of the mobile data provider of the purchase and may instruct the mobile data provider to provide or activate the newly purchased or newly increased allocation.

The mobile device may also have a per app usage monitor that monitors data usage by each of multiple applications that are installed on the mobile device . The per app usage monitor may be configurable by a user of the mobile device to define a sub allocation of the overall or aggregate mobile data application of the device where the data sub allocation is then associated with the application and assigned for use by the installed application . In some cases the per app usage monitor may enforce data usage rules such as by preventing the installed application from using data beyond its sub allocation and or by preventing applications from using sub allocations of other applications.

The installed application may be configured to communicate with the per app usage monitor to determine the remaining data sub allocation of the installed application and to detect depletion of the sub allocation. For example the application may detect depletion of its sub allocation by comparing the remaining unused amount of the sub allocation to a depletion threshold. The sub allocation is deemed to be depleted when the remaining unused amount of the sub allocation is below the threshold.

Upon detecting a depletion of the sub allocation associated with the installed application the installed application or another component of the mobile device may initiate a purchase of an additional mobile device data allocation. For example the application may prompt the user of the mobile device with options for purchasing different amounts of additional data. If the user responds affirmatively the installed application may communicate with the infrastructure agent and or the infrastructure service to initiate an in app purchase of the additional data. The market infrastructure may complete the purchase of the additional data by displaying user dialogs on the mobile device prompting the user for identification transferring funds from the user to the mobile data provider and so forth. Once the transaction has been completed the market infrastructure may notify the provisioning component of the mobile data provider of the purchase and may instruct the mobile data provider to provide or activate the newly purchased or newly increased allocation. In addition the newly purchased allocation may be added to the sub allocation of the installed application by the per app usage monitor .

The per app usage monitor may comprise a software component that runs as a background service on the mobile device . In some cases the per app usage monitor may comprise an application that is obtained from the infrastructure service and installed on the mobile device . In some cases some of the functionality of the per app usage monitor may be performed or supported by the market infrastructure .

An action comprises browsing the applications that are available on the infrastructure service . The action may be performed from the mobile device using a dedicated application of the mobile device such as an application created and provided by the market infrastructure . Alternatively the action may be performed using an Internet browser from the mobile device . In some situations the action may be performed using an Internet browser of a device other than the mobile device such as a desktop computer or other computer. During the action the market infrastructure provides information relating to the various applications that are available from the infrastructure service and presents opportunities for the user to purchase or otherwise obtain any of the applications .

An action comprises generating an application purchase request and providing the request to the application market infrastructure to provide one of the applications that a user has selected during the browsing action . In the environment of the request and any other communications between the mobile device and the infrastructure service are performed using the WAN .

In response to receiving the application purchase request the infrastructure service performs an action of initiating and processing a purchase transaction based on the billing account information associated with the user of the mobile device . The action may comprise interacting with the user to obtain authorization for the purchase of the application and for obtaining payment information. In some cases the payment information may be obtained from the previously configured billing account information . The action may further comprising charging the user for the application using the payment method specified by the billing account of the user. After completing the purchase transaction an action comprises providing the application to the mobile device . For example the application may be provided as a download to the mobile device .

An action performed by the mobile device comprises receiving installing and executing the application.

An action comprises from within the installed application prompting the user of the mobile device to purchase an item. The item may comprise content or functionality of the installed application . In response to receiving an indication from the user to purchase the item an action is performed of generating an item purchase request and providing the item purchase request to the market infrastructure to purchase the item. The item purchase request specifies the item that the user wants to purchase.

In response to receiving the item purchase request the market infrastructure performs an action of processing a purchase transaction with the user of the mobile device . The action may comprise interacting with the user to obtain authorization for the purchase of the application and for obtaining payment information. In some cases the payment information may be obtained from the previously configured billing account information . After completing the purchase transaction an action comprises informing the installed application that the purchase transaction has been successfully completed.

An action performed by the application comprises obtaining and or enabling the purchased item. For example this may comprise downloading content to be presented by the application . As another example the action may comprise enabling a feature or functionality of the application .

An action comprises detecting depletion of the current data allocation for the mobile device . This action may comprise communicating with a component of the mobile data provider such as the provider agent that executes on the mobile device to determine the remaining available amount of the data allocation available for use by the mobile device . The action may further comprise comparing the available amount to a threshold. If the remaining amount is above the threshold the action is repeated in a loop or at periodic intervals to monitor data allocation availability over time.

If the remaining amount is below the threshold an action is performed of prompting the user of the mobile device to purchase an increase in the data allocation for the mobile device. The action may comprise displaying a dialog from within the application. The dialog may present different purchase options corresponding to different amounts of data. The dialog may also indicate the price of each option. The user may select one of the presented options to initiate a purchase process.

In response to receiving a selection by the user of a data allocation that they want to purchase an action is performed of generating a data purchase request and providing the data purchase request to the application market infrastructure to initiate a purchase transaction for the selected increase in the data allocation. In some cases the installed application may communicate with the market infrastructure via the infrastructure agent such as by calling an application programming interface API of the infrastructure agent. In the environment of the infrastructure agent may in turn communicate with the infrastructure service using the WAN . The data purchase request may specify the purchase option that the user has selected such as by specifying a product identifier or code corresponding to a data allocation package that is available from the mobile data provider .

In response to receiving the data purchase request the market infrastructure performs an action of processing a purchase transaction with the user of the mobile device for the increase in the data allocation. The action may comprise interacting with the user to obtain authorization for the purchase of the application and for obtaining payment information. The action may further comprising charging the user for the increase in the data allocation using the payment method specified by the billing account of the user.

After completing the purchase transaction an action comprises notifying and authorizing the mobile data provider to provide the purchased data allocation and or to increase the data allocation that is available to the mobile device .

An action performed by the mobile data provider comprises receiving the authorization for the purchased data allocation. In response to receiving the authorization the mobile data provider performs an action of provisioning or otherwise providing the purchased data allocation for use by the mobile device .

The action may include performing financial accounting and reporting to account for the purchase of the data allocation. Payments to the mobile data provider may be made on behalf of the market infrastructure to compensate the mobile data provider for the purchased data. The market infrastructure may in some cases retain a certain amount of the purchase price as a commission.

The installed application that initiates the in app purchase for an increased data allocation may comprise any of various types of applications. As an example the installed application may comprise a game application that executes on the mobile device to implement a game. A game such as this may consume data by transferring data with a game server. In some cases a game may exchange real time game data with a game server and or with other devices who are participating in a common game. As another example the installed application may comprise a media player application that consumes data by receiving media data such as audio and video from an online media server or service. As another example the installed application may comprise a e book reader that consumes data by receiving the text of books from an online server or service.

In some cases a particular installed application may be configured to initiate purchases for in app items as well as for additional data allocations. For example a game application may initiate in app purchases for game capabilities or features. The same game application may also initiate a separate in app purchase for an additional data allocation. Similarly a media player application may initiate in app purchase for content as well as for additional data allocations.

An action comprises obtaining the application from the application market infrastructure . As an example the application may be obtained in accordance with the method of .

An action comprises defining a sub allocation of the mobile data allocation of the mobile device for association with and use by the application obtained in the action . As an example the per app usage monitor of may be configured to present a user interface that allows a user to define a data sub allocation for each of multiple installed applications . In some cases the sub allocation may be specified as a maximum amount of data consumption measured in units such as bytes. In other cases the sub allocation may be specified as a percentage of the aggregate mobile data allocation available to the device .

An action comprises running the obtained application on the mobile device wherein the application consumes data from the mobile data allocation available to the mobile device .

An action comprises deducting the amount of data consumed by the application from the sub allocation associated with the application . More specifically as the application consumes data the data is subtracted from the sub allocation associated with the application .

An action comprises detecting a depletion of the sub allocation associated with the application . For example the action may comprise the application communicating with the per app usage monitor to determine the remaining unused amount of the sub allocation and comparing the amount to a depletion threshold. If the remaining amount is at least as great as the depletion threshold the method returns to the action so that the application continues to consume further data that is in turn deducted from the sub allocation of the application .

If the remaining amount of unused data of the sub allocation is less than the depletion threshold an action is performed of initiating a purchase of an increase in the mobile device data allocation of the device . The actions and may be performed in accordance with the method of as already described where the action is replaced by the action . In some cases the application may prompt the user to purchase additional data and in response to confirmation by the user may communicate with a component of the application market infrastructure to request that the application market infrastructure conduct a purchase transaction with the user for purchasing the increase in the device data allocation. In other cases the per app usage monitor may initiate a transaction for purchasing additional data by requesting that the application market infrastructure conduct a purchase transaction with the user. In other cases either the application or the per app usage monitor may communicate directly with the mobile data provider and or with the provider agent to initiate a purchase of the increase in the mobile device data allocation.

After completing a purchase transaction for an increase in the mobile data allocation of the device an action is performed of adding at least a portion of the increase to the sub allocation associated with the application for use by the application . In some cases all or part of the additionally purchased data allocation may be added to the sub allocation of the application and reserved for exclusive use by the application and other applications may be prohibited and prevented from using data from the sub allocation.

An action comprises detecting depletion of the sub allocation. The action may be performed by communicating with the per app usage monitor and comparing the remaining unused amount of the sub allocation associated with the application to a depletion threshold. If the remaining amount is at least as great as the depletion threshold the method returns to the action so that the application continues to consume further data that is in turn deducted from the sub allocation of the application by the per app usage monitor. Otherwise if the sub allocation has become depleted an action is performed of initiating a purchase of an increase in the device data allocation. The action may comprise an in app purchase of additional data as described with reference to . As already described all or a portion of the additionally purchased data is added to the sub allocation of the application .

The computing resources provided by the infrastructure service may include various types of resources such as data processing resources data storage resources networking resources data communication resources and the like. Each type of computing resource may be general purpose or may be available in a number of specific configurations. For example and as will be described in greater detail below data processing resources may be available as virtual machine instances in a number of different configurations. The virtual machine instances may be configured to execute applications including Web servers application servers media servers database servers and other types of applications. Data storage resources may include file storage devices block storage devices and the like. Each type or configuration of a virtual machine instance of a computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity.

The computing resources provided by infrastructure service are enabled in one implementation by one or more data centers A N which may be referred to herein singularly as a data center or collectively as the data centers . The data centers are facilities utilized to house and operate computer systems and associated components. The data centers typically include redundant and backup power communications cooling and security systems. The data centers might also be located in geographically disparate locations. One illustrative configuration for a data center that implements some or all of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein will be described below with reference to .

The users and customers of infrastructure service may access the computing resources provided by the data centers over the WAN . Although the WAN has been described as being at least partially implemented by wireless technologies numerous other technologies may be used for communications between the mobile devices and the infrastructure service including wired technologies. It should also be appreciated that combinations of various interconnected networks may be utilized when communicating between the mobile devices and the infrastructure service .

In one example some of the computing resources are virtual machine instances. As known in the art a virtual machine instance is an instance of a software implementation of a machine i.e. a computer that executes programs like a physical machine. Each of the server computers may be configured to execute an instance manager not shown capable of instantiating and managing computing resources and instances of computing resources. In the case of virtual machine instances for example the instance manager might be a hypervisor or another type of program configured to enable the execution of multiple virtual machine instances on a single server computer for example.

It should be appreciated that although the examples disclosed herein are described primarily in the context of virtual machine instances other types computing resources can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For instance the technologies disclosed herein might be utilized with hardware resources data storage resources data communications resources networking resources database resources and with other types of computing resources.

The data center shown in also includes a supervisory server computer F reserved for executing software components for managing the operation of the data center the server computers virtual machine instances and other resources within the infrastructure service . In this regard it should be appreciated that while these components are illustrated as executing within infrastructure service computing systems that are external to infrastructure service might also be utilized to execute some or all of these components.

In the example data center shown in an appropriate local area network LAN is utilized to interconnect the server computers A E and the supervisory server computer F. The LAN is also connected to the WAN .

It should be appreciated that the configuration and network topology illustrated in have been greatly simplified and that many more computing systems networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. Appropriate load balancing devices or software modules might also be utilized for balancing a load between each of the data centers A N between each of the server computers A F in each data center and between virtual machine instances and other types of computing resources provided by the infrastructure service .

It should be appreciated that the data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might also be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality provided by these components might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The computer may include a baseboard or motherboard which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication paths. In one illustrative example one or more central processing units CPUs operate in conjunction with a chipset . The CPUs may be standard programmable processors that perform arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer .

The CPUs perform operations by transitioning from one discrete physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states such as flip flops and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits including registers adders subtractors arithmetic logic units floating point units and the like.

The chipset provides an interface between the CPUs and the remainder of the components and devices on the baseboard . The chipset may provide an interface to a RAM used as the main memory in the computer . The chipset may further provide an interface to a computer readable storage medium such as a read only memory ROM or non volatile RAM NVRAM for storing basic routines that help to startup the computer and to transfer information between the various components and devices. The ROM or NVRAM may also store other software components necessary for the operation of the computer in accordance with the examples described herein.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through a network such as a network . The chipset may include functionality for providing network connectivity through a network interface such as a gigabit Ethernet adapter a WiFi interface and or a cellular data interface. The network interface is capable of connecting the computer to other computing devices over the network . It should be appreciated that multiple network interfaces may be present in the computer connecting the computer to various types of networks and remote computer systems.

The computer may be connected to a data store such as a data store that provides non volatile storage for the computer. The data store may store system programs application programs other program modules and data which have been described in greater detail herein. The data store may be connected to the computer through a storage controller connected to the chipset . The data store may consist of one or more physical storage units. The storage controller may interface with the physical storage units through a serial attached SCSI SAS interface a serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface a fiber channel FC interface or other type of interface for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and physical storage units.

The computer may store data on the data store by transforming the physical state of the physical storage units to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of physical state may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the physical storage units whether the data store is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like.

For example the computer may store information to the data store by issuing instructions through the storage controller to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive unit the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage unit or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor transistor or other discrete component in a solid state storage unit. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this description. The computer may further read information from the data store by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the physical storage units.

In addition to the data store described above the computer may have access to other computer readable storage media to store and retrieve information such as program modules data structures or other data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable storage media is any available media that provides for the non transitory storage of data and that may be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology compact disc ROM CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD high definition DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information in a non transitory fashion.

The data store may store an operating system utilized to control the operation of the computer . According to one example the operating system comprises the LINUX operating system. According to another example the operating system comprises the WINDOWS SERVER operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation. According to further examples the operating system may comprise the UNIX operating system or the ANDROID mobile operating system. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized. The data store may store other system or application programs and data utilized by the computer such as the software components and data described above with reference to the mobile device and the infrastructure service .

The data store may also store one or more applications that are executable by the CPUs to perform the specialized functionality described above. For example such applications may comprise the installed application the infrastructure agent the provider agent the user interface the transaction processing component and so forth. The data store may also include repositories of the applications as well as database representing the user billing accounts .

In one example the data store or other computer readable storage media is encoded with computer executable instructions which when loaded into the computer transform the computer from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computer capable of implementing the examples described herein. These computer executable instructions transform the computer by specifying how the CPUs transition between states as described above. According to one example the computer has access to computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions which when executed by the computer perform the various routines described above with regard to . The computer might also include computer readable storage media for performing any of the other computer implemented operations described herein.

The computer may also include one or more input output controllers for receiving and processing input from a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a touchpad a touch screen an electronic stylus or other type of input device. Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display such as a computer monitor a flat panel display a digital projector a printer a plotter or other type of output device.

It will be appreciated that the computer may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features described. Rather the specific features are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the claims.

