---

title: System and method for collecting feedback in a multi-tenant communication platform
abstract: Systems and methods for updating a communication routing engine of a multi-tenant communication platform system. Responsive to a feedback message provided by an external system associated with a first account of the communication platform system, a communication routing engine of the communication platform system is updated based on the received feedback message. The feedback message relates to a first communication initiated on behalf of the first account of the communication platform system, and the first communication is initiated with a first communication route. The updated communication routing engine routes communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516101&OS=09516101&RS=09516101
owner: Twilio, Inc.
number: 09516101
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150707
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 021 639 filed on 7 Jul. 2014 which is incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

This invention relates generally to the communication feedback field and more specifically to a new and useful system and method for collecting feedback in a multi tenant communication platform in the communication feedback field.

Communication applications have provided ways for users to provide feedback on the quality of a call. However such feedback is limited to impacting that particular application. In cases where applications are built on other communication infrastructure the applications are prevented from providing feedback that alters the communication infrastructure. Thus there is a need in the communication feedback field to create a new and useful system and method for collecting feedback in a multi tenant communication platform. This invention provides such a new and useful system and method.

As shown in a system for collecting feedback in a multi tenant communication platform of a preferred embodiment can include a communication platform with an account system a feedback API and a communication routing engine . The system is preferably used in the facilitation of communication with at least one endpoint. The system is preferably used in a system where feedback can be acquired from distinct and separate account entities e.g. Account A Account B and Account C of that both use the communication platform e.g. to serve a communication service e.g. one of the communication services of . The system can leverage the feedback of one or more accounts e.g. Account A Account B and Account C of to impact the communication routing. The system can preferably handle generalizing and normalizing feedback such that it can be applied to other accounts that share use of the communication platform e.g. feedback for Account A of can be applied to communication routing of Account B and Account C of .

The communication platform functions to provide any suitable communication service e.g. one of the services of . The communication platform is preferably used for synchronous communication such as telephony voice communication over PSTN SIP WebRTC IP based protocol and or any suitable voice communication channel. The communication can additionally or alternatively facilitate video communication and or other forms of synchronous media or data communication. The communication can additionally or alternatively be used in providing asynchronous communication such as messaging SMS MMS IP based messaging . The communication platform can be used in routing between one or more endpoints. The communication platform may additionally provide communication functionality such as recording dynamic routing application execution TTS services transcription speech recognition conferencing call waiting and or any suitable communication service. In some embodiments the communication platform is a telephony communication platform. In some embodiments the communication platform is similar to the communication platform described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 306 021 issued on 6 Nov. 2012 which is incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

The communication platform preferably includes an account system e.g. which functions to allow distinct accounts e.g. Account A Account B and Account C of to use the communication platform . An account e.g. Account A Account B and Account C of is preferably operated by a developer or application provider that builds an application or service that utilizes the communication platform . For example an account e.g. Account A Account B and Account C of may build a call center application that uses the communication platform to direct customers to customer service representatives. Alternatively the account may be end users of an endpoint e.g. phone number or SIP address that use the communication platform to provide some service. For example an end user may use the communication platform to dynamically direct incoming calls to ring multiple destinations until the first device picks up. Any suitable account hierarchy or division may be used. For example an account may include subaccounts which run different instances of an application with unique configuration. The accounts additionally have specific authentication credentials. API requests and communication is preferably scoped to a particular account. Accordingly feedback provided by one account can be stored and associated with the account.

The feedback API is preferably a set of feedback API calls and or resources that can be used in the setting editing and reading of feedback information. Feedback can preferably be provided for a single communication session a portion of a communication session a communication endpoint a feature of a communication session e.g. conferencing performed well or poorly or for any suitable portion of the communication. Feedback can additionally be reviewed through feedback logs. An account is preferably limited with privileges to interacting with feedback of communication associated with their account.

The feedback API is preferably part of a RESTful API but may alternatively be any suitable API such as SOAP or custom protocol. The RESTful API works according to an HTTP request and response model. HTTP requests or any suitable request communication to the communication platform preferably observe the principles of a RESTful design. RESTful is understood in this document to describe a Representational State Transfer architecture as is known in the art. The RESTful HTTP requests are preferably stateless thus each message communicated contains all necessary information for processing the request and generating a response. The API service can include various resources which act as API endpoints which act as a mechanism for specifying requested information or requesting particular actions. The resources can be expressed as URI s or resource paths. The RESTful API resources can additionally be responsive to different types of HTTP methods such as GET PUT POST and or DELETE. Preferably a call session will have a REST resource which can have feedback subresource where a POST can add feedback for that communication session and a GET to access any feedback information.

The communication routing engine functions to manage the determination and establishment of communication routes. The communication platform will preferably include a variety of routing options. The routing options can include different internal routing options routing a communication within the platform and external routing options. The external routing options may be determined based on which carriers or provider gateways are used in reaching an external endpoint. Additionally or alternatively some directives may be supplied to external communication providers in how a communication should be routed. The communication routing engine preferably includes a communication routing network graph. The communication routing network graph preferably characterizes and maps the routing options. The communication routing network graph can additionally be associated with various routing scores. The routing scores can relate to quality cost priority and other suitable parameters that may be used in selecting a communication route for a communication session.

As shown in a method for collecting feedback in a multi tenant communication platform e.g. of a preferred embodiment can include initiating a first communication on behalf of a first account e.g. Account A Account B and Account C of S receiving a feedback message S and updating a communication routing engine e.g. S. The method can additionally include selecting a second communication route S and initiating a second communication with the second communication route S. The method functions to leverage feedback received from a segment of applications e.g. applications of one or more of Account A Account B and Account C of in a communication platform e.g. to impact the overall communication routing e.g. the routing provided by the communication routing engine for Account A Account B and Account C of . As the account holders may have less incentive to provide feedback rewards can be integrated into the feedback process S . Additionally the quality of feedback may vary between accounts and the method preferably accounts for such differences when assessing the feedback. The method is preferably used in a communication platform such as the one described above e.g. but may alternatively be used with any suitable type of communication platform.

Block S which includes initiating a first communication on behalf of a first account functions to establish a communication session through the communication platform . The first communication is preferably a synchronous communication a communication between at least two endpoints. The communication can alternatively be a group conferencing communication or a communication with one external endpoint to an internal automated endpoint e.g. a media player or text to speech service . The communication can be a voice video chat multimedia or any suitable data communication. The communication may alternatively be an asynchronous communication message. In one variation the communication is a voice communication made over the PSTN or a SIP communication channel. The communication may alternatively use WebRTC or any suitable protocol. The communication may additionally include legs with different protocols. Initiating a first communication preferably includes receiving a communication request and establishing the communication. The communication request may be an inbound communication which may be routed to some internal or external communication endpoint. The communication request may alternatively be a received API request a triggered event from an application a triggered event from an existing communication or any suitable type of event to trigger communication.

Initiating a first communication can additionally include notifying a requesting entity of feedback alert. This variation preferably includes determining the value or worth of feedback for the first communication. In the communication platform various metrics and data may be collected and processed. Some forms of communication may experience different forms of usage which may result in asymmetrical data on the quality of different communication routing decisions. For example calls made to heavily populated areas may be well understood but calls to a new or less popular area may utilize less utilized communication routes carriers which have little or out of date information. Acquiring feedback on communication routes that include segments with little data may benefit from prompting for feedback. As the triggering of feedback is preferably delegated to the account holder systems the communication platform may not have a mechanism to force feedback. A mechanism for inserting feedback control may alternatively be available. An auto feedback collection feature may be enabled for the communication platform or alternatively for specific accounts. In absence or in addition to auto controlled feedback collection feedback alerts may suggest when feedback is recommended.

In one variation the feedback alert may be explicitly represented in a parameter of a response to a requesting entity. For example a feedback status parameter may include possible parameters such as recommended optional or not essential . In another variation the feedback alert may be implicitly represented in other related parameters. For example a predicted quality parameter may indicate the predicted quality. The requesting entity can use good quality prediction as a signal that no feedback is needed. The requesting entity can use a poor quality or unknown quality prediction as a signal that feedback is recommended for the first communication.

As indicated below rewards or communication results may be gained by an account providing feedback. The feedback alert may alternatively provide a metric or information relating to such an award. For example a feedback alert metric may be specified with a rating of zero to five where each value corresponds to some form of result. A metric value of zero may correspond to no reward where five may indicate the communication can be free if feedback is provided.

A first communication is preferably made with a set communication routing setting. As described more below the selection may be made to select the best communication route. However communication route selection may be made to inspect particular routes route settings route segments or any aspect of a route. For example for a given communication from endpoint A to endpoint B a well known and high quality route may be known by the communication routing engine . However a second routing option may have been recently introduced which is another option. That routing option may need evaluation and accordingly the communication routing engine may bias the selection of a communication route to select routing options that promote the collection and updating of route data. The route used is preferably stored so that it may be correlated to the feedback.

Block S which includes receiving a feedback message functions to obtain a message from an account holder e.g. an account holder of one or more of Account A Account B and Account C of that communicates feedback evaluation of a communication. A feedback response is preferably a message made through an API e.g. the feedback API of . As described above the API is preferably a REST API. The feedback message is preferably received from at least a first account but feedback is preferably received from a plurality of accounts e.g. Account A Account B and Account C of on the multi tenant communication platform . The feedback API interface is preferably provided such that account holders e.g. the system of an application developer or service provider can capture feedback from end users one or more participants in a communication session in any suitable manner. The interface or manner in which an end user provides the information can be customized for each account and or situation. For example some account holders may build a user interface such as the interface shown in that is provided in a website or application where users can provide feedback. In another example the feedback from the end users can be captured through DTMF input or voice input provided during or at the end of a communication. The communication platform may not enforce any restrictions on the representation or even mechanism of obtaining input from an end user. Alternatively the response a feedback interface or interaction flow may be provided or directed by the communication platform through the account holder.

The feedback message e.g. is preferably processed and stored. The feedback information of a communication session may additionally be persisted and made accessible through the API e.g. an account holder may access feedback records at any suitable time. The feedback may additionally or alternatively be integrated into a control panel or communication analytics dashboard. The feedback information may additionally be supplemented according to the conditions of how the feedback was received. For example the state of the communication session can be recorded for when a particular feedback message is obtained e.g. during the call end of call or after the call . Additionally obtained quality metrics can be integrated into the feedback information. The communication route may change during a communication session the set of communication route topologies that were present during a session leading up to the feedback may all be tracked.

Block S which includes updating a communication routing engine functions to alter routing metrics and selection processes for future communications. As described above the communication platform preferably includes a variety of communication routing options. Various carriers different internal media communication paths different protocols or communication channel types may provide options when establishing a communication session. The communication routing engine may include a communication routing network graph where the network segments and or nodes can have various scores weights and or other suitable values assigned to them. The scores of the communication routing network graph preferably relate at least partially to the quality assessment provided by the feedback API . The method may apply various approaches to integrating feedback information into the communication routing engine .

The feedback preferably impacts the route used for the first communication which can include internal routing and selection of gateways e.g. the gateways of to carrier communication providers. The feedback may impact a subset of this routing information. For example the feedback may be used to evaluate just carrier selection. The feedback may additionally be used to evaluate partial segments. As will be discussed below the feedback may be part of a segment routing evaluation process to systematically determine quality of particular routing segments. In one variation the communication within the communication platform is executed through a signaling and media protocol such as SIP. The feedback is preferably applied to media routing but may additionally or alternatively be applied to signaling routing aspects. As another aspect the involved endpoints may be factored into the processing of the feedback. Feedback may relate to the pairing of involved endpoints the regional association of involved endpoints set of carriers involved in the communication or any suitable pattern in the communication session. Additionally or alternatively feedback may be isolated to applying to one aspect of the communication. For example if communications from carrier A to B consistently experiences high feedback but communication from carrier A to C receives low quality feedback then the method can assign the low quality feedback to the carrier C routing gateways.

As another variation the feedback may additionally be applied to processing or services applied to a communication. For example the settings for a media processing operation may be altered according to the feedback. As another example transcoding process may be altered according to the feedback.

As another variation the feedback may be conditionally applied to the communication routing engine . Temporal properties may impact the evaluation of the feedback and how the feedback should be processed. In a first instance the feedback may be integrated into the time based evaluation of communication routing. Different communication routing options may be dependent on different temporal patterns. For example a carrier may have heavy call volume during particular time windows. The temporal patterns in feedback can preferably be detected and applied to the quality metrics such that route selection can be a function of time for particular resources. In the example above the carrier is preferably avoided during the time windows of heavy traffic. In a second instance the feedback may not be permanent. Feedback evaluations can expire allowing old or out of date feedback to not permanently bias evaluation of a route.

The feedback may additionally be weighted or otherwise processed according to the associated account. Properties such as account communication volume account feedback history account age account usage location and other properties of an account can be used in determining how feedback should be evaluated. Similarly endpoint association of the feedback can similarly be used. External endpoints that provide feedback may be weighted less than feedback associated with internally managed endpoints. For example a customer service application may have a set of endpoints managed through the communication platform. Feedback provided from callers on these endpoints will likely be customer care representatives of the customer service application and feedback from these users may be more professionally and consistent than feedback from the end users calling into the customer service application. As another aspect of processing feedback according to account feedback with unique account associations may be weighted differently from repeated feedback for a particular route from a single account. Receiving input from a variety of accounts can promote receiving feedback from a variety of use cases. As a potential benefit the diverse feedback can ensure no one account biases the communication routing engine.

The method preferably additionally includes selecting a second communication route S and initiating a second communication S which functions to utilize the updated communication routing engine in subsequent communications. As discussed the method is preferably applied to integrating feedback into a multi tenant communication platform e.g. . Accordingly the second communication can be made on behalf of a second account. The second account can be any suitable account of the communication platform . The second account may have also contributed feedback or may never have contributed feedback. The feedback provided by the second account may or may not relate to the current route options for the second communication. The updated communication routing engine can similarly be used for accounts that have contributed feedback e.g. the first account . Selecting of a communication route can include determining a route. The selection may be based on processing of a plurality of quality metrics and optionally using any suitable network graph search process to find a best route based on one or more quality heuristic function.

Alternatively selection of a second communication route may deliberately be selected to screen different routes and or route segments. A set of different routing options can be used in combination to isolate feedback to a subsection of the routes. As shown in feedback may be received for a first route but the poor quality may not be uniquely assigned to any one segment. Subsequent communication sessions can be selected to isolate feedback responsibility. In the example shown in a node may eventually be associated with the poor quality feedback. This variation preferably involves multiple iterations of the feedback method. Such segment feedback determination preferably involves identifying communication sessions that correspond to matching route options. The communication routing engine can be updated to reflect the intermediary or end result of the segment feedback determination. Such a process may additionally be dependent on which accounts regularly provide feedback. If an opportunity to collect information that can be used in isolating feedback results feedback alert may be supplied in response to a communication request such that the account holder may be notified that feedback is requested. In some cases a communication session may update routing information during a communication session. For example a call may end a connection with one endpoint and connect to a second endpoint or a communication session may be a conferencing communication session and various endpoints come and go. Selection of a second communication route and initiating a second communication can similarly be applied to modification or transitioning of an existing communication session.

The method may additionally include rewarding accounts in response to providing feedback e.g. S of . The reward may include crediting an account. Crediting an account may allocate usage allotments or discounts to the account. For example an account that supplies sufficient amounts of feedback may be rewarded with fees for a number of communications to be waived. The reward may additionally or alternatively include prioritizing communication of the account. Prioritizing communication can include providing higher quality routes giving the account priority when queuing communication requests. Other suitable rewards may alternatively be provided.

As shown in a multi tenant communication platform system for collecting feedback in a multi tenant communication platform includes the communication platform a feedback API a communication routing engine carrier services and carrier gateways . The communication platform includes an accounting system .

In the example embodiment of the communication platform is similar to the communication platform of the feedback API is similar to the feedback API of the communication routing engine is similar to the communication routing engine of the carrier services are similar to the carrier services of the carrier gateways are similar to the carrier gateways of and the accounting system is similar to the accounting system of .

The system is communicatively coupled to each of the external systems via the feedback API and an API of the communication services . The system is communicatively coupled to each of the carriers via a respective one of the carrier gateways .

In the embodiment of each external system is a system of an account holder of an account e.g. Account A Account B Account C Account D of the communication platform . In some implementations each account of the communication platform e.g. Account A Account B Account C Account D is an account that is managed by the account system . In some implementations external systems include a system of an application developer that provides an application to users of the external system. In some implementations external systems include a system of a service provider that provides a service to users of the external system. In some implementations external systems include a communication endpoint e.g. the external system .

In some implementations the communication platform the feedback API the communication routing engine the carrier services the carrier gateways and the accounting system are implemented as a server device. In some implementations the communication platform the feedback API the communication routing engine the carrier services the carrier gateways and the accounting system are implemented as a plurality of server devices communicatively coupled to each other e.g. a computing cluster .

As shown in a method for updating a communication routing engine e.g. of of a multi tenant communication platform system e.g. includes at the multi tenant communication platform system initiating a first communication e.g. on behalf of a first account of the communication platform the first communication being initiated with a first communication route process S receiving a feedback message e.g. provided by an external system e.g. associated with the first account the feedback message relating to the first communication of the first account process S and updating a communication routing engine e.g. of the communication platform based on the received feedback message of the first account process S . The updated communication routing engine e.g. routes communications e.g. of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform. In some implementations the method includes controlling the multi tenant communication platform system to initiate a second communication e.g. the communication of with a second communication route process S .

In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system performs the processes S S S and S and controls the updated communication routing engine to route communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform.

In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S. In some implementations the communication services performs the process S. In some implementations the communication platform and the communication services perform the process S. In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S responsive to a request received via the communication services . In some implementations the communication routing engine selects the first communication route. In some implementations the communication platform selects the first communication route. In some implementations the communication platform and the communication routing engine select the first communication route. In some implementations the communication routing engine determines one or more communication routes and the communication platform selects a determined communication route as the first communication route.

In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S. In some implementations the feedback API performs the process S. In some implementations the communication platform and the feedback API perform the process S. In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S responsive to a request received via the feedback API . In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S responsive to a response received via the feedback API .

In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S. In some implementations the communication routing engine performs the process S. In some implementations the communication platform and the communication routing engine perform the process S. In some implementations the communication platform controls the communication routing engine to perform the process S. In some implementations the communication routing engine performs the process S responsive to control provided by the communication platform .

In some implementations the communication routing engine routes communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform. In some implementations the communication platform and the communication routing engine route communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform. In some implementations the communication platform controls the communication routing engine to route communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform. In some implementations the communication routing engine routes communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform responsive to control provided by the communication platform .

In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S. In some implementations the communication services performs the process S. In some implementations the communication platform and the communication services perform the process S. In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S responsive to a request received via the communication services . In some implementations the communication platform and the communication routing engine perform the process S. In some implementations the communication platform performs the process S responsive to a request received via the communication services .

In some implementations the communication routing engine selects the second communication route. In some implementations the communication platform selects the second communication route. In some implementations the communication platform and the communication routing engine select the second communication route. In some implementations the communication routing engine determines one or more communication routes and the communication platform selects a determined communication route as the second communication route.

In some implementations the feedback API stores feedback information of the feedback message. In some implementations the communication platform bio stores feedback information of the feedback message. In some implementations the communication routing engine stores feedback information of the feedback message.

In some implementations the process S is similar to the process S of . In some implementations the process S is similar to the process S of . In some implementations the process S is similar to the process S of . In some implementations the process S is similar to the processes S and S of .

In some implementations the process S functions to control the multi tenant communication platform system to initiate the first communication e.g. the communication of on behalf of the first account e.g. Account A of of the communication platform and the communication platform system initiates the first communication e.g. with a first communication route.

In some implementations the communication platform system receives a request to initiate the first communication via an API of the communication services and the communication platform system initiates the first communication responsive to the request to initiate the first communication. In some implementations the communication platform system receives an inbound communication e.g. via the communication services via a call router of the system and the like and the communication platform system initiates the first communication responsive to the inbound communication. In some implementations an application of the communication platform triggers an event and the communication platform system initiates the first communication responsive to detection of the triggered event. In some implementations an existing communication of the communication platform triggers an event and the communication platform system initiates the first communication responsive to detection of the triggered event.

In some implementations the communication platform system uses the communication routing engine to initiate the first communication. In some implementations the communication routing engine routes the first communication to some internal or external communication endpoint. In some implementations the first communication is made with a set communication routing setting as described above for S of . In some implementations the system selects a communication route based on stored feedback information e.g. the feedback information of the feedback information of .

In some implementations the system selects the first communication route by determining at least one candidate route and selecting a determined candidate route. In some implementations the system selects the first communication route based on processing of a plurality of quality metrics. In some implementations the system selects the first communication route based on processing of a plurality of quality metrics and performing a network graph search process to determine a best route by applying at least one quality heuristic function to the quality metrics. In some implementations the system selects the first communication route based on processing of quality metrics of a feedback information e.g. the feedback information of of a plurality of feedback messages. In some implementations the system selects the first communication route based on processing of quality metrics of a feedback information e.g. the feedback information of of a plurality of feedback messages and performing a network graph search process to determine a best route by applying at least one quality heuristic function to the quality metrics. In some implementations the system selects the first communication route by screening different routes and or route segments based on feedback information e.g. the feedback information of of received feedback messages as described above for and S of . In some implementations the system biases selection of the first communication route to select routing options that promote the collection and updating of route data.

In some implementations the system stores information of the first communication route e.g. information identifying a sequence of communication nodes of the communication route and the system correlates received feedback information with the stored information of the first communication route e.g. as shown in . For example as shown in feedback information Quality Score 3 Issues Dropped Call of the received feedback message of the first communication is stored in association with communication route information C D E B for the first communication route.

In some implementations initiating the first communication includes controlling the communication platform system to notify a requesting entity e.g. one of the external systems of of at least one feedback alert as described above for S of .

In some implementations the process S functions to control the multi tenant communication platform system to receive a feedback message e.g. the feedback message of provided by an external system e.g. the external system associated with the first account e.g. Account A . The feedback message relates to the first communication e.g. the communication of of the first account e.g. Account A . In some implementations the communication platform system receives the feedback message as described above for S of . In some implementations the communication platform system receives the feedback message e.g. via the feedback API .

In some implementations the process S functions to control the multi tenant communication platform system to update the communication routing engine of based on the received feedback message e.g. the feedback message of the first account e.g. Account A . The communication platform system routes communications of a plurality of accounts e.g. accounts of the account system of the communication platform by using the updated communication routing engine . In this manner the communication platform system updates routing for multiple accounts e.g. Accounts A B C and D based on feedback provided by a first account e.g. Account A . Thus external systems e.g. can provide feedback to the communication platform system that alters the communication infrastructure. For example feedback provided by users of a first application of a first account of the communication platform can alter communication routing for a second application of a second account of the communication platform .

In some implementations the system updates the communication routing engine by updating internal routing within the system . In some implementations the system updates the communication routing engine by updating selection of at least one gateway e.g. gateways of . In some implementations the system updates the communication routing engine by altering routing metrics and selection processes used by the communication routing engine for routing of communications of a plurality of accounts e.g. accounts of the account system of the communication platform system . In some implementations the system performs internal routing and selection of gateways to external carriers or communication providers based on the received feedback message. In some implementations the system processes communication based on the received feedback message. In some implementations the system applies services to communication based on the received feedback message. In some implementations the system alters settings for media processing based on the received feedback message. In some implementations the system alters transcoding of communication based on the received feedback message. In some implementations the system conditionally applies feedback information of the feedback message to the communication routing engine as described above for S of . In some implementations the system weighs feedback information of the feedback message according to the associated account as described above for S of .

In some implementations the system updates the communication routing engine by providing the communication rouging engine with feedback information of the received feedback message e.g. the feedback information of . In some implementations the system updates the communication routing engine by providing the communication rouging engine with a notification that the system has received new feedback information which corresponds to the received feedback message and by providing the communication routing engine with information to access the new feedback information e.g. from the storage medium of .

In some implementations the communication platform system updates the communication routing engine as described above for S of .

In some implementations the method includes controlling the multi tenant communication platform system to initiate a second communication e.g. the communication of with a second communication route process S . The multi tenant communication platform system selects the second communication route based on the updating of the communication routing engine e.g. the updating at the process S . In some implementations the process S functions to control the multi tenant communication platform system to select the second communication route as described above for S of and to initiate the second communication as described above for S of .

In some implementations the system selects the second communication route by determining at least one route and selecting a determined route. In some implementations the system selects the second communication route based on processing of quality metrics of a feedback information e.g. the feedback information of of a plurality of feedback messages. In some implementations the system selects the second communication route based on processing of quality metrics of a feedback information e.g. the feedback information of of a plurality of feedback messages and performing a network graph search process to determine a best route by applying at least one quality heuristic function to the quality metrics. In some implementations the system selects the second communication route by screening different routes and or route segments based on feedback information e.g. the feedback information of FIGS. A B of received feedback messages as described above for and S of .

In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system initiates the second communication e.g. the communication of on behalf of a second account e.g. Account C of of the communication platform system .

In some implementations feedback for a first external system is used to route communication of a second external system. In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback message e.g. of the first account e.g. Account A process S the first account is an account of a first external system e.g. the external system of the system initiates a second communication e.g. the communication of with a second communication route process S the system initiates the second communication on behalf of a second account e.g. Account C of of the system the second account is an account of a second external system e.g. the external system of and the system routes communication of the second external system based on the feedback message e.g. of the first account.

In some implementations feedback for a first application is used to route communication of a second application. In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback message of the first account the first account is an account of an application of a first external system the system initiates a second communication with a second communication route the system initiates the second communication on behalf of a second account of the system the second account is an account of an application of a second external system and the system routes communication of the application of the second external system based on the feedback message of the first account.

In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system routes communication of a first application e.g. an application of the external system by using feedback e.g. for the first application.

In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system routes communication e.g. of a first external system e.g. by using feedback e.g. for the first external system.

In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system updates routing of the first communication e.g. by using the feedback e.g. for the first communication. In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system updates routing of the first communication e.g. based on the updating of the communication routing engine process S .

In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system uses feedback e.g. for a first external system e.g. to route communication e.g. of the first external system e.g. . In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system uses feedback e.g. for the first communication e.g. to update routing of the first communication e.g. .

In some implementations each feedback message e.g. includes a quality score and at least one issue of the first communication e.g. .

In some implementations the feedback message e.g. is provided by an application programming interface API call of a feedback API e.g. of the communication platform system .

In some implementations the method includes controlling the multi tenant communication platform system to provide the eternal system e.g. of the first communication e.g. with a feedback alert that prompts the external system for feedback. Responsive to the feedback alert the external system provides the feedback message e.g. . In some implementations the system provides the feedback alert as described above for S of .

In some implementations the method includes controlling the multi tenant communication platform system to reward the first account e.g. Account A of for the feedback e.g. the feedback message provided by the external system e.g. associated with the first account. In some implementations the method includes controlling the multi tenant communication platform system to reward the first account as described above for S of .

In some implementations the multi tenant communication platform system processes and stores received feedback messages e.g. the feedback message of . In some implementations for each feedback message received via the feedback API the system obtains feedback information from the feedback message and stores the feedback information e.g. feedback information of in a storage device e.g. the storage medium of of the system . In some implementations the system provides at least one external system e.g. access to stored feedback information. In some implementations the system provides at least one external system e.g. associated with a communication platform account e.g. Account A Account B Account C access to stored feedback information. In some implementations an external system e.g. of a communication platform account e.g. Account A Account B Account C is limited with privileges for interacting with feedback of communication associated with their account. In some implementations the feedback API provides an account holder with access to the stored feedback information for at least one of setting editing and reading of feedback information associated with the account holder. In some implementations the feedback API provides an account holder with access to the stored feedback information for at least one of setting editing and reading of feedback information regardless of the account associated with the feedback information.

As shown in feedback information for each feedback message includes an account identifier a communication identifier communication route information a quality score and at least one issue. In some implementations feedback information for each feedback message includes an endpoint identifier for an endpoint that provides the feedback included in the feedback message. In some implementations feedback information for each feedback message includes information indicating a time at which the feedback information of the feedback message is provided. In some implementations feedback information for each feedback message includes information indicating a time at which the feedback message is provided.

As shown in communication route information identifies a sequence of communication nodes of the communication route. In some implementations each communication node is at least one of an internal routing node of the system and a gateway e.g. .

In some implementations the feedback message is provided by an external system e.g. and the feedback information included in the feedback message is received via user input received for a user of the external system at a user input device. In some implementations a user input device is included in the external system e.g. the external system . In some implementations the user input device is communicatively coupled to the external system e.g. the external systems .

The updated communication routing engine updated at process S of the method routes communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform e.g. accounts of the account system . In some implementations the communication routing engine selects a communication route for a communication initiated at the communication platform based on the update to the communication rouging engine .

As an example after receiving the first feedback message the system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback information shown in . As shown in the communication route C D E B has feedback information indicating a Quality Score of 3 and a Dropped Call for the communication of of Account A.

In some implementations for communications initiated after the system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback information of the communication routing engine selects a communication route by weighing the communication route C D E B less than other communication routes that have a Quality Score greater than 3. In some implementations for communications initiated after the system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback information of the communication routing engine selects a communication route by weighing the communication route C D E B less than other communication routes that have a Quality Score greater than 3 or communication routes that have no feedback information.

As an example after receiving the feedback messages and the system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback information shown in .

In some implementations for communications initiated after the system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback information of the communication routing engine selects a communication route by weighing the communication routes of the feedback information and which each have Quality Scores above 6 higher than the communication routes of feedback information and which each have Quality Scores below 4 . In some implementations for communications initiated after the system updates the communication routing engine based on the feedback information of the communication routing engine selects a communication route by weighing the communication routes of feedback information and which each have Quality Scores below 4 less than other communication routes that have no feedback information.

The system selects a communication route for a plurality of accounts based on the received feedback message and the corresponding feedback information of . In other words the external system of Account A provides feedback that alters routing by communication routing engine for communication of other accounts of the communication platform . For example the feedback message alters routing by the communication routing engine for communication of each of Account A Account B Account C and Account D . In some implementations the system selects a communication route for all accounts of the system based on the received feedback message and the corresponding feedback information of .

Similarly the system selects a communication route for a plurality of accounts based on the received feedback messages and and the corresponding feedback information of . In other words the external systems and of Account A Account B and Account D respectively provide feedback that alters routing by communication routing engine for communication of other accounts of the communication platform . For example the feedback message alters routing by communication routing engine for communication of each of Account A Account B Account C and Account D . In some implementations the system selects a communication route for all accounts of the system based on the received feedback message and and the corresponding feedback information of . In some implementations the provided feedback alters routing by the communication routing engine for communication of accounts of the communication platform that have not provided feedback e.g. Account C of . In some implementations the provided feedback alters routing by the communication routing engine for communication of accounts of the communication platform that have provided feedback.

In some implementations the system isolates feedback to a subsection of the routes. As shown in feedback may be assigned to a first route but the poor quality may not be uniquely assigned to one node of the communication route. Subsequently received feedback information can be selected to isolate feedback responsibility.

In other words system determines feedback for a particular routing node by analyzing feedback received for communication routes that include the particular routing node. In this manner a node responsible for poor quality feedback can be identified.

Because determination of nodes and routes responsible for poor quality communication depends on feedback being provided by external systems in some implementations the system provides feedback alerts to external systems as described above for S of . Because determination of nodes and routes responsible for poor quality communication depends on feedback being provided by external systems in some implementations the system rewards accounts in response to providing feedback as described above for S of .

As shown in a method woo for updating a communication routing engine of a multi tenant communication platform system e.g. includes at the multi tenant communication platform system responsive to a feedback message e.g. provided by an external system e.g. associated with a first account e.g. Account A of the account system of the communication platform e.g. updating a communication routing engine e.g. of the communication platform based on the received feedback message process S . The feedback message relates to a first communication e.g. initiated on behalf of the first account of the communication platform the first communication being initiated with a first communication route. The updated communication routing engine routes communications of a plurality of accounts e.g. Account A Account B Account C and Account D of the account system of the communication platform.

In some implementations process S is similar to the process S of . In some implementations the first communication is initiated as described above for the process S. In some implementations the feedback message is received as described above for the process S. In some implementations the updated communication routing engine routes communications of a plurality of accounts of the communication platform as described above for the method of .

The bus interfaces with the processors A N the main memory e.g. a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a processor readable storage medium a display device a user input device and a network device .

In some implementations the system e.g. includes at least one of a central processing unit processor and a multi processor unit MPU .

The processors A N and the main memory form a processing unit . In some embodiments the processing unit includes one or more processors communicatively coupled to one or more of a RAM ROM and machine readable storage medium the one or more processors of the processing unit receive instructions stored by the one or more of a RAM ROM and machine readable storage medium via a bus and the one or more processors execute the received instructions. In some embodiments the processing unit is an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit . In some embodiments the processing unit is a SoC System on Chip . In some embodiments the processing unit includes one or more of a communication platform feedback API communication routing engine communication services carrier gateways and feedback information.

The network adapter device provides one or more wired or wireless interfaces for exchanging data and commands between the system e.g. and other devices such as external systems e.g. . Such wired and wireless interfaces include for example a universal serial bus USB interface Bluetooth interface Wi Fi interface Ethernet interface near field communication NFC interface and the like.

Machine executable instructions in software programs such as an operating system application programs and device drivers are loaded into the memory of the processing unit from the processor readable storage medium the ROM or any other storage location. During execution of these software programs the respective machine executable instructions are accessed by at least one of processors A N of the processing unit via the bus and then executed by at least one of processors A N. Data used by the software programs are also stored in the memory and such data is accessed by at least one of processors A N during execution of the machine executable instructions of the software programs. The processor readable storage medium is one of or a combination of two or more of a hard drive a flash drive a DVD a CD an optical disk a floppy disk a flash storage a solid state drive a ROM an EEPROM an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device and the like. The processor readable storage medium includes machine executable instructions and related data for an operating system software programs device drivers the communication platform and the account system the feedback API the communication routing engine the communication services the carrier gateways . In some implementations the processor readable storage medium includes feedback information e.g. the feedback information of .

The systems and methods of the preferred embodiments and variations thereof can be embodied and or implemented at least in part as a machine configured to receive a computer readable medium storing computer readable instructions. The instructions are preferably executed by computer executable components preferably integrated with the multi tenant communication platform system. The computer readable medium can be stored on any suitable computer readable media such as RAMs ROMs flash memory EEPROMs optical devices CD or DVD hard drives floppy drives or any suitable device. The computer executable component is preferably a general or application specific processor but any suitable dedicated hardware or hardware firmware combination device can alternatively or additionally execute the instructions.

As a person skilled in the art will recognize from the previous detailed description and from the figures and claims modifications and changes can be made to the preferred embodiments of the invention without departing from the scope of this invention defined in the following claims.

