---

title: Systems and methods for generating interactive content for in-page purchasing
abstract: The present solution relates to an improved system and method for providing interactive content. The present solution can provide a first content object for display in a content slot of an information resource of a content provider. The first content object can include one or more tags that can each be linked to a respective second content object of a plurality of second content object. When an interaction is received with a first tag the system can identify a second content object corresponding to the first tag. The second content object can be provided for display in the same content slot of the information resource. In some implementations, the second content object can include a transaction interface to purchase an item identified in the second content object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317881&OS=09317881&RS=09317881
owner: ADORNO PUBLISHING GROUP, INC.
number: 09317881
owner_city: Aptos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150915
---
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing interactive content. In particular the present disclosure relates to methods and systems providing interactive content that can enable in page purchasing from multiple vendors without navigating to each of the multiple vendor websites.

To receive additional content or information about items displayed in a webpage a browser of a computing device is typically navigated away from the webpage to a second webpage. In other examples websites may curate and display items for sale by different vendors. If the viewer of the curated website wants to purchase any of the items displayed on the curated website they must navigate to the individual websites of the different vendors to complete the purchase.

The present solution disclosed herein is directed to methods and systems for providing interactive content which can enable in page purchasing of items displayed on the webpage. A content publisher can publish a web page that includes one or more third party content slots. The third party content slots can be configured to display third party content received from one or more third party content providers. The retrieved third party content such as ads can be linked to landing pages that redirect the browser away from the content publisher to a webpage of the advertiser. As a result users are taken away from the content publisher s webpage to the advertiser s webpage. This adversely affects the content publisher s ability to engage with visitors on their webpage.

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for providing interactive content that can be displayed within a content slot of a webpage and allows for additional engagement with the interactive content without leaving the page. In some implementations the content object can include a first container and a second container and can be configured to display the content included in either the first container or the second container within the content slot. The first container can include at least one image that include one or more tags. Each of these tags can be linked to a corresponding content item included in the second container such that when a user clicks or interacts with one of these tags the content object causes the corresponding content item included in the second container to be displayed within the content slot. The corresponding content item can also include an image but may be displayed with an interface through which the user can perform additional functionality for instance make a purchase.

According to one aspect of the disclosure a method for providing interactive content includes providing for display on a computing device by a server of a content provider a first content object in a content slot of an information resource of the content provider. The first content object can include one or more tags. Each of the one or more tags can be linked to a respective second content object of a plurality of second content objects. The method can also include receiving by the server a first interaction with a first tag of the one or more tags and then responsive to receiving the first interaction with the first tag identifying a second content object corresponding to the first tag. The method can further include providing for display in the same content slot by the server the identified second content object corresponding to the first tag. The second content object can include a transaction interface to purchase an item identified in the second content object. The transaction interface can include a transaction content object configured to cause the computing device to provide to the server a request to update a shopping cart maintained by the server and associated with the computing device.

The method can also include responsive to receiving a second interaction with the transaction content object updating the shopping cart to include the item corresponding to second content object. In some implementations the first content object can include an image. The image can include one or more items for purchase and the first tag can be positioned on the item in the image and linked to the second content object. The second content object can include a plurality of item images. The second content object can be configured to display a first item image of the plurality of item images and include a selection object to select a second item image of the plurality of item images for display. The method can also include responsive to receiving an interaction on the selection object providing for display the second image within the content slot of the information resource.

In some implementations the first content object and the second content object can be included in an interactive content object. The interactive content object can include a first container that can include the first content object and a second container that can include the second content object. The first content object can also include a script to cause the computing device to display the second content object responsive to receiving an interaction with a tag of the first content object linked to the second content object.

The method can also include identifying by the server an identity of the tag associated with the interaction and selecting by the server the second content object linked to the tag. The second content object can then be transmitted to the computing device for display within the same content slot. When providing for display in the same content slot by the server the respective second content object a flip transition can be displayed between the display of the first content object and the second content object in the content slot. In some implementations when a width of the display is below a predetermined threshold the flip transition is along a horizontal axis and when the width of the display is above the predetermined threshold the flip transition is along a vertical axis.

According to another aspect of the disclosure a system for providing interactive content includes one or more processors and a memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed cause the one or more processor to provide for display on a computing device a first content object in a content slot of an information resource of the content provider. The first content object can include one or more tags. Each of the one or more tags can be linked to a respective second content object of a plurality of second content objects. Execution of the computer executable instructions can also cause the one or more processors to receive a first interaction with a first tag of the tags and identify a second content object corresponding to the first tag. The one or more processors can also provide for display in the same content slot the identified second content object corresponding to the first tag the second content object. The second content object can include a transaction interface to purchase an item identified in the second content object. The transaction interface can include a transaction content object configured to cause the computing device to provide to the server a request to update a shopping cart maintained by the server and associated with the computing device.

In some implementations the computer executable instructions can further cause the one or more processors to responsive to receiving a second interaction with the transaction content object update the shopping cart to include the item corresponding to second content object. The first content object can include an image. The image can include one or more items for purchase. The first tag can be positioned on the item in the image and linked to the second content object.

In some implementations the second content object can include a plurality of item images. The second content object can be configured to display a first item image of the plurality of item images and include a selection object to select a second item image of the plurality of item images for display. Responsive to receiving an interaction on the selection object the computer executable instructions can cause the one or more processors to provide for display the second image within the content slot of the information resource.

The first content object and the second content object can be in an interactive content object. The interactive content object can include a first container that can include the first content object and a second container that can include the second content object. The first content object can include a script to cause the computing device to display the second content object responsive to receiving an interaction with a tag of the first content object linked to the second content object.

In some implementations the computer executable instructions can cause the one or more processors to identity of the tag associated with the interaction select the second content object linked to the tag and transmit to the computing device the second content object for display within the same content slot. In some implementations a transition can be displayed between the display of the first content object and the second content object. In some implementations when a width of the display is below a predetermined threshold the flip transition is along a horizontal axis and when the width of the display is above the predetermined threshold the flip transition is along a vertical axis

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments below the following enumeration of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful 

Prior to discussing the specifics of embodiments of the systems and methods it may be helpful to discuss the network and computing environments in which such embodiments may be deployed including a description of components and features suitable for use in the present systems and methods. illustrates one embodiment of a computing environment that includes one or more client machines A N generally referred to herein as client machine s in communication with one or more servers A N generally referred to herein as server s . Installed in between the client machine s and server s is a network.

In one embodiment the computing environment can include an appliance installed between the server s and client machine s . This appliance can manage client server connections and in some cases can load balance client connections amongst a plurality of backend servers. The client machine s can in some embodiment be referred to as a single client machine or a single group of client machines while server s may be referred to as a single server or a single group of servers . In one embodiment a single client machine communicates with more than one server while in another embodiment a single server communicates with more than one client machine . In yet another embodiment a single client machine communicates with a single server .

A client machine can in some embodiments be referenced by any one of the following terms client machine s client s client computer s client device s client computing device s local machine remote machine client node s endpoint s endpoint node s or a second machine. The server in some embodiments may be referenced by any one of the following terms server s local machine remote machine server farm s host computing device s or a first machine s .

The client machine can in some embodiments execute operate or otherwise provide an application that can be any one of the following software a program executable instructions a virtual machine a hypervisor a web browser a web based client a client server application a thin client computing client an ActiveX control a Java applet software related to voice over internet protocol VoIP communications like a soft IP telephone an application for streaming video and or audio an application for facilitating real time data communications a HTTP client a FTP client an Oscar client a Telnet client or any other set of executable instructions. Still other embodiments include a client device that displays application output generated by an application remotely executing on a server or other remotely located machine. In these embodiments the client device can display the application output in an application window a browser or other output window. In one embodiment the application is a desktop while in other embodiments the application is an application that generates a desktop.

The computing environment can include more than one server A N such that the servers A N are logically grouped together into a server farm . The server farm can include servers that are geographically dispersed and logically grouped together in a server farm or servers that are located proximate to each other and logically grouped together in a server farm . Geographically dispersed servers A N within a server farm can in some embodiments communicate using a WAN MAN or LAN where different geographic regions can be characterized as different continents different regions of a continent different countries different states different cities different campuses different rooms or any combination of the preceding geographical locations. In some embodiments the server farm may be administered as a single entity while in other embodiments the server farm can include multiple server farms .

In some embodiments a server farm can include servers that execute a substantially similar type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS 7 or 8 manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. UNIX LINUX or OS X. In other embodiments the server farm can include a first group of servers that execute a first type of operating system platform and a second group of servers that execute a second type of operating system platform. The server farm in other embodiments can include servers that execute different types of operating system platforms.

The server in some embodiments can be any server type. In other embodiments the server can be any of the following server types a file server an application server a web server a proxy server an appliance a network appliance a gateway an application gateway a gateway server a virtualization server a deployment server a SSL VPN server a firewall a web server an application server or as a master application server a server executing an active directory or a server executing an application acceleration program that provides firewall functionality application functionality or load balancing functionality. In some embodiments a server may be a RADIUS server that includes a remote authentication dial in user service. Some embodiments include a first server A that receives requests from a client machine forwards the request to a second server B and responds to the request generated by the client machine with a response from the second server B. The first server A can acquire an enumeration of applications available to the client machine and well as address information associated with an application server hosting an application identified within the enumeration of applications. The first server A can then present a response to the client s request using a web interface and communicate directly with the client to provide the client with access to an identified application.

Client machines can in some embodiments be a client node that seeks access to resources provided by a server . In other embodiments the server may provide clients or client nodes with access to hosted resources. The server in some embodiments functions as a master node such that it communicates with one or more clients or servers . In some embodiments the master node can identify and provide address information associated with a server hosting a requested application to one or more clients or servers . In still other embodiments the master node can be a server farm a client a cluster of client nodes or an appliance.

One or more clients and or one or more servers can transmit data over a network installed between machines and appliances within the computing environment . The network can comprise one or more sub networks and can be installed between any combination of the clients servers computing machines and appliances included within the computing environment . In some embodiments the network can be a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a primary network comprised of multiple sub networks located between the client machines and the servers a primary public network with a private sub network a primary private network with a public sub network or a primary private network with a private sub network . Still further embodiments include a network that can be any of the following network types a point to point network a broadcast network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network a wireline network or a network that includes a wireless link where the wireless link can be an infrared channel or satellite band. The network topology of the network can differ within different embodiments possible network topologies include a bus network topology a star network topology a ring network topology a repeater based network topology or a tiered star network topology. Additional embodiments may include a network of mobile telephone networks that use a protocol to communicate among mobile devices where the protocol can be any one of the following AMPS TDMA CDMA GSM GPRS UMTS 3G 4G or any other protocol able to transmit data among mobile devices.

Illustrated in is an embodiment of a computing device where the client machine and server illustrated in can be deployed as and or executed on any embodiment of the computing device illustrated and described herein. Included within the computing device is a system bus that communicates with the following components a central processing unit a main memory storage memory an input output I O controller display devices A N an installation device and a network interface . In one embodiment the storage memory includes an operating system software routines and an interactive content module ICM . The I O controller in some embodiments is further connected to a key board and a pointing device . Other embodiments may include an I O controller connected to more than one input output device A N.

Embodiments of the computing machine can include a central processing unit characterized by any one of the following component configurations logic circuits that respond to and process instructions fetched from the main memory unit a microprocessor unit such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation those manufactured by Motorola Corporation those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. the RS 6000 processor such as those manufactured by International Business Machines a processor such as those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices or any other combination of logic circuits. Still other embodiments of the central processing unit may include any combination of the following a microprocessor a microcontroller a central processing unit with a single processing core a central processing unit with two processing cores or a central processing unit with more than one processing core.

While illustrates a computing device that includes a single central processing unit in some embodiments the computing device can include one or more processing units . In these embodiments the computing device may store and execute firmware or other executable instructions that when executed direct the one or more processing units to simultaneously execute instructions or to simultaneously execute instructions on a single piece of data. In other embodiments the computing device may store and execute firmware or other executable instructions that when executed direct the one or more processing units to each execute a section of a group of instructions. For example each processing unit may be instructed to execute a portion of a program or a particular module within a program.

In some embodiments the processing unit can include one or more processing cores. For example the processing unit may have two cores four cores eight cores etc. In one embodiment the processing unit may comprise one or more parallel processing cores. The processing cores of the processing unit may in some embodiments access available memory as a global address space or in other embodiments memory within the computing device can be segmented and assigned to a particular core within the processing unit . In one embodiment the one or more processing cores or processors in the computing device can each access local memory. In still another embodiment memory within the computing device can be shared amongst one or more processors or processing cores while other memory can be accessed by particular processors or subsets of processors. In embodiments where the computing device includes more than one processing unit the multiple processing units can be included in a single integrated circuit IC . These multiple processors in some embodiments can be linked together by an internal high speed bus which may be referred to as an element interconnect bus.

In embodiments where the computing device includes one or more processing units or a processing unit including one or more processing cores the processors can execute a single instruction simultaneously on multiple pieces of data SIMD or in other embodiments can execute multiple instructions simultaneously on multiple pieces of data MIMD . In some embodiments the computing device can include any number of SIMD and MIMD processors.

The computing device in some embodiments can include an image processor a graphics processor or a graphics processing unit. The graphics processing unit can include any combination of software and hardware and can further input graphics data and graphics instructions render a graphic from the inputted data and instructions and output the rendered graphic. In some embodiments the graphics processing unit can be included within the processing unit . In other embodiments the computing device can include one or more processing units where at least one processing unit is dedicated to processing and rendering graphics.

One embodiment of the computing machine includes a central processing unit that communicates with cache memory via a secondary bus also known as a backside bus while another embodiment of the computing machine includes a central processing unit that communicates with cache memory via the system bus . The local system bus can in some embodiments also be used by the central processing unit to communicate with more than one type of I O device A N. In some embodiments the local system bus can be any one of the following types of buses a VESA VL bus an ISA bus an EISA bus a MicroChannel Architecture MCA bus a PCI bus a PCI X bus a PCI Express bus or a NuBus. Other embodiments of the computing machine include an I O device A N that is a video display that communicates with the central processing unit . Still other versions of the computing machine include a processor connected to an I O device A N via any one of the following connections HyperTransport Rapid I O or InfiniBand. Further embodiments of the computing machine include a processor that communicates with one I O device A using a local interconnect bus and a second I O device B using a direct connection.

The computing device in some embodiments includes a main memory unit and cache memory . The cache memory can be any memory type and in some embodiments can be any one of the following types of memory SRAM BSRAM or EDRAM. Other embodiments include cache memory and a main memory unit that can be any one of the following types of memory Static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Dynamic random access memory DRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM JEDEC SRAM PC100 SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM Ferroelectric RAM FRAM or any other type of memory. Further embodiments include a central processing unit that can access the main memory via a system bus a memory port or any other connection bus or port that allows the processor to access memory .

One embodiment of the computing device provides support for any one of the following installation devices a CD ROM drive a CD R RW drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats USB device a bootable medium a bootable CD a bootable CD for GNU Linux distribution such as KNOPPIX a hard drive or any other device suitable for installing applications or software. Applications can in some embodiments include a client agent or any portion of a client agent . The computing device may further include a storage device that can be either one or more hard disk drives or one or more redundant arrays of independent disks where the storage device is configured to store an operating system software programs applications or at least a portion of the client agent . A further embodiment of the computing device includes an installation device that is used as the storage device .

The computing device may further include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 SNA DECNET broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM Gigabit Ethernet Ethernet over SONET wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. Connections can also be established using a variety of communication protocols e.g. TCP IP IPX SPX NetBIOS Ethernet ARCNET SONET SDH Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI RS232 RS485 IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g CDMA GSM WiMax and direct asynchronous connections . One version of the computing device includes a network interface able to communicate with additional computing devices via any type and or form of gateway or tunneling protocol such as Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS or the Citrix Gateway Protocol manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. Versions of the network interface can comprise any one of a built in network adapter a network interface card a PCMCIA network card a card bus network adapter a wireless network adapter a USB network adapter a modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to a network capable of communicating and performing the methods and systems described herein.

Embodiments of the computing device include any one of the following I O devices A N a keyboard a pointing device mice trackpads an optical pen trackballs microphones drawing tablets video displays speakers inkjet printers laser printers and dye sublimation printers or any other input output device able to perform the methods and systems described herein. An I O controller may in some embodiments connect to multiple I O devices A N to control the one or more I O devices. Some embodiments of the I O devices A N may be configured to provide storage or an installation medium while others may provide a universal serial bus USB interface for receiving USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry Inc. Still other embodiments include an I O device that may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus such as a USB bus an Apple Desktop Bus an RS 232 serial connection a SCSI bus a FireWire bus a FireWire 800 bus an Ethernet bus an AppleTalk bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus a HIPPI bus a Super HIPPI bus a SerialPlus bus a SCI LAMP bus a FibreChannel bus or a Serial Attached small computer system interface bus.

In some embodiments the computing machine can execute any operating system while in other embodiments the computing machine can execute any of the following operating systems versions of the MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the MAC OS manufactured by Apple Computer OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines Android by Google any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system. In still another embodiment the computing machine can execute multiple operating systems. For example the computing machine can execute PARALLELS or another virtualization platform that can execute or manage a virtual machine executing a first operating system while the computing machine executes a second operating system different from the first operating system.

The computing machine can be embodied in any one of the following computing devices a computing workstation a desktop computer a laptop or notebook computer a server a handheld computer a mobile telephone a portable telecommunication device a media playing device a gaming system a mobile computing device a netbook a tablet a device of the IPOD or IPAD family of devices manufactured by Apple Computer any one of the PLAYSTATION family of devices manufactured by the Sony Corporation any one of the Nintendo family of devices manufactured by Nintendo Co any one of the XBOX family of devices manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation or any other type and or form of computing telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the methods and systems described herein. In other embodiments the computing machine can be a mobile device such as any one of the following mobile devices a JAVA enabled cellular telephone or personal digital assistant PDA any computing device that has different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device or any other mobile computing device capable of performing the methods and systems described herein. In still other embodiments the computing device can be any one of the following mobile computing devices any one series of Blackberry or other handheld device manufactured by Research In Motion Limited the iPhone manufactured by Apple Computer Palm Pre a Pocket PC a Pocket PC Phone an Android phone or any other handheld mobile device. Having described certain system components and features that may be suitable for use in the present systems and methods further aspects are addressed below.

The present solution relates to a system and method for providing interactive content. The interactive content may be provided as part of a webpage viewed on a client device such as a laptop computer tablet smartphone or other computing device. In some implementations the system and method can be used to provide additional information to a user. For example a webpage can be configured to include an interactive content object which can include a first forward facing container and a second backward facing container. A first content object such as an image can be loaded into the forward facing container. Items of interest in the image can be identified with clickable or otherwise selectable tags. Each of the tags can be linked or otherwise related to secondary content objects that can provide additional content related to the item identified by the respective tags. When a user selects one of the tags the secondary content object associated with the tag can be loaded into the backward facing container. A script associated with the interactive content object can flip or rotate the interactive content object which causes the backward facing container to now face forward and display the content of the secondary content object.

In some implementations the secondary content object can include a transaction object that enables the item identified by the selected tag to be added to a digital shopping cart. The digital shopping cart can be maintained by a server providing the web page to the client device. For example each of the secondary content objects can be associated with items sold by different vendors. Rather than navigating to each of the vendor s website to purchase the item the user can add the item to the shopping cart through interacting in page with the transaction interface of the secondary content object. In this way a user does not have to leave the page on which the interactive content object is shown to purchase items displayed in the first content object.

The first container can include at least one image and at least one tag included in the image . When a content object such as the content object is first displayed within a content slot such as the content slot contents of the first container are provided for display in the content slot. In some implementations the image can be displayed. The image can include one or more tags . The tags can include visual identifiers that include links to respective content items contained within the second container . The content for example the image included in the first container can be referred to as primary content.

The second container can include one or more second content items such as one or more additional images . The content included in the second container can be referred to as secondary content for example the image as the image is linked to a tag displayed on the primary content . Each of the images is associated with at least one of the tags of the first container. The second container can also include text or other content that may be related to one or more of the images. As will be described below the content object may be configured to allow users to purchase items via the content objects. In some such implementations the second container can include content from third party sources including but not limited to images product details shipping information or other content that may be displayed to the user within the content object. In addition the second container can include a transaction interface that is configured to be displayed with other content of the second container. The transaction interface can communicate with other components of the server including but not limited to a product database which may include a list of inventory of products available for purchase as well as other product related details. The transaction interface can be configured to allow a user to purchase a product corresponding to each of the images of the second container.

The content object further includes a script . The script can be any file program application set of instructions or computer executable code that is configured to enable the computing device on which the content object is displayed to allow a user to interact with the content object while the content object is displayed within the content slot. In some implementations the script is in a JavaScript Object Notation JSON format.

The script can be configured to cause a computing device to display an image such as the image in a content slot of an information resource. The script can be configured to identify one or more tags corresponding to the image and position the tags at designated locations on the image . The script can be configured to display one or more additional images stored in the first container responsive to receiving an indication from a user or according to a predetermined time or activity based schedule. For instance the script can be configured to cause a different image included in the first container to be displayed at predetermined time intervals. In some implementations the script can be configured to cause a different image included in the first container to be displayed each time the page is reloaded or if some other activity is performed.

The script can be configured to cause the computing device on which the content object is displayed to identify if a cursor or other input device has interacted with a particular tag. In some implementations the script can implement a listening agent that is configured to listen for or identify any activity relating to the cursor or other input device. In some implementations the listening agent can identify activity performed on a display screen or via an input device configured to communicate with the computing device. The script can be configured to cause the computing device to determine if the interaction qualifies as a first interaction. If the computing device determines that the interaction qualifies as the first interaction for example a hover over a tag the script can cause the computing device to display additional content included in the first container. The additional content can be linked to the tag and can include an image text among others. The additional content can be displayed as a pop up over the tag responsive to determining that a first interaction with the particular tag took place. The additional content can be stored in the first container and information associating the additional content with the particular tag can be stored. In some implementations a file can be maintained in the first container that links one or more of the tags to additional content stored in the first container such that when a first interaction is performed on one of the tags the appropriate additional content can be provided for display as an overlay over the image .

The script can be configured to cause the computing device to determine if the interaction qualifies as a second interaction for example a click on a tag. The script can cause the computing device to display content from the second container instead of the first container. The script can be configured to cause the computing device to identify the content item for example the image of the second container that is linked to the tag of the first container that received the second interaction or click . The script can further be configured to cause the computing device to display the transaction interface along with the image within the same content slot in which the image of the first container was displayed.

The script can be configured to cause the computing device to further include additional instructions to receive instructions to add a product associated with the image to a shopping cart and update via the transaction interface the shopping cart associated with the browser or computing device on which the interactive content object is displayed in response to receiving the instructions. Additional details relating to the shopping cart are described below.

In some implementations Cascading Style Sheets CSS can be used to configure the interactive content object such that the second container faces backwards with respect to the first container. When a container is facing backwards the content of the container is not displayed by the client . Responsive to a qualifying action by the user on a tag displayed in a content object of the first container the interactive content object can transition from displaying the contents of the first container to displaying the contents of the second container. The transition can be a flip transition which causes the interactive content object to alternate which container faces forward. In some implementations the flip is made along a vertical axis of the display and in other implementations the flip is made along a horizontal axis of the display. The flip can be made along a horizontal axis when a script associated with the interactive content object determines the width of the application is below a predetermined threshold and the flip can be along a vertical axis when the script associated with the interactive content object causes the computing device to determine the width of the application is above the predetermined threshold. In some implementations the script can include PHP javascript CSS or a combination thereof. For example the script can include javascript that is executed by the client to manipulate the CSS classes causing the interactive content object to flip or rotate.

In some implementations the content object may include links to images. In this way instead of having to transmit a content object that includes a large number of images which may be resource intensive the content object can include links to images. In some such implementations the tags can be linked to images that are not included in the content object but are accessible by the content object. In this way in the event that an image is to be accessed in response to an action taken on a tag the script can be configured to cause the computing device to send a request to the server to retrieve the image corresponding to the link.

Referring again to the server is in communication with the client via the network . The server includes one or more processors that execute the ICM which can include a content object generation module and a shopping platform module . The server also includes a content object database a shopping cart database and a product database .

The ICM can include any program script file configuration or computer executable instructions to provide interactive content. In some implementations the ICM can receive interactive content from one or more vendor servers or other content provider servers. In some implementations the ICM via the content object generation module can generate the content object.

The content object generation module can include computer executable instructions which can cause the server to generate the interactive content object. In some implementations the content object generation module can generate the interactive content object. The content object generation module can be configured to provide to an entity a user interface through which the entity can provide content for generating the content object. Via the interface an entity can provide to the server one or more images to include in the first and second containers of the content object. The user can identify which images are to be included in the first container and which images are to be included in the second container. The content object generation module can via the interface display images of the first container on which tags are to be included. The content object generation module can via the interface receive input from the entity relating to locations on the images at which to place the tags. A user can identify the location at which to place a tag by for example clicking at a particular location on the image. The user can then identify one or more other images to associate with the tag. The other images can include images that may be displayed in response to a hover over or first interaction or images that may be displayed in response to a click or second interaction . In some implementations images displayed in response to the second interaction can be stored in the second container.

The content object generation module can store the location of the tags identifying pixel coordinates at which the tags are selected to be positioned. In some implementations the content object generation module can store the location of the tags based on a relative distance from one or more landmarks on the image for example the corners of the image. In this way in the event that the image is displayed at different sizes the tags are positioned at the right location on the image based on the size of the image. The content object generation module can further configure to generate a script based on the tags and each of the images linked to the tags. In this way when the content object is displayed and a tag is clicked on the script can determine and display the image associated with the tag.

In some implementations the content objects can be generated on a server other than the server . In some such implementations the server can receive the content objects via the network and store the content objects in the content object database . The content objects stored in the content object database can be content suitable for display on a webpage mobile application or computer application and can be provided to the server in any suitable data structure or format.

In some implementations the content object can be used to purchase items included in one or more images included in the content object via the content object. To do so the server can utilize the shopping platform module . The shopping platform module can be configured to maintain an inventory of items available for purchase via the interactive content objects. In some implementations the shopping platform module can maintain a list of all available products including product related information. In some implementations the server can be configured to sell furniture and other home related goods. As such the inventory can include a list of furniture art and other home accessories. The shopping platform module may maintain a product database that includes the list of inventory. In some implementations the product database can include for one or more of the items available for sale a vendor through which the sale will be complete. For instance the content provider may sell furniture on behalf of one or more vendors. In some such implementations the vendor servers may communicate via APIs with the server to update the product database that maintains the list of inventory. In some implementations the server can sell products that are acquired from one or more of the vendors corresponding to the vendor servers . In some such implementations the server can buy these products from the vendor and then resell them via the content objects.

The content provider may purchase inventory from one or more of the vendors which the content provider can then resell via a website of the content provider. The content provider can provide for display on a web page of the content provider a content object that includes images text and other data related to one or more items of the inventory for sale. The content object can be generated by the vendor content provider or a combination thereof. In an example where the vendors each are furniture retailers the content object can include an image of a staged room that is decorated using the furniture and accessories associated with the vendors and which the content provider can sell to the user of the client . The content object can be generated by the content provider and may include photographs of a staged room. In some implementations the content object that the user of the client may want additional information about is referred to as a primary content object and the content objects providing the additional information are referred to as secondary content objects. In another example the vendors via the server can sell directly to the user of the client . For example the content provider may not purchase items that are held in inventory and then sold to the user of the client but the secondary content items can interface with each of the vendor servers to enable in page purchasing.

In some implementations the shopping platform module provides an interface the vendors can use to provide the content objects to the server . For example the shopping platform module may provide a website that enables the vendors or other third parties to provide indications of products the vendors wish to be listed for sale on a content publisher s website. In some implementations the shopping platform module can expose functions for receiving content objects to the vendor servers through an application program interface API such as a REST API.

In some implementations the product database can include information related to each of the items associated with the tags. For example the items associated with each of the tags can be sold by or through the content provider s website. The server can store inventory information vendor information pricing information and other data related to the item in the product database. In some implementations the tags included in the content object can provide links back to the product database which enable scripts in the content object to pull information from the product database for placement in the content object .

As described further below in some implementations the system can be used to purchase items offered by the vendor server while remaining on a website hosted by the content provider server . The server can also include a shopping cart database to maintain a shopping cart associated with the client . For example as the user of the client interacts with the content objects and indicates a desire to purchase an item corresponding to one of the secondary content objects a request can be sent to the ICM of the server by the client that updates the entry of the shopping cart database associated with the client or the user thereof to include the item corresponding to the secondary content object. When the user of the client completes the order on the website hosted by the server the ICM can transmit the purchasing information to each of the corresponding vendor servers .

The system also includes a client that receives the content object from the ICM of the server . The client displays the received content object via the display . The content object is displayed in a content slot . The content slot can be a slot in a webpage or application for displaying content generally referred to as an information resource . As described above with respect to the content object can include containers into which primary and secondary content objects are loaded. In the context of a webpage when the user desires additional information or wishes to purchase an item in the primary content object the user can click on a tag associated with the item. Clicking the tag can cause the secondary content object associated with the item to be displayed. Accordingly the user can receive additional information or purchase the item in page and without navigating to a different website.

In the context of an application e.g. a smartphone application or a computer application when the user desires additional information or wishes to purchase an item in the primary content object clicking the tag can cause the secondary content object to be displayed without displaying a second page or switching to a different application. The client is configured to receive interactions from a user either through the user touching a touch sensitive display or by the user selecting or clicking through the use of an interactive device e.g. a mouse . For example one interaction the client may detect is the selection by the user of a tag positioned on the content object displayed in the content slot .

In some implementations as illustrated in the content provider is also the content publisher. The content publisher can be an entity that provides an information resource to the client device for display. The information resource of the content publisher can include the content slot in which a content object can be displayed. In some implementations the content object can be a content object that is generated or created by the content publisher. In some other implementations a content provider can generate or create the content object and send it to the content publisher or to the client device directly for display in the content slot of the information resource. For example the content publisher may be a social media content publisher e.g. a social media website publisher that publishes content received from third parties. The content provider may provide the content objects and other instructions for displaying the content objects in a content slot of the social content publisher. In some implementations the content provider may provide the content objects to the content publisher as a component of an advertisement article or other form of web content.

The method includes identifying a content object to display in a content slot of an information resource at a client device BLOCK . In some implementations the content object is selected for display in a content slot by the content provider that provides the information resource. In some implementations the content slot can be configured to request content from a third party content provider. In some implementations the content slot can be configured to request content via a content selection server such as an ad server. The content provider can select based on the content of the information resource a suitable interactive content object to display within the content slot. In some implementations the interactive content object can be selected based on bids received for displaying content in the content slot. In some implementations the information resource is coded to receive a particular content object. In some implementations the content object to be displayed in the content slot is stored in the content object database maintained by the server .

Responsive to identifying the interactive content object to display in the content slot the method includes providing for display in the content slot of the information resource a first content object of the interactive content object that includes one or more tags that are linked to respective second content objects BLOCK . The first content object is selected from one of the images included in the first container of the interactive content object. In some implementations the first content object can be designated as the content object to display when the interactive content object is provided for display in the content slot. In some implementations the server can provide the interactive content object to the client for display in the content slot. In some implementations the server can provide only the first content object included in the first container along with one or more tags associated with the first content object. Responsive to the client device receiving the first content object or the interactive content object the client device can display the first content object along with the one or more tags associated with the first content object. In some implementations a plurality of primary content objects can be provided for display. For example when a plurality of primary content objects are provided the user of the client can scroll or swipe through each of the primary content objects each of which can include a plurality of tags.

Referring again now to the method includes receiving by the server a first interaction with a tag BLOCK . In some implementations the first interaction can be a click on the tag. The tags can be links to secondary content items that are included in a second container of the interactive content object. The tags are included as links in the content slot over the items to which they are associated in the content object . The tags are selectable e.g. clickable with a mouse pointer or touchable with a touchscreen enabled client . Once the user selects one of the tags a first interaction can be transmitted to the server by the client . The first interaction can provide an indication to the server of which tag was selected by the user.

The method also includes identifying a second content object response to receiving the first interaction BLOCK . As described above each of the tags can be stored in the content object database in association with at least one primary content object and a secondary content object. Responsive to the server identifying the tag on which the first interaction was performed the server can search the content object database for the secondary content object associated with the selected tag. In some implementations the secondary content object can include an image of a product as well as additional information related to the product in the primary content object to which the tag is also associated. For example the tag may be placed over a lamp illustrated in an image of the primary content object . Receiving an indication that the user selected the tag above a lamp the server may search for the secondary content object associated with the respective tag placed above the lamp by performing a SQL query using a lookup table a search tree or by using the tag as a key to lookup the secondary content object in a table. The secondary content object can include additional images of the lamp and can include text based information such as dimensions price color materials etc. related to the lamp.

Responsive to identifying the second content object the secondary content object is provided for display BLOCK . The secondary content object can be provided to the client by the server for display in the same content slot as the first content object was displayed. In some implementations the second content object is inserted or otherwise loaded into the second container. The interactive content object is then flipped such that the contents of the second container are displayed while the contents of the first container are no longer displayed. In some implementations the script of the interactive content object can be configured to cause the computing device to cause the containers to flip.

The secondary content object can include a transaction interface . The transaction interface can enable a user to purchase the item identified by the secondary content object . The transaction interface can include a transaction content object that includes buttons and user inputs that enable the user to indicate the quantity of the item the user wishes to purchase and to add the item to their digital shopping cart. When the user interacts with the transaction interface the transaction content object of the content slot can update a shopping cart associated with the user of the computing device to include the lamp.

In some implementations the user can interact with the secondary content object such that the first content object is redisplayed. For example a close button can be displayed on the secondary content object . When the user selects the close button the interactive content object can be flipped to its original state to display the image of the first content object in the content slot . Once the first content object is redisplayed the user can select another tag . As described above in relation to BLOCKS and the selection of a new tag can cause the server to provide another secondary content object to the client for display in the content slot . As in BLOCK the user can interact with a transaction content object of the transaction interface which can cause a request to be sent to the server to update the user s shopping cart with the object associated with the second content object.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific embodiments it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention described in this disclosure.

While this specification contains many specific embodiment details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms.

Thus particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain embodiments multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

Having described certain embodiments of the methods and systems it will now become apparent to one of skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating the concepts of the invention may be used. It should be understood that the systems described above may provide multiple ones of any or each of those components and these components may be provided on either a standalone machine or in some embodiments on multiple machines in a distributed system. The systems and methods described above may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. In addition the systems and methods described above may be provided as one or more computer readable programs embodied on or in one or more articles of manufacture. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass code or logic accessible from and embedded in one or more computer readable devices firmware programmable logic memory devices e.g. EEPROMs ROMs PROMs RAMs SRAMs etc. hardware e.g. integrated circuit chip Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. electronic devices a computer readable non volatile storage unit e.g. CD ROM floppy disk hard disk drive etc. . The article of manufacture may be accessible from a file server providing access to the computer readable programs via a network transmission line wireless transmission media signals propagating through space radio waves infrared signals etc. The article of manufacture may be a flash memory card or a magnetic tape. The article of manufacture includes hardware logic as well as software or programmable code embedded in a computer readable medium that is executed by a processor. In general the computer readable programs may be implemented in any programming language such as LISP PERL C C C PROLOG or in any byte code language such as JAVA. The software programs may be stored on or in one or more articles of manufacture as object code.

