---

title: Global-positioning system (GPS) update interval based on sensor data
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes transmitting at a pre-determined polling frequency an activation signal waking from a sleep mode an application on a mobile computing device and causing the application to activate a location service of the mobile computing device for a pre-determined sampling duration. The pre-determined polling frequency and the pre-determined sampling duration are determined at least in part by detecting a movement of the mobile computing device. The method also includes receiving location data from the mobile computing device after the pre-determined sampling duration. The location data is responsive to a transmission signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09622038&OS=09622038&RS=09622038
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09622038
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150611
---
This application is continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 760 692 filed 6 Feb. 2013 which is a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 490 394 filed 6 Jun. 2012 which are incorporated herein by reference.

A mobile electronic device such as a smartphone tablet device laptop computer etc. has general computing capabilities. The mobile electronic device may execute one or more applications such as for example communications through short message service SMS communications through multimedia messaging service MMS accessing e mail accessing Internet content communications through a short range wireless e.g. infrared or BLUETOOTH business applications gaming or photography using a camera integrated into the mobile electronic device. A smartphone is a particular class of mobile electronic device with telephony capabilities provided through a radio frequency RF communication link whilst moving within a geographic area. The smartphone may have a touch sensor integrated with a display screen where the touch sensor detects touch inputs and the display screen displays content. The smartphone connects to a cellular network for access to the public telephone network and Internet content.

In particular embodiments a server may be able to automatically and without any manual input from the user track the location of a mobile computing device. The server may ping the mobile computing device at pre determined intervals to obtain location information through an application of the mobile computing device running in a background mode. The server adaptively adjusts the global positioning system GPS data collection interval and duration depending on whether mobile device is moving or stationary. Determination of whether the mobile computing device is moving or is stationary is based on comparing the current location of the mobile computing device with the location from the previous reading or input from sensors of the mobile computing device. For example if the server may determine the user is moving based on accelerometer data the data collection interval and duration may be decreased to capture less accurate but more frequent GPS readings.

One or more users may interact with social networking system using mobile devices . Mobile devices may communicate with social networking system via an application such as a web browser or native application executed on processor of mobile devices . In particular embodiments one or more mobile devices may be a smartphone as described above. As an example and not by way of limitation interactions between mobile devices and social networking system may include viewing profiles of other users of social networking system contributing and interacting with media items joining groups listing and confirming attendance at events checking in at locations liking certain pages creating pages and performing other tasks that facilitate social interaction.

Social networking system includes components used to store information about users and objects represented in the social networking environment and relationships among the users and objects. The social networking system may include components enabling interactions to mobile devices as described below. Components of social networking system may be hosted on one or more servers. This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers such as servers that are internal to social networking system or external servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or domain name servers DNS print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of the server. As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host Hyper Text Markup Language HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from mobile devices the web server may communicate one or more such files to mobile devices . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example action store described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

A social graph of social networking system stores the connections each user has with other users of social networking system . In particular embodiments social graph may also store second order connections. The connections may thus be direct or indirect. As an example and not by way of limitation if user A is a first order connection of user B but not of user C and B is a first order connection of C then C is a second order connection of A on social graph . An action store stores actions that have been performed by the users of social networking system along with an indication of the time associated with those actions and references to any objects related to the actions. Action store may store statistics for specified categories of actions. As an example and not by way of limitation for a given user action store may contain a number of stories posted in 30 days by a user a number of photos posted by the user in 30 days or a number of distinct users that received comments of the user within the past 30 days. For a given connection between two users user A and user B action store may contain actions such as the number of profile page views from user A to user B the number of photo page views from user A to user B and the number of times user A and user B were tagged in the same photo and these actions may be associated with a timestamp or may be filtered by a cutoff e.g. 24 hours 90 days etc. . The actions recorded in action store may be farmed actions which are performed by a user in response to the social networking system providing suggested choices of actions to the user.

A predictor module is responsible for computing a set predictor functions that predict whether a user will perform a set of corresponding actions. Each predictor function may be representative of a user s interest in a particular action associated with the predictor function. The historical activity of a user may be used as a signal of a user s future interest in the same activity. In particular embodiments the predictor function is generated using a machine learned algorithm that is trained using a user s historical activity associated with an action. Predictor module thus provides a predictor function for each of a set of actions where a predictor function may take as an input the user s historical activity and then outputs a measure of the likelihood that the user will engage in the corresponding activity.

An authentication manager authenticates users on mobile devices as being registered users of social networking system . Authentication manager may allow users to log into social networking system from mobile devices through an application supporting social networking system . An application programming interface API works in conjunction with authentication manager to validate users via external applications A B stored on external server . In particular embodiments authentication manager in conjunction with API may periodically verify account information of the user as described below.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include an authorization server or other suitable component s that allows users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party systems for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. A privacy setting of a user may determine what information associated with the user may be logged how information associated with the user may be logged when information associated with the user may be logged who may log information associated with the user whom information associated with the user may be shared with and for what purposes information associated with the user may be logged or shared. Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system through blocking data hashing anonymization or other suitable techniques as appropriate.

An affinity module provides a measure of affinity based on input data about the user from the social networking system using the predictor functions. Various processes may request a measure of affinity from affinity module . As an example and not by way of limitation the processes may include basic social networking system functionality such as for example newsfeed algorithms advertising targeting algorithms or friend suggestion algorithms. Other processes that request measures of affinity may be executed by one or more platform applications A B which are applications that operate within the social networking system but may be provided by third parties other than an operator of the social networking system . Platform applications A B may include social games messaging services or any suitable application that uses the social platform provided by social networking system .

In particular embodiments the processes requesting a measure of affinity for a user may include one or more external applications A B executed on external server . External applications A B may interact with the social networking system via API . External applications A B can perform various operations supported by the API such as enabling users to send each other messages or SMS messages through social networking system or showing advertisements routed through social networking system . Herein reference to SMS messages encompasses messages in text and other forms of content such as for example images or links to web content.

One or more platform applications A B executed on social networking system or external applications A B executed on external server is able to automatically and without any manual input from the user track the location of mobile device . In particular embodiments social networking system or external server polls or pings mobile device using a activation signal transmitted at a polling frequency to obtain location information. In particular embodiments social networking system may poll the application of mobile device for location data by transmitting the activation signal through network using a wireless communication protocol such as for example WI FI or third generation mobile telecommunications 3G . As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may periodically poll an application of mobile device running in a background or sleep mode. In particular embodiments the application is an event driven application that responds to the activation signal from social networking system or external server . The social networking system or external server may adaptively adjust the pre determined sampling duration and polling frequency of the location determination performed by the application depending on the travel distance of mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation the pre determined sampling duration and polling frequency may be adaptively adjusted based at least in part on whether mobile device is moving or stationary. When mobile device is moving and the travel distance is relatively large the social networking system may request location data from the application of mobile device more frequently but with lower accuracy. In particular embodiments the location service of mobile device is activated for the pre determined sampling duration through transmission of one or more location service activation signals that keeps the application of mobile device active for the pre determined sampling duration. As an example and not by way of limitation the application of mobile device may receive an activation signal to wake the application every 4 minutes and one or more location service activation signals that activate the location service for 10 seconds when moving. When mobile device is moving frequent location measurements allow movement to be monitored without calculating large changes in position. Since the position of mobile device is in flux high accuracy position determination of mobile device is relatively unimportant. Although this disclosure describes a particular number of signals that wakes the application and causes the application to activate the location service of the mobile device this disclosure contemplates any suitable number of signals to wake the application and cause the application to activate the location service.

As another example when mobile device is stationary and the travel distance is relatively small the social networking system may request location data from mobile device less frequently but with higher accuracy. As an example and not by way of limitation the application of mobile device may receive the activation signal every 10 minutes and one or more location service activation signals to activate the location service of mobile device for 20 seconds when stationary. Since the position of mobile device is relatively fixed frequent location measurements may not provide additional position information. When mobile device is stationary it is relatively important to determine the position of mobile device with a high degree of accuracy. As an example and not by way of limitation particular social networking functions such as for example location based recommendations or location based notifications may depend on having a relatively accurate position measurement.

Social networking system may adaptively adjust the pre determined sampling duration and polling frequency based at least in part on determining whether a movement of mobile device has occurred. Herein reference to a movement encompasses any suitable movement from one position in space to another position in space. As described above movement of mobile device may be determined based at least in part on the travel distance of mobile device environmental data obtained from one or more sensors of mobile device or any combination thereof as appropriate. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine movement of mobile device based on a signal from mobile device based at least in part on mobile device processing the environmental data. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may transmit the activation signal to mobile device with a lower polling frequency and larger pre determined sampling duration in response to receiving data from a sensor of mobile device indicating mobile device is stationary. As another example social networking system may transmit the activation signal to mobile device with a higher polling frequency and a lower pre determined sampling duration in response from a sensor of mobile device indicating mobile device is in motion. Although this disclosure describes detecting movement of a mobile device using particular data received from the mobile device this disclosure contemplates detecting movement of the mobile device using any suitable data or any suitable combination of data such as for example location data and sensor data received from the mobile device.

The application activates the location service of mobile device in response to receiving the location service activation signal. In particular embodiments the location service of mobile device may use one or more methods of location determination such as for example using the location of one or more cellular towers crowd sourced location information associated with a WI FI hotspot or the global positioning system GPS function of mobile device . In particular embodiments the application of mobile device may transmit location data and other relevant data such as for example the signal strength from nearby cellular towers. In particular embodiments the operating system OS of mobile device may arbitrate collecting data by the various methods used by the location service of mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation the method used by the location service of mobile device may depend at least in part on the pre determined sampling duration of the location measurement. As an example and not by way of limitation the application may use GPS data as the primary source of location information depending at least in part on whether mobile device is able to acquire GPS data within the pre determined sampling duration. As another example if mobile device is unable to acquire the GPS data within the pre determined sampling duration the application may use the location determined using one or more cellular towers or WI FI hotspots. Although this disclosure describes a location service using particular methods of location determination this disclosure contemplates a location service using any suitable method or combination of methods of location detection.

The accuracy of the location data measured by the application is determined at least in part by the pre determined sampling duration the location service of mobile device is activated. The calculation of the travel distance of mobile device is based on comparing the current location of mobile device with the location from the previous reading. The travel distance of mobile device may be approximated by the following equation distance position position 1 Positionis the position of mobile device at the most recent location reading and positionis the position of mobile device at the second most recent location reading. As an example and not by way of limitation when the travel distance of mobile device is substantially equal or less than a pre determined distance social networking system or external server may determine mobile device is stationary. In particular embodiments the pre determined distance may be the measurement accuracy of the GPS function of mobile device . Although this disclosure describes adjusting the polling frequency and sampling duration to a particular number of discrete settings based on the travel distance this disclosure contemplates adjusting the polling frequency and sampling duration to any suitable number of discrete settings or a continuum of settings based on the travel distance.

In particular embodiments the application executed on mobile device receives the activation signal through network that wakes the application from the sleep mode and activates the location service of mobile device for a pre determined sampling duration e.g. 10 seconds . As described above social networking system or external server may adjust the polling frequency i.e. the time interval between signal transmissions and sampling duration according to the travel distance of mobile device . As described above the pre determined sampling duration depends at least in part on the desired accuracy of the location data. Increasing the pre determined sampling duration increases the accuracy of the location of mobile device due at least in part to the application having a higher probability of acquiring GPS data or the location service being able to acquire more detailed GPS data. In particular embodiments the pre determined sampling duration may be determined at least in part by the battery level of mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation mobile device may transmit data indicative of the battery level of mobile device and the pre determined sampling duration may be decreased by social networking system or external server if the battery level of mobile device is low. As another example the polling frequency may be decreased if the battery level of mobile device is low.

In particular embodiments social networking system or external server may transmit a transmission signal to the application at the end of the pre determined sampling duration. The application transmits the acquired location data and other relevant data to social networking system or external server in response to receiving the transmission signal. After the application has transmitted the location data the application may revert to the sleep mode and the location service may be turned off until the next polling signal is received in accordance with the polling frequency such that the location data acquisition sequence as described above is repeated. In particular embodiments additional location service activation signals are periodically transmitted to mobile device during location data acquisition to keep the application from reverting to the sleep mode before the location data is acquired.

In particular embodiments transmission of the location data by the application may trigger an event driven social networking function. As an example and not by way of limitation after receiving location data from mobile device social graph of social networking system may be accessed to determine if a friend of the user is in the same proximity of the user. As another example social networking system may determine if another user with similar interests is in the same location as the user based on actions stored in the action store of social networking system . As another example transmission of the location data may update the status of the user as being online on social networking system . In particular embodiments action store may store interactions of the user of mobile device with other users in the same location based on the location updates made to social networking system or external server . As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may prompt the user to confirm a meeting with another user who is in the same location. In particular embodiments social networking system or external server may adjust the amount of data sent to mobile device based on whether mobile device is stationary or moving. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may infer that when mobile device is moving mobile device may be switching between different cellular towers and send lower bandwidth information.

In particular embodiments the application may acquire data to provide context to the location data of mobile device . The application may activate sensors of mobile device to collect environmental data. As an example and not by way of limitation the application may activate the microphone of mobile device to measure ambient noise. As another example the application may poll an accelerometer of mobile device to determine a mode of transportation being used by the user.

In particular embodiments mobile device includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication component and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular mobile device having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable mobile device having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program or application. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates a processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments software executed by processor may include an OS. The OS may include a kernel or any number of device drivers corresponding to one or more hardware components of mobile device . As an example and not by limitation if mobile device is a smartphone then the OS may be a mobile operating system such as for example WINDOWS Phone ANDROID Symbian IOS or Bada. In particular embodiments one or more software applications may be executed on mobile device . In particular embodiments the applications may be native applications installed and residing on mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation an application e.g. GOOGLE MAPS may display a map on a touch screen search for addresses and businesses or provide directions to a geographic location a second application may provide remote access to email a third application i.e. a web browser may enable the device user to browse and search the Internet a fourth application may control a camera to take photos or record videos and a fifth application may allow the device user to receive and initiate voice over Internet Protocol VoIP or cellular network calls. The software applications may have a user interface UI and may implement one or more specific functionalities. The software applications may include one or more software modules implementing the specific functionalities. The executable code of the software applications may be stored in memory or storage of mobile device .

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile device may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another mobile device to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to mobile device where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between mobile device and one or more I O devices. Mobile device may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a user and mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad one or more sensors touch screen microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker digital still camera stylus trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication component includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between mobile device and one or more other mobile devices or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication component may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as for example a WI FI network or modem for communicating with a cellular network such as for example 3G or Long Term Evolution LTE network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication component for it. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile device may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a LAN a WAN a MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As another example mobile device may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G or LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Mobile device may include any suitable communication component for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication component may include one or more communication components where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication component this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication component.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of mobile device to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include a graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local bus VLB or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

In particular embodiments mobile device may include one or more sensors such as for example an accelerometer gyroscope proximity sensor light sensor or biometric sensors. In particular embodiments the sensors may detect movement of mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation an accelerometer may be configured to detect whether the mobile device is moving and the speed of the movement. As another example a gyroscope may be configured to detect movement of mobile device through measurements of the orientation of mobile device . In particular embodiments a sensors hub may be included in mobile device . Sensors of mobile device may be connected to the sensors hub which may be a processor that controls the sensors manages power for sensors processes sensor inputs aggregates sensor data or performs certain sensor functions. In particular embodiments the sensor hub of mobile device may process the environmental data obtained from the sensors to determine movement of mobile device . Although this disclosure describes detecting motion of a mobile device with particular sensors this disclosure contemplates detecting motion of a mobile device with any suitable sensor or combination of sensors.

As described above a signal sent by the social networking system may activate one or more sensors of mobile device to collect environmental data. As an example and not by way of limitation the activation signal sent to the application of mobile device may activate one or more sensors of mobile device to obtain environmental data. Alternatively one or more sensors of mobile device may automatically and without input from the social networking system send environmental data to the social networking system as a periodic update in response to a change in the environment of mobile device or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments the environmental data collected by one or more sensors of mobile device may detect movement of mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation an accelerometer may detect a change of acceleration such as for example from rest to motion of mobile device and automatically send environmental data to the social networking system associated with movement of mobile device . As another example a gyroscope may detect a change of orientation of mobile device indicating movement of mobile device and send data associated with movement of mobile device to the social networking system. As described above environmental data from the sensors and location data from the location service of mobile device may be sent to the social networking system. In particular embodiments the sensor hub may determine movement of mobile device based on the environmental data and send a signal to the social networking system indicating a movement of mobile device has occurred. As described above the social networking system may dynamically adjust the pre determined sampling duration and polling frequency of the signal sent to the application of mobile device based at least in part on the environmental data obtained by the sensors of mobile device or the signal from mobile device indicating movement has occurred.

As described above antennae A E are configured to convert a received EM signal into an electrical signal at the terminals of antennae A E. The electrical signal at the terminals of antennae A E is transmitted to modem . In particular embodiments when the mobile device accesses the Internet through a 3G or LTE data network a primary antenna A and a secondary antenna B is used. Modem configures antennae A B for use with one or more wireless protocols. Modem is configured to optimize the efficiency of the power transfer between the antennae and the modem within the frequency range associated with the wireless protocol used by the mobile device as described below. In particular embodiments modem transmits data encoding a response shift in the signals received by the mobile device to logic . Logic may be configured to process the encoded response shift data received from modem and initiate changes to the configuration of the mobile device based on the received response shift data.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy disks or diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiment may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

