---

title: System and method for displaying dynamic text content with a digital map
abstract: An entry point card displayed within a mapping application viewport may display context and other data based on a calendar appointment and other data that the user might, predictably, want to search for upon opening the mapping application. Using appointment information from a calendar application, an entry point card might display a time the user must leave his current location in order to make the appointment on time. Or, using a history of the user's routine errands or trips, the entry point card may display predicted information. For example, the card may display an amount of time to get to work or other information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09410815&OS=09410815&RS=09410815
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09410815
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150320
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 970 656 filed Mar. 26 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to electronic map systems and more specifically to a mapping system that displays an entry point for dynamic content in a mobile mapping system based on various user and location data.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

Current online maps show the maps in a static state. Vectors describing both the map content and styling are sent to a user device in response to a request for specific locations. The data sent to the user device only represents the map data as it exists on the backend mapping servers. Digital maps are most often used as a tool to complete a search appointment. Users typically open a mapping application with an understanding that they will need to search for what they are looking for. While these static maps and static searching may be useful for general viewing and search appointments they may not be appropriate in other dynamic contexts.

Features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof. Additionally other embodiments may omit one or more or all of the features and advantages described in this summary.

A computer implemented method may integrate information related to a geographic area displayed within a viewport of a digital mapping application that is executing on a client computing device. The method may receive a mapping data request from the client computing device via a network connection. The mapping data request may include a first geographic location user context data and a request time. The method may also analyze the first geographic location the user context data and the request time to determine a mapping application context wherein the mapping application context includes an indication of travel time to a second geographic location indicated by the user context data. The second geographic location may include one or more of an appointment or a user preference that each correspond to one or more graphic elements displayed within a viewport of the digital mapping application. The method may then send the mapping application context to the client computing device.

In a further embodiment a computer implemented method may display graphic elements on a digital map based on application data generated or received by an application executing on a client computing device. The method may send a mapping data request from the client computing device via a network connection. The mapping data request may include a current geographic location and a request time. The method may further receive in response to the mapping data request mapping data corresponding to the current geographic location. The mapping data may include a plurality of graphic elements that represent the current geographic location. The method may also retrieve user context data generated or received by an application executing on the client computing device. The context data may include a data time and a data location and the mapping data request current geographic location may correspond to the data location. The method may also determine a difference between the data time and the request time and determine mapping application context data based on the difference. The mapping application context may include one or more of an indication of travel time to an appointment or a user preference corresponding to one or more of the received graphic elements that represent the current geographic location.

In a still further embodiment a system may generate a mapping application context for display at a client computing device based on user context data. The system may comprise a user context data system and a mapping system server. The user context data system may include a processor and memory the memory storing user context data that is at least partially generated or received by an application executing on a client computing device. The user context data may include an appointment time and an appointment location. The mapping system server may include a processor and a memory the memory storing mapping data that includes a plurality of graphic elements to represent a geographic location using a mapping application of a client computing device. The memory may further store instructions for execution by the mapping system processor. The instructions may receive a mapping data request from the client computing device via a network connection. The mapping data request may include one or more of a current geographic location of the client computing device user context data and a request time. The instructions may further analyze the received mapping data request that includes one or more of the current geographic location of the client computing device the user context and the request time to determine a mapping application context. The mapping application context may include one or more of an indication of travel time to an appointment or a user preference corresponding to one or more graphic elements corresponding to the current geographic location. The instructions may also send the mapping application context to the client computing device.

In a still further embodiment a system may generate mapping application context data for display at a client computing device based on user context data. The system may comprise a user context data system and a mapping system. The user context data system may include a processor and memory the memory storing user scheduled appointment data and user preference data. The user scheduled appointment data may be generated or received by an application executing on a client computing device and may include an appointment time and an appointment location. The mapping system may include a processor and a memory the memory storing instructions to represent a geographic location with data received from a remote mapping server the memory further storing instructions for execution by the mapping system processor. The instructions may send a mapping data request from the client computing device via a network connection to the remote mapping server. The mapping data request may include a current geographic location of the client computing device and a request time. The instructions may also receive in response to the mapping data request mapping data corresponding to the current geographic location. The mapping data may include a plurality of graphic elements that represent the current geographic location. Further the instructions may retrieve user context data. The context data may include a context data time and a context data location and the mapping data request current geographic location may correspond to the context data location. The instructions may then determine a difference between the context data time and the mapping data request time and determine mapping application context data based on the difference. The mapping application context may includes one or more of an indication of travel time to an appointment or a user preference corresponding to one or more of the received graphic elements that represent the current geographic location.

An apparatus may integrate information related to a geographic area displayed within a viewport of a digital mapping application that is executing on a client computing device. The apparatus may include receiving means to receive a mapping data request from the client computing device via a network connection. The mapping data request may include one or more of a current geographic location of the client computing device user context data and a request time. The apparatus may also include analyzing means to analyze the received mapping data request that includes one or more of the current geographic location of the client computing device the user context and the request time to determine a mapping application context. The mapping application context may include one or more of an indication of travel time to an appointment or a user preference corresponding to one or more graphic elements corresponding to the current geographic location. The apparatus may include sending means to send the mapping application context to the client computing device.

A further apparatus may display graphic elements on a digital map based on application data generated or received by an application executing on a client computing device. The apparatus may include sending means to send a mapping data request from the client computing device via a network connection. The mapping data request may include a current geographic location and a request time. The apparatus may further include a receiving means to receive in response to the mapping data request mapping data corresponding to the current geographic location. The mapping data may include a plurality of graphic elements that represent the current geographic location. Retrieving means may retrieve user context data generated or received by an application executing on the client computing device. The context data may include a data time and a data location and the mapping data request current geographic location may correspond to the data location. Determining means may determine a difference between the data time and the request time and determine mapping application context data based on the difference. The mapping application context may include one or more of an indication of travel time to an appointment or a user preference corresponding to one or more of the received graphic elements that represent the current geographic location.

The figures depict a preferred embodiment for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art may readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Mobile mapping applications are most often used as a tool to complete a search appointment. Users typically open the application with an understanding that they will need to search for what they are looking for. A dynamic entry point for a mobile mapping application may provide a user with relevant predicted locations information and actions the moment a user opens the application. The entry point may be visible when a user opens the mapping application on cold start or when a user clears all of the map states to arrive at the default search omnibox. An omnibox may be a graphic element that allows a user to enter text. An application displaying the omnibox may then use the entered text to perform a variety of functions. For example the user may enter an address corresponding to a geographic location that may be represented within a graphic map of a mapping application executing on a mobile device. The mapping application may then use the address to perform a geolocation function to display a pointer or other graphic element at a position on a displayed map that corresponds to the address. In further embodiments text of a partial address may be entered into the omnibox and used by the application to display further text in a drop down box or other graphic element that includes selectable text that predicts or potentially matches a full address. Predicted text may include matches from a variety of sources including the application s search history bookmarks or a browsing history. Other icons may appear within the omnibox to indicate information or other actions that may be taken with the text or partial information that is entered within the omnibox. For example a first icon may represent a navigation function that when selected allows the application to execute a navigation function while a second icon may indicate further information is available about the text entered within the omnibox e.g. a security alert an upcoming event for an address entered into the box weather or other hazard alert information for an address entered into the box etc. . The entry point may be shown as a single card under the omnibox and appears to animate from behind the omnibox once data has been pre fetched or refreshed. When tapped or pulled down the entry point reveals further detailed information for the data initially shown in the entry point as a Home Page. When the Home Page opens the entry point card may animate and expand to become a first card on the Home Page.

In its initial state the entry point card may display an appointment or other information based on a calendar or other application data that the user might predictably want to search for upon opening the mapping application. For example using appointment information from a calendar application an entry point card might display a time the user must leave his current location in order to make the appointment on time. Or by keeping a history of the user s routine movements the entry point card may display predicted information. For example the card may display an amount of time to get to work or other information.

Information displayed in the entry point card may refreshed when the user scrolls or otherwise changes the viewport i.e. the entry point card is always updated to be relevant to whatever geographic area is displayed within the viewport . The entry point card may also have a secondary action that appears as a secondary tap target within the entry point card. When tapped any specified action supported by the Home Page may be launched. For example an Upcoming Trips card could show a secondary action that launches turn by turn navigation.

Embodiments of systems and methods for displaying dynamic map content based on calendar current location or user routine data are discussed below. To produce a standard map image of a location in a mapping application or another application a client computing device may send a mapping request to a map server via a communication network and the map server in response may provide vector based map data that allows the mapping application executing on the client computing device to render graphic map elements. In particular the vector map data may specify various geometric shapes e.g. using mathematical descriptions for graphic elements and features of a digital map and indicate how these shapes should be positioned for rendering various map features such as roads buildings parks etc. on the client computing device.

To produce a customized entry point for the mapping application dynamic map content may be rendered by referencing the user s scheduled appointment and or the user s preferences or stored routine data in order to specify particular data to display within the entry point. Data regarding the user s scheduled appointment may include a appointment time and a appointment location for various user defined appointments or events e.g. a dinner reservation a doctor s appointment a birthday party event etc. . By referencing the user s scheduled appointment in a mapping request the map server or the client device may show information within the entry box based on the time difference between the current real time and the time for the scheduled appointment and the relationship between the current mapping request geographic location and the appointment appointment event location i.e. between a first and second geographic location . For example if the user s scheduled appointment involves a dinner reservation that is scheduled on a calendar application executing on the user s mobile computing device and the user starts the mapping application within a threshold amount of time of the dinner reservation then the mapping application may display relevant data about the reservation within an entry point card. For example the relevant data may include an amount of time until the reservation a time it would take to get to the restaurant based on the user s current location or a time a user would have to leave the current location to make the reservation on time various modes of transportation that could get the user to the location in time or even how late the user will be based on his or her current location. However if the user opens the mapping application outside of a threshold time of the reservation then the data displayed within the entry point card may be based on historical or routine data that pertains to a user s habits past trips near to or related to the user s current location or interests the user has expressed in the past.

In addition to or in the absence of user defined appointments or events data regarding the user s daily routines or activities e.g. a mode of transportation used by the user to get to work a store or errand visited by the user on weekend afternoons etc. may form the basis for the user s scheduled appointment which may include a routine time and a routine location. By referencing the user s daily routine in a mapping request the map server or the client device may show information within the entry point card by matching the current real time to the routine time and the current mapping request geographic location to the routine location. For example if the user is driving near work on a weekday afternoon and opens the mapping application on the user s mobile computing device then information displayed within the entry point card may include vector data to inform the user about how far away relevant map elements such as a bank a post office or other places that the user may visit regularly during weekday afternoons are and whether it is convenient for the user to reach them. In another example if the user is walking near home on a weekend morning and opens the mapping application on the user s mobile computing device then information displayed within the entry point card may include vector data to inform the user about how close or convenient i.e. a time it would take to get there by walking or other mode of transportation relevant map elements are to the user such as a grocery store a park or other places that the user may visit regularly during weekend mornings .

The mapping system may include a map server which may be in the form of one or more servers including a processor and a memory storing instructions to send and receive map data A from a map data repository . In response to a mapping data request from the mapping module executing on client device e.g. upon startup or other user interaction with the mapping module a processor A of the map server may execute instructions B to retrieve and send map data A for a digital map image to be displayed in a display component of the client device . To render the digital map with dynamic map content the mapping module may execute instructions A to reference application or user context data and send the data along with a mapping data request. The context data may include one or more of data associated with the user s scheduled appointment scheduled appointment data A routine data B or data associated with the user s preference user profile data A . Generally the context data may indicate a user s frame of reference for opening the mapping application. For example scheduled appointment data A coupled with mapping data may be analyzed to determine how close a user is to a future appointment past routine action favorite event or activity or other information. This context data may serve as the user s frame of reference for accessing the mapping application.

One or more of the client computing device or the backend components may collect the scheduled appointment data A routine data B or user preference data A with a user s full understanding and acceptance to published terms and conditions for collection and use of that data. For example before one or more elements of the computing device or the backend components executes an instruction to collect or use this data a visual or other prompt at the client computing device may alert the user to such action. The prompt allows the user to opt out of some or all collection of scheduled appointment data A routine data B user preference data A or any other data as described herein.

Context data may be based on an analysis of schedule appointment data A daily routine data B user preference data A or other data. Scheduled appointment data A may be stored in the user appointment module and collected from a variety of applications such as a calendar application a trip planning application or other application sources executing on or in communication with the client device . Daily routine data B may include data associated with the user s typical daily routines or activities e.g. a route used to go to work every morning a regular errand location etc. . The daily routine data B may be stored in the user appointment module and collected from various applications such as a user activity tracking application a search history application or other application sources executing on or in communication with the client device . User preference data A indicating the user s interests likes dislikes habits etc. may be stored in the user routine module and collected from various applications such as a user profile application a user activity tracking application or other application sources executing on or in communication with the client device .

In some embodiments scheduled appointment data A daily routine data B and user preference data A may at the user s option and understanding be collected and stored in the backend components . The user appointment system may include one or more user appointment servers and various user appointment resources . Data associated with the user s scheduled appointment may be collected from the user appointment resources and stored as scheduled appointment data A. Data associated with the user s daily routines or activities may also be collected from the user appointment resources and stored as daily routine data B. A processor A of the user appointment server may execute instructions B to send and receive the scheduled appointment data A and the daily routine data B from the user appointment resources . The user routine system may include one or more user preference servers and various user preference resources e.g. a user profile application a social networking application etc. . Data associated with the user s preference may be collected from the user preference resources and stored as user preference data A. A processor A of the user preference server may execute instructions B to send and receive the user preference data A from the user preference resources .

In some embodiments the context data including the scheduled appointment data A daily routine data B or user preference data A may be collected from applications executing on the client device and pushed to the backend to be stored in the user appointment system and the user routine system . In other embodiments scheduled appointment data A daily routine data B or user preference data A may be collected in the backend and pulled to the frontend to be stored in the client device . In still other embodiments scheduled appointment data i.e. A A daily routine data i.e. B B or user preference data i.e. B B may be collected and stored among the frontend client device and the backend user appointment system and user routine system .

In one embodiment the client device may send a request for mapping data to the mapping system to initiate a mapping application on the device and display a map. In response to the request the map server may retrieve and send map data A to the mapping module . The mapping module may then process the received map data A and a mapping application context within an omnibox of a viewport of the mapping application executing on the user s mobile computing device by referencing the context data i.e. a combination of scheduled appointment data daily routine data and user preference data stored in either the client device or the backend user appointment system and user routine system . In another embodiment the client device may send a request for mapping data to the mapping system to display a map on the device corresponding to the location at which the user initiated the mapping module on the device . In response to the request the map server may first retrieve and process map data A and render a mapping application context within an entry point card displayed within the viewport displayed within the display by referencing context data that is a combination of scheduled appointment data daily routine data and user preference data stored in either the client device or the backend user appointment system and user routine system . The map server may then send the map and mapping application context to be displayed within the viewport and dynamic map content to be displayed within the entry point card to the mapping module for subsequent display on the client device .

In some embodiments the mapping module may receive map data in the form of graphic components text and other data. The received data may include vector data that specifies the map features such as geometric shapes using mathematical descriptions of points and paths connecting the points. For example rather than specifying each pixel that makes up a raster image of a line segment or other graphic elements vector data may specify the two endpoints of the line segment and indicate that the two endpoints are connected by a straight line. The mapping module then may apply style and other data as appropriate to the specified line segment so that the line segment is displayed with a particular title description etc. As another example the vector data may specify the contour of a building and corresponding text data may specify the name description web page contact information address etc. of the building. In other words rather than receiving raster images from the map server the mapping module may receive instructions for drawing a map image on the display component of the client device and execute the instructions to generate a raster map image. The received data may also include dynamic text data corresponding to the scheduled appointment data daily routine data and user preference data that is displayed within an entry point card of the viewport for the mapping module .

For simplicity the client device is illustrated with a single processor to execute various modules stored in the device memory as described herein. The client device in other embodiments may include additional processing units not shown such as a graphics processing unit GPU configured to facilitate image rendering on the display component for example. Further the mapping module may utilize a library of graphics functions for efficiently generating a map image. For example the memory may store a plugin such as an OpenGL or Direct3D library having functions for rendering graphics which various applications executing on the client including the mapping module may access via an application programming interface API . In another embodiment the memory stores a plugin particularly suitable for browser applications such as WebGL for example. Also in some embodiments the memory stores additional software components that facilitate efficient rendering of images via the display . For example the memory may store an Adobe Flash plugin or an O3D plugin.

With reference to scheduled appointment data i.e. A A may include a appointment time and a appointment location for various user defined appointments or events. Daily routine data i.e. B B may include a routine time and a routine location that correspond to the user s typical daily routines or activities. User preference data i.e. A A may include preferences to each indicating a preference for the user i.e. the user s interests likes dislikes habits etc. . For example preference may include data that indicate the user enjoys a particular restaurant preference may include data that indicate the user s place of employment and preference may include data that indicate the user is an avid golfer. While illustrates user preference data i.e. A A as having three user preferences the data in general may have any number of preferences.

With reference to a map controller of the client device mapping module or the backend map server may include various functions to process and render a map with dynamic map content based on the user s location scheduled appointment preferences and other data. According to an embodiment the map controller may operate as a set of instructions i.e. A B in either the client device or the mapping system or the various functions may be split among the client device and the mapping system .

According to an embodiment the map controller may include a dynamic map content controller communicatively coupled to a map data generator a user appointment data generator a user preference data generator and a map request processor . After the map request processor receives a request for mapping data to display a map for a user s current geographic location upon startup of the mapping module the map request processor may execute a function call to the map data generator to retrieve map data A from the map data repository for the requested geographic location. The map data generator may include instructions to generate the map data as a set of map tile descriptors such that each map tile descriptor describes a map tile i.e. a portion of a map image of a certain size . The size of a geographic region represented by an individual map tile depends on the zoom level with which the map tile is associated so that a single map tile at a lower zoom level illustrates a larger geographic area than a single map tile at a higher zoom level. The map data generator may generate each map tile descriptor according to a vector graphics format and a client device such as the client device of may locally generate a raster image for each tile.

To render a mapping application context on the map within an entry point card of an omnibox the map request processor may execute a function call to the user appointment data generator to access user context data e.g. scheduled appointment data i.e. A A or daily routine data i.e. B B which may be retrieved from the client device or the backend user appointment system . The map request processor may also execute a function call to the user preference appointment generator to access user preference data i.e. A A which may be retrieved from the client device or the backend user routine system .

The dynamic map content controller may read scheduled appointment data i.e. A A to determine the time difference between the current real time e.g. determined from the processor clock A and the appointment time and the relationship between the startup mapping request geographic location and the appointment location. Based on this information the dynamic map content controller may include a mapping application context to display within an entry point card. For example where the relationship is beyond a threshold amount of time the dynamic map content controller may not include text data for display e.g. if the schedule appointment data indicates an appointment for next week then the relationship may be beyond the time threshold. However if the scheduled appointment data indicates an appointment that is the same day then the text data may indicate a time the user must leave his or her current location in order to make the appointment on time . Generally the mapping application context may dynamically change depending on a relationship between the current time to the appointment time and the current location to the appointment location.

In addition the dynamic map content controller may read the user preference data i.e. A A to determine user tailored text or other features for the entry point card in order to provide the user with a more personalized map viewing experience. The dynamic map content controller may also read daily routine data i.e. B B to match the current real time e.g. determined from the processor clock A to the routine time and the current i.e. startup mapping geographic location to the routine location. The dynamic map content controller may then determine the mapping application context to display within an entry point card of an omnibox. For example with reference to upon startup of the mapping module the system determines that the user has a scheduled appointment that corresponds to a dinner reservation in two hours time. If the user starts the mapping module with the mobile device at a geographic location within a threshold distance of the restaurant and within a threshold time to the reservation e.g. within fifty miles of the restaurant and within two hours of the reservation then the dynamic map content controller may display a mapping application context within an entry card of an omnibox .

With reference to further information may also be displayed within the viewport if the device receives an indication of a gesture within the entry card . For example Home Page information may be displayed if the device detects a downward swiping gesture within the entry point card . The Home Page information may include appointment or other information corresponding to the originally displayed mapping application context displayed within the entry point card . With reference to if the device does not detect any gesture within the entry point card then the card may collapse into the omnibox and display a small draggable element . If the device detects a gesture on the small draggable element then the entry point card or the Home Page information may appear within the view port .

With reference to in some embodiments the entry point card may have a secondary action which is tappable and appears as a second tap target . For example when the device detects a gesture e.g. a tap within the entry point card on the tap target the mapping application may launch a navigation process for a location indicated in the mapping application context or the Home Page information . Of course any other secondary action using the device may also be initiated using the secondary tap target including a web search opening calendar application performing a map search for a location indicated in the entry point card etc.

With reference to in further embodiments the entry card may include a reverse geocoded name of a current viewport down to a corridor neighborhood level for small viewports or up to a country level for large viewports. For example when a user s current location is home or work or any other named location as stored in the user preference data A the stored location name may be displayed within the mapping application context . When the current location corresponds to a neighborhood the neighborhood name may be displayed within the mapping application context .

In further embodiments the mapping application context may include time and weather conditions. For example when the weather is rainy the context may indicate raindrops within the entry point card or some other indication.

On cold start of the mapping application or when a user clears the omnibox of all search terms the entry point card may become visible once a mapping application context is fetched in the background. In some embodiments once a mapping application context is determined the entry point card including mapping application context data may drop down to display the data .

The entry point card may refresh once activity with the mapping application n within the viewport decreases or ceases altogether for a threshold amount of time. In some embodiments when a refresh action results in the same information for the mapping application context the entry point card may remain in a collapsed state. However when a refresh action results in a new mapping application context then the card may animate and drop down from behind the omnibox . Further the application may cache the mapping application context data such that cached content appears at the top of the card while new context data loads in below the cached data.

At block the mapping module of the client device may execute an operation upon startup of the application . For example the mapping module may execute a function call to the mapping system via the network to request map data A corresponding to a current user geographic location to be sent to the mapping module to display a map within the display component of the device .

At block the mapping module may receive the requested map data A i.e. map tile data sent from the mapping system once the system matches a geographic location of the request to the map data A and the system sends the matched data to the client device . In some embodiments the system may send the matched data in a vector format as described herein. The received map data A may include a plurality of graphic elements that when rendered by the client device depict various map features e.g. a building a store streets etc. .

To render dynamic map content on the map displayed at the client device the method may cause instructions to be executed at block to retrieve context data from either the client device or the user appointment system or the user preference system . The context data may include one or more of scheduled appointment data i.e. A A and daily routine data i.e. B B . Block may also cause instructions to be executed to retrieve user preference data i.e. A A from either the device or the user routine system .

At block the method may determine whether context data is available. For example the block may cause instructions to be executed to determine if scheduled appointment data i.e. A A is available. If context data e.g. scheduled appointment data A A is not available the block may cause instructions to be executed to collapse the entry point card at block and return the method to block as above. If context data is available then the method may proceed to block to read the context data retrieved in block and determine an appointment time and appointment location . At block the method may calculate a time difference between the current real time e.g. determined from the processor clock A and the appointment time . The method may then proceed to block to quantify the time difference to determine if the amount of time before the appointment time is below a threshold e.g. a couple of hours before the appointment time or if the amount of time before the appointment time is above a threshold e.g. a week before the appointment time .

At block if the time difference and distance to the appointment location is small e.g. the time difference and distance is below a threshold then the method may cause instructions to be executed to determine the mapping context data . In some embodiments block may include instructions to include context data such as a present location e.g. work home weather and time data. The mapping application context data may also include upcoming trip data that depends on the current time and location e.g. Leave by 7 24 for your restaurant reservation or Next train for Home departs at 6 24 pm etc. . Where no user context data is indicated or the time difference and distance to the appointment location is large e.g. the time difference and distance is above a threshold at block the method may execute instructions to determine mapping application context data based on user preference data A. The mapping application context data for block may include exploration options for a current user location based on user preference data A or other user data e.g. Explore this neighborhood or based on an expressed interest in golf Driving range 10 minutes away etc. . The mapping application context data may also include directions or information for user favorite locations locations for routine errands or habitual destinations etc. At block the method may also determine whether daily routine data i.e. B B is available. If daily routine data i.e. B B is available then the method may read the daily routine data i.e. B B retrieved in block and determine the routine time and routine location . The method may then proceed to block to execute instructions for displaying the mapping application context within an entry point card displayed on the client computing device . The method may terminate at block .

If scheduled appointment data i.e. A A is determined to be not available at block then the method may proceed directly to block to determine whether daily routine data i.e. B B is available. If daily routine data i.e. B B is determined to be not available at block then the method may terminate at block .

Using the system and method described herein an electronic map system may be implemented for displaying mapping application context data within an entry point card of a mapping application omnibox based on a user s location scheduled appointment preferences and routines. By referencing data associated with the user s scheduled appointment and preference in response to a request for mapping data for specific locations or in response to a startup action or a refresh action the styling and appearance of digital maps may be rendered to provide more targeted and useful information to the user.

As shown in the computing device includes a processor that is coupled to an interconnection bus . The processor includes a register set or register space which is depicted in as being entirely on chip but which could alternatively be located entirely or partially off chip and directly coupled to the processor via dedicated electrical connections and or via the interconnection bus . The processor may be any suitable processor processing unit or microprocessor. Although not shown in the computing device may be a multi processor device and thus may include one or more additional processors that are identical or similar to the processor and that are communicatively coupled to the interconnection bus .

The processor of is coupled to a chipset which includes a memory controller and a peripheral input output I O controller . As is well known a chipset typically provides I O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and or special purpose registers timers etc. that are accessible or used by one or more processors coupled to the chipset . The memory controller performs functions that enable the processor or processors if there are multiple processors to access a system memory and a mass storage memory that may include either or both of an in memory cache e.g. a cache within the memory or an on disk cache e.g. a cache within the mass storage memory .

The system memory may include any desired type of volatile and or non volatile memory such as for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM flash memory read only memory ROM etc. The mass storage memory may include any desired type of mass storage device. For example if the computing device is used to implement a mapping application having an API a user appointment module and a user routine module . The mass storage memory may include a hard disk drive an optical drive a tape storage device a solid state memory e.g. a flash memory a RAM memory etc. a magnetic memory e.g. a hard drive or any other memory suitable for mass storage. As used herein the terms module block function operation procedure routine step and method refer to tangible computer program logic or tangible computer executable instructions that provide the specified functionality to the computing device and the mobile mapping system . Thus a module block function operation procedure routine step and method can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules and routines e.g. the mapping application the API the user appointment module the user routine module etc. are stored in mass storage memory loaded into system memory and executed by a processor or can be provided from computer program products that are stored in tangible computer readable storage mediums e.g. RAM hard disk optical magnetic media etc. .

The peripheral I O controller performs functions that enable the processor to communicate with peripheral input output I O devices and a network interface a cellular network transceiver a local network transceiver and a GPS transceiver via the network interface via a peripheral I O bus . The I O devices and may be any desired type of I O device such as for example a keyboard a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT display etc. a navigation device e.g. a mouse a trackball a capacitive touch pad a joystick etc. etc. The I O devices and may be used with the mapping application the user appointment module and the user routine module to receive GPS data from the GPS transceiver send the GPS data to the backend components of the system render and display maps and user interfaces as described in relation to the figures. A cellular telephone transceiver may be resident with the local network transceiver . The local network transceiver may include support for a Wi Fi network Bluetooth Infrared or other wireless data transmission protocols. In other embodiments one element may simultaneously support each of the various wireless protocols employed by the computing device . For example a software defined radio may be able to support multiple protocols via downloadable instructions. In operation the computing device may be able to periodically poll for visible wireless network transmitters both cellular and local network on a periodic basis. Such polling may be possible even while normal wireless traffic is being supported on the computing device . The network interface may be for example an Ethernet device an asynchronous transfer mode ATM device an 802.11 wireless interface device a DSL modem a cable modem a cellular modem etc. that enables the system to communicate with another computer system having at least the elements described in relation to the system .

While the memory controller and the I O controller are depicted in as separate functional blocks within the chipset the functions performed by these blocks may be integrated within a single integrated circuit or may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits. The mobile mapping system may also implement the mapping application the user appointment module and the user routine module on remote computing devices and . The remote computing devices and may communicate with the computing device over an Ethernet link . For example the computing device may receive mapping data created by a mapping application executing on a remote computing device . In some embodiments the mapping application the user appointment module and or the user routine module may be retrieved by the computing device from a cloud computing server via the Internet . When using the cloud computing server the retrieved mapping application the user appointment module and or the user routine module may be programmatically linked with the computing device . The mapping application the user appointment module and or the user routine module may be a Java applet executing within a Java Virtual Machine JVM environment resident in the computing device or the remote computing devices . The mapping application the user appointment module and or the user routine module may also be plug ins adapted to execute in a web browser located on the computing devices and . In some embodiments the mapping application the user appointment module and or the user routine module may communicate with back end components such as the mapping system the user appointment system and the user routine system via the Internet .

The system may include but is not limited to any combination of a LAN a MAN a WAN a mobile a wired or wireless network a private network or a virtual private network. Moreover while only three remote computing devices and are illustrated in to simplify and clarify the description it is understood that any number of client computers are supported and can be in communication within the system .

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code or instructions embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal wherein the code is executed by a processor or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to some embodiments or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in some embodiments in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Further the figures depict preferred embodiments of a system for displaying dynamic map content based on the user s location and application data for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for displaying mapping application context data based on the user context data including a user s location scheduled appointment and preference for subsequent display on a mobile computing device through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

