---

title: System and method of verifying a video blackout event
abstract: A method of verifying a blackout event includes storing blackout event data at an event log database of a media distribution platform. The method includes receiving a request for the blackout event data from a subscriber event transmission interface system communicating with the media distribution platform. The method also includes sending the blackout event data to the subscriber event transmission interface system. A load-ready file including at least a portion of the blackout event data is accessible to an electronic data warehouse communicating with the subscriber event transmission interface system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491516&OS=09491516&RS=09491516
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09491516
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150219
---
The present application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 845 240 filed Aug. 27 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure is generally related to verifying a blackout event associated with video programming.

Advances in video distribution technologies allow service providers to offer a wide variety of video content to subscribers. In some cases however video content providers may designate certain video content to be blacked out i.e. not shown for some subscribers. For example a sporting event may be blacked out for local subscribers due to insufficient ticket sales. Content providers may desire to verify that blackout events occurred i.e. were created changed deleted or any combination thereof at the client level e.g. at set top box devices of designated subscribers at the network level e.g. at video servers or other network entities or any combination thereof. Video distribution platforms may store blackout event data but the data may not be compatible with external data storage systems that are accessible to the video content providers. Hence there is a need for an improved system and method of verifying a video blackout event.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a system to verify a video blackout event is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a data center that communicates with an Internet Protocol Television IPTV platform . The data center includes a subscriber event transmission interface SETI communicating with an enterprise data warehouse EDW system via an internal secure network such as a private Internet Protocol IP network. In a particular embodiment the IPTV platform can be located at a video head end office VHO such as a regional VHO. The IPTV platform communicates with set top box devices via an IPTV access network . In an illustrative embodiment the SETI may communicate with multiple instances of the IPTV platform such as multiple VHOs.

In an illustrative embodiment the IPTV platform logs data related to changes to video programming at the set top box devices . Changes to video programming include program substitutions due to blackouts such as sporting events that may be locally or regionally blacked out due to ticket sales or other factors. The IPTV platform can log data received from the set top box devices confirming when a substitution started when the substitute ended the substitute content other client blackout event data or any combination thereof. The IPTV platform can also log data related to a blackout creation event at a video server a blackout status change at the video server other server blackout event data or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the IPTV platform can store the data as database records that include a parsable file such as a file that includes a Binary Large Object.

The SETI can establish a connection with the database at the IPTV platform and query the database for data records pertaining to one or more blackout events. The SETI can pull the data records to a database at the SETI such as a staging database. Further the SETI can parse the data records into individual data elements. In an illustrative embodiment the SETI can utilize a first data transformation services DTS process to pull the data records to the SETI database and a second DTS process to parse the data records into particular data elements. The SETI can build data records from the data elements that can be imported by the EDW system .

For example the SETI can create a load ready file that contains client related blackout event data from the IPTV platform and can send the load ready file to the EDW system . In addition the SETI can create a load ready file that contains server related blackout event data from the IPTV platform and can send the load ready file to the EDW system . The SETI can create or convert the load ready files using a format that is specific to the EDW . For example the SETI can create load ready files in extensible markup language XML format fixed length comma separated value CSV format or another EDW format. The SETI can send the files to the EDW via file transfer protocol FTP via the internal secure network which can be governed by a firewall. The transfer can be facilitated via a mechanized identification.

In an illustrative embodiment data stored at the EDW system can be accessible to video content providers. For example blackout event data related to a blackout event associated with a particular content provider can be accessible via the EDW system in response to the receipt of an authentication token associated with the video content provider.

Referring to a second particular embodiment of a system to verify a video blackout event is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a subscriber event transmission interface SETI that communicates with an Internet Protocol Television IPTV platform . Further the SETI communicates with an electronic data warehouse EDW server . The IPTV platform communicates with a service delivery platform SDP . In addition the IPTV platform communicates with a plurality of set top box devices via an IPTV access network . In one embodiment the IPTV platform includes at least one branch management server that is adapted to receive data regarding blackout event creation deletion alteration or any combination thereof from client devices such as the set top box devices from one or more acquisition servers or any combination thereof.

In a particular illustrative embodiment the IPTV platform includes a plurality of servers or other network entities that are adapted to provide various functions with respect to providing IPTV service to the set top box devices . The network entities can communicate via at least one private network such as a core IP network via a public network or any combination thereof. For instance the IPTV platform can include an event log system that is adapted to store data related to blackout events other changes to video programming or any combination thereof which take place at the set top box devices . The event log system can be adapted to log data received from the branch management server s confirming when a substitution started at a set top box device when the substitute ended the substitute content other client blackout event data or any combination thereof. The event log system is also adapted to log data related to a blackout creation event at a distribution server D server a blackout status change at the D server other server blackout event data or any combination thereof. The event log receives data regarding blackout events at the set top box devices the D server or any combination thereof from the branch management server s .

In a particular embodiment the IPTV platform can be adapted to provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs that facilitate communication with the service delivery platform SDP . The SDP can be adapted to provision a blackout to a particular plurality of set top box devices communicating with the IPTV platform by calling an API at the IPTV platform . In an illustrative embodiment an operations support system business support system OSS BSS server can be adapted to provide the API s . The SDP can communicate to one or more servers at the IPTV platform e.g. the acquisition servers a start time end time replacement content affected area or any combination thereof with respect to a blackout event.

In an illustrative non limiting embodiment the IPTV platform can include other systems such as a terminal server that is adapted to provide terminal devices with a point of connection to the IPTV platform . Further the IPTV platform can include a subscriber management system that is adapted to store account information associated with users who access the IPTV system . The subscriber management system can also be adapted to store subscriber or customer data and create subscriber or customer profiles that are associated with IP addresses stock keeping unit SKU numbers other identifiers or any combination thereof of corresponding set top box devices. Further the subscriber management system can be adapted to store data associated with capabilities of set top box devices associated with particular customers. In one embodiment the subscriber management system can be adapted to store geographic information associated with each of the set top box devices which can be used by one or more network entities at the IPTV platform to determine whether a blackout event relates to the set top box devices .

In a particular embodiment the IPTV platform can include a notification system that is adapted to provide programming notifications to the set top box devices such as blackout event notifications and substitute programming notifications. The IPTV platform can also include a management tool that is adapted to provide various network management functions such as load balancing network health monitoring application health monitoring other network management functions or any combination thereof with respect to the IPTV platform the IPTV access network or a combination thereof.

In a particular embodiment the IPTV platform can include an asset importer that is adapted to import video on demand VOD programming service applications or other assets used by the IPTV platform in providing services other than IPTV programming. In addition the IPTV platform can include an electronic programming guide EPG importer that is adapted to receive data regarding IPTV programming VOD content audio channel content or any combination thereof which can be included in an EPG sent to the set top box devices by the IPTV platform .

In a particular embodiment the IPTV platform can include a connected services framework CSF architecture that is adapted to provide customer service representatives of an IPTV provider with information to respond to customer inquiries and complaints. The CSF architecture can also be adapted to integrate customer accounts across various legacy systems. The IPTV platform includes one or more acquisition servers adapted to receive video content from one or more video content providers and to send the video content to one or more D servers for distribution to the set top box devices . The IPTV platform also includes one or more VOD servers adapted to send VOD content to one or more D servers directly to the set top box devices or a combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment the IPTV platform can include a bootstrap service system that is adapted to alleviate quality of service problems caused by network errors to the extent possible until the errors can be resolved or other solutions are implemented at the IPTV platform .

In a particular illustrative embodiment the SDP can notify the IPTV platform that particular programming is to be replaced or otherwise blacked out for the set top box devices . In one embodiment the SDP can identify replacement programming to the IPTV platform . The acquisition server can acquire the replacement programming and serve it to the set top box devices via one or more of the D servers . The event log system can acquire data from the branch management server indicating a blackout event start the distribution of replacement programming the replacement programming distributed a server status change such as a blackout end time or return to regularly scheduled programming or any combination thereof. In an illustrative non limiting embodiment the blackout event the replacement programming or a combination thereof can be indicated on an EPG provided by the IPTV platform .

The event log system can receive data from the branch management server s regarding each of the set top box devices that requested a channel associated with the blackout event. The data can include a blackout start time which may include a programming substitution start time a blackout end time which may include a programming substitution end time the replacement programming received by the set top box device if any a substitution event change or any combination thereof.

The SETI can include processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . The memory can include various modules that are adapted to provide various functions of the SETI with respect to verifying blackout events. The modules can include processor readable instructions that are executable by the processing logic such as instructions included in one or more applications operating systems or other computer programs. In other embodiments the modules can include any combination of instructions and hardware logic.

In a particular embodiment the memory includes a data transformation services DTS module that is executable by the processing logic to pull data related to blackout events from the event log system at the IPTV platform . The memory can include a SETI database adapted to store connection details for each instance of the IPTV platform with which the SETI communicates. The connection values can be changed dynamically without changing the DTS process. The memory can include a staging database that is adapted to store the data pulled by the DTS module . In an illustrative embodiment the data can be sent directly to the staging database via a DTS bulk transfer process secured over a virtual private network VPN connection or other secure connection. The staging database can be adapted to store the data for a pre defined time period e.g. 10 days after the data is pushed to the EDW server in case of errors and to discard the data after the pre defined time period expires.

In a particular embodiment the event log system can be adapted to send data in the form of one or more data records that require parsing. The DTS module can be executable by the processing logic to parse the data record s into data elements. The memory can include a data worker module executable by the processing logic to create a load ready file according to EDW standards such as a format specific to the EDW server . The load ready file includes at least some of the data elements such as Client Blackout Event Start Client Blackout Event End or other data elements. The memory can include a file writer module that is executable by the processing logic to write data to the actual file that is sent to the EDW server which includes the data elements. For example the file writer module can be executable by the processing logic to provide header and trailer portions bulk detail record writing functionalities to verify that the file is EDW load ready or any combination thereof.

In a particular embodiment the memory can include a file transfer protocol FTP module or other transport module that is executable by the processing logic to push data to the EDW server . In an illustrative embodiment the processing logic can send data pertaining to individual blackout events to the EDW server via the FTP module . In another embodiment the data can be sent to the EDW server in batches at pre defined time intervals such as a daily batch transfer to the EDW server . In an illustrative embodiment the data can be accessible to content providers via the EDW server to verify that blackout events were implemented via the acquisition server s the D server s the set top box devices the branch management server s or any combination thereof.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a method of verifying a video blackout event is illustrated. At block a subscriber event log interface SETI system connects with an event log database at a video head end office VHO or other Internet Protocol Television IPTV platform. In one embodiment the VHO can be one of a plurality of IPTV platforms with which the SETI system communicates. Moving to block the SETI system retrieves blackout event data from the event log database. In an illustrative embodiment the SETI system can query the event log database for data associated with one or more event identifications. Proceeding to block the SETI system stores blackout event data received from the event log database at a staging database stored at the SETI system. The blackout event data received from the event log database can include an extensible markup language XML message. In other embodiments the data can include a parsable binary large object such as a comma separated value object.

Continuing to block the SETI system parses the XML message into separate data elements. For example the data elements can include a client blackout start time a client blackout end time an identification of substitute content a server blackout start time a server blackout end time other blackout event data or any combination thereof. Advancing to block the SETI system writes at least one of the data elements to an electronic data warehouse EDW format. For example the SETI system can create an EDW load ready file that includes the formatted data elements. At block the SETI system sends the formatted data elements such as the load ready file to an electronic data warehouse. The data elements can be sent via file transfer protocol FTP over a secure network. In a particular embodiment the data elements can be accessible to content providers via the EDW to confirm the provisioning of blackout events with respect to video programming. The method terminates at .

Referring to a second particular embodiment of a method of verifying a video blackout event is illustrated. At block an event log database of an Internet Protocol Television IPTV platform receives data from a branch management server or other network entity indicating the creation of a blackout event such as a blackout event provisioned by a service delivery platform SDP communicating with the IPTV platform. Moving to block the event log database assigns an event identification to the blackout event. Proceeding to block the event log database can receive and store data from the branch management server indicating a time at which the blackout event is started. The event log database can also receive data indicating the video content sent by the branch management server instead of blacked out video content.

Continuing to block the event log database can receive and store data from the branch management server indicating a time at which the blackout event ended. Advancing to block the event log database can receive and store data from a plurality of set top box devices indicating a time at which the affected video content was blacked out at each set top box device a time at which the blackout event ended and replacement video content that was received at each set top box device during the blackout period. The event log database can store data received at in association with the event identification assigned to the blackout event at . The data can be stored as one or more parsable files such as extensible markup language XML files or comma separated value CSV files.

At block the event log database receives a request from a subscriber event transmission interface SETI system for data associated with the event identification. Moving to block the event log database retrieves the data and sends the data to the SETI system. In an illustrative embodiment the data can be accessible to one or more third parties such as content providers via an electronic data warehouse. The method terminates at .

In some embodiments the methods disclosed herein can be performed as described. In other embodiments particular aspects of the methods can be performed in alterative sequences or simultaneously. For example the event log database can receive data regarding blackout events when the blackout event is provisioned as the blackout event occurs after the blackout event is complete or any combination thereof. Moreover the methods may be performed with respect to platforms other than IPTV such as cable and satellite television blackout events.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a general computer system is shown and is designated . The computer system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosed embodiments are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be reduced. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that the Abstract of the Disclosure will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments that fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

