---

title: Method and system for assessing damage to infrastructure
abstract: A method and system may assess the damage to infrastructure using aerial images captured from an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), a manned aerial vehicle (MAV) or from a satellite device. Specifically, an item of infrastructure may be identified for assessing damage. The UAV, MAV, or satellite device may then capture aerial images within an area which surrounds the identified infrastructure item. Subsequently, the aerial images may be analyzed to determine a condition and the extent and/or severity of the damage to the infrastructure item. Furthermore, the aerial images along with indications of the extent of the damage may be displayed on a computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390489&OS=09390489&RS=09390489
owner: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
number: 09390489
owner_city: Bloomington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150724
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 14 510 784 filed on Oct. 9 2014 entitled Method and System For Assessing Damage To Infrastructure the entire disclosure of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to a method and system for assessing damage to infrastructure such as roads highways bridges etc.

Infrastructure such as roads highways bridges etc. often becomes damaged over time due to wear and tear natural disasters extreme weather conditions etc. To perform regular maintenance on the infrastructure personnel may need to travel to the site to determine how to repair or replace the damaged infrastructure.

Often the investigations can be time consuming difficult and even dangerous for the on site personnel. For example in order to investigate the damage to a highway an inspector may have to travel to the highway and inspect the condition of the road. While a lane or section of the highway may be blocked off to prevent vehicles from passing by during the inspection some vehicles may accidentally cross these barriers and crash into the inspectors performing the investigation resulting in injuries or even death.

Even if the inspectors perform the investigation without getting injured performing the full investigation may still be time consuming. In addition to the time required to drive to and from the site and to perform the inspection itself significant paperwork and calculations may be involved in calculating the cost of repairing the item of infrastructure. For example if an inspector takes photos on the site to assess the amount of damage to the highway the inspector may have to come back to her office research the cost of the damaged infrastructure item and research repair costs. All of these steps are time consuming and both delay repairs and prevent the inspector from assessing damage to other items of infrastructure.

To assess the extent or severity of the damage to infrastructure an automated infrastructure evaluation system may identify an item of infrastructure for assessing damage. For example a bridge a road a highway a tunnel a sewer treatment plant a water treatment plant a reservoir an aqueduct an electric power grid a communications tower a sidewalk a paved walkway a rail line a waterway e.g. locks and dams a port facility a public transportation system etc. may be identified. The infrastructure evaluation system may also determine boundaries for assessing the damage to the item of infrastructure. For example if a stretch of Highway from exit to exit is to be evaluated the system may identify a set of boundaries e.g. global positioning system GPS coordinates which encapsulates the area between exit and exit on Highway .

Using the identified boundaries the system may perform an automatic inspection of the infrastructure item. The automatic inspection may be performed by an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV or by a swarm of UAVs working together which may be controlled by an inspector or by the system and flown within the specified boundaries to capture aerial images of the item. Alternatively the automatic inspection may be performed by a satellite which also captures aerial images of the infrastructure item for the specified boundaries. Moreover the inspection may also be performed by a manned aerial vehicle MAV which captures aerial images of the infrastructure item. Each captured aerial image may be associated with a location for example a GPS location and the GPS location may be used to aggregate the aerial images to form a 3 dimensional 3D image.

The aerial images may also be analyzed to determine the condition of the infrastructure item as well as the extent or severity of the damage to the infrastructure item. Moreover the system may assign an indicator e.g. a color from a set of colors which indicates the extent of the damage to the infrastructure item or to a specific portion of the infrastructure item. The system may also display the assigned indicator along with the infrastructure item on a computing device for a user such as the inspector to observe. In this manner the damage assessment for infrastructure can be performed automatically without requiring an inspector to spend her time and risk injury investigating the damage. Moreover the system provides indicators to allow an inspector to quickly and easily view areas where the damage is most severe in order to determine costs and the necessary repairs for the severely damaged areas.

In an embodiment a method for assessing damage to infrastructure using aerial images is provided. The method includes identifying an item of infrastructure for assessing damage and receiving one or more aerial images wherein the one or more aerial images display the item of infrastructure. The method further includes determining a condition of at least a portion of the item of infrastructure based on the one or more aerial images determining a damage severity level of the at least a portion of the item of infrastructure based on the determined condition and assigning a damage severity level indicator to the at least a portion of the item of infrastructure based on the damage severity level. Additionally the method includes displaying the item of infrastructure and the damage severity level indicator on a user interface.

In another embodiment a system for assessing damage to infrastructure using aerial images is provided. The system includes a user interface a communication network and one or more computing devices communicatively coupled to the communication network and the user interface. At least one of the computing devices is configured to identify an item of infrastructure for assessing damage and receive one or more aerial images wherein the one or more aerial images display the item of infrastructure. At least one of computing devices is further configured to determine a condition of at least a portion of the item of infrastructure based on the one or more aerial images determine a damage severity level of the at least a portion of the item of infrastructure based on the determined condition and assign a damage severity level indicator to the at least a portion of the item of infrastructure based on the damage severity level. The at least one computing device is also configured to display the item of infrastructure and the damage severity level indicator on the user interface.

Although the following text sets forth a detailed description of numerous different embodiments it should be understood that the legal scope of the description is defined by the words of the claims set forth at the end of this patent and equivalents. The detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment since describing every possible embodiment would be impractical. Numerous alternative embodiments could be implemented using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this patent which would still fall within the scope of the claims.

It should also be understood that unless a term is expressly defined in this patent using the sentence As used herein the term is hereby defined to mean . . . or a similar sentence there is no intent to limit the meaning of that term either expressly or by implication beyond its plain or ordinary meaning and such term should not be interpreted to be limited in scope based on any statement made in any section of this patent other than the language of the claims . To the extent that any term recited in the claims at the end of this patent is referred to in this patent in a manner consistent with a single meaning that is done for sake of clarity only so as to not confuse the reader and it is not intended that such claim term be limited by implication or otherwise to that single meaning. Finally unless a claim element is defined by reciting the word means and a function without the recital of any structure it is not intended that the scope of any claim element be interpreted based on the application of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph.

Accordingly the term aerial image as used herein may be used to refer to any image data within the electromagnetic spectrum i.e. including the visible light spectrum as well as the invisible light spectrum which is captured from an elevated position. Aerial images may include visible light imaging radar imaging near infrared imaging thermal infrared imaging hyperspectral imaging multispectral imaging full spectral imaging etc. For example an image captured by a satellite a manned aerial vehicle MAV or an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV may be referred to herein as an aerial image. An aerial image may be made up of data points for example pixel data points where each data point may correspond to a specific global positioning system GPS location. An aerial image may also include video captured from an elevated position.

Also the term infrastructure item or item of infrastructure as used herein generally refers to a physical component that provides commodities and or services essential to enable sustain or enhance societal living conditions. An infrastructure item may include a highway a road a bridge a tunnel a sewer treatment plant a water treatment plant a reservoir an aqueduct an electric power grid a communications tower a sidewalk a paved walkway a rail line a waterway e.g. locks and dams a port facility a public transportation system etc. or any portion thereof. In some embodiments items of infrastructure may not include buildings.

Generally speaking to perform the automatic infrastructure evaluation process an aerial image capturing device which may be a satellite MAV or one or several UAV s is are directed to capture images within a specified set of boundaries which encapsulates an identified item of infrastructure e.g. a highway segment between exit and exit . The aerial image capturing device may be directed by a client device having user controls for determining the location and the amount of photographs or video captured. The captured aerial images may then be provided to the client device or to a server computer. The aerial images may be aggregated for example using photogrammetry stereoscopy or LIDAR to create a 3D image of the identified item.

The 2D or 3D image may be displayed on the client device and may be created at a predefined level of detail e.g. accurate to within ten percent and or may be adjustable e.g. a user of the system may be able to zoom in or zoom out of the image . Moreover the 2D or 3D image may be made up of data points for example pixel data points where each data point may correspond to a specific global positioning system GPS location. Each of these data points may then be compared with other images of the same type of infrastructure for determining the condition of the infrastructure item depicted by the data points. For example an image of a bridge may be compared to an image of a perfectly intact bridge. The condition may be used to determine the severity of the damage to the item of infrastructure or to a portion of the item of infrastructure. This damage severity level may be provided to an inspector for example on the user interface of the client device for determining a cost of repair and or replacement. Alternatively the client device or the server computer may automatically determine the cost of repair and or replacement based on the damage severity level and or the aerial images.

The memory is a computer readable non transitory storage device that may include both persistent e.g. a hard disk and non persistent e.g. RAM memory components stores instructions executable on the CPU and or the GPU that make up an infrastructure evaluation module IEM a remote control module and location data and sensor data on which the remote control module operates. The remote control module includes an incremental movement module that allows a user to easily control the UAV s via step like incremental movements in which one incremental movement is in response to one single user command.

The remote control module and the infrastructure evaluation module according to various implementations operate as separately executable software applications plugins that extend the functionality of another software application such as a web browser application programming interfaces API invokable by a software application etc. The instructions that make up the remote control module and the infrastructure evaluation module may be compiled and executable on the CPU and or the GPU directly or not compiled and interpreted by the CPU at runtime. However merely illustrates a condensed version of the client device and a more detailed version of the client device is described below with reference to .

Referring still to each UAV includes a controller that communicates with one or more proximity sensors one or more stabilization sensors a Global Positioning System GPS unit image sensors and a communications unit . The image sensors may include one or more filters for infrared imaging hyperspectral imaging multispectral imaging full spectral imaging etc. or alternatively the image sensors may include one or more sensors which receive image data outside of the visible light spectrum such as an infrared image sensor. The controller includes a processor that executes instructions from a computer readable memory to implement a control module and a stabilization module . The control module may invoke the stabilization module to retrieve data from the stabilization sensors i.e. sensors relating to avionics to implement a control function such as that associated with a control routine that performs PID proportional integral derivative fuzzy logic nonlinear etc. control to maintain the stability of the UAV s . For instance the stabilization sensors may include one or more of a directional speed sensor a rotational speed sensors a tilt angle sensor an inertial sensor an accelerometer sensor or any other suitable sensor for assisting in stabilization of an aerial craft. Of course the stabilization module may implement any suitable technique of stabilizing the remote aerial device in a hover or stationary three dimensional position.

The control module may retrieve data from the proximity sensors . These proximity sensors may include any sensor or technique that assists the control module in determining a distance and a direction to the infrastructure. The one or more proximity sensors may include optic flow sensors ultrasonic sensors infrared sensors LIDAR Light Detection and Ranging a stereo vision system SVS that may utilize the image sensors e.g. one or more cameras to implement stereoscopic imaging techniques to capture aerial images of the infrastructure item and to create 3D images of the infrastructure item. The control module may also receive instructions from the client device to capture aerial images at specific locations or time intervals.

The GPS unit may use Assisted GPS A GPS satellite GPS or any other suitable global positioning protocol or system that locates the position of the UAV s . Moreover the GPS unit may also determine the position of the aerial images or of data points within the aerial images captured by the UAV s or the GPS may be combined with the distance and direction sensors to determine the position of the aerial images and positions of data points within an aerial image. For example A GPS utilizes terrestrial cell phone towers or wi fi hotspots e.g. wireless router points to more accurately and more quickly determine the location of the device while satellite GPS generally are more useful in more remote regions that lack cell towers or wi fi hotspots. The communication unit may communicate with the server or the client device via any suitable wireless communication protocol network such as a wireless telephony network e.g. GSM CDMA LTE etc. a wi fi network 802.11 standards a WiMAX network a Bluetooth network etc.

As mentioned above the system may also include a satellite device which includes an image sensor for capturing aerial images and a GPS unit for determining the position of each image. For example the satellite device may determine GPS coordinates of the boundaries of an aerial image and also may determine GPS coordinates of data points such as pixel data points of the aerial image. The satellite device may also include a processor which executes instructions from a computer readable memory to implement an image capturing module which may capture and transmit satellite images at the request of the client device . For example the client device may request satellite images between specified GPS coordinates and the image capturing module may transmit satellite images within the specified coordinates. Moreover in some embodiments the client device may specify the number of satellite images for the image capturing module to capture and the zoom level. The client device or the server and the satellite device may communicate via a communication unit via any suitable wireless communication protocol network such as a wireless telephony network e.g. GSM CDMA LTE etc. a wi fi network 802.11 standards a WiMAX network a Bluetooth network etc.

The server may include infrastructure data e.g. a list of items of infrastructure such as Highway the Golden Gate Bridge the L Station etc. location data e.g. locations of the items of infrastructure locations of portions of the items of infrastructure etc. previous image data e.g. aerial images of items of infrastructure taken at an earlier date and financial data e.g. infrastructure cost estimates of property and materials similar to those that were damaged or destroyed labor costs for repairing replacing the infrastructure etc. from an infrastructure database a location database a previous image database and a financial database respectively. The server then may provide the infrastructure data the location data the previous image data the financial data and appropriate indications of how certain portions of the infrastructure data and the location data are linked to the client device as part of the location data . The client device may use this location data to determine a geographic location that the UAV s is are initially sent to and may use the previous image data to determine a condition of an item of infrastructure as compared to its previous condition. The financial data may be used for performing cost estimates for repairing infrastructure. The infrastructure database the location database the previous image database and the financial database may be disposed within the client device depending on the implementation. The server may also include a processor which executes instructions from a computer readable memory to implement an infrastructure evaluation module which may be the same as the infrastructure evaluation module of the client device . In some embodiments the infrastructure evaluation module may be disposed in the client device in the server or in a combination of the server and the client device .

The client device may also include a user interface UI which includes the remote user interface and the image user interface of . The remote user interface may include user controls for directing the UAV s to capture images for requesting aerial images from the MAV or for requesting satellite images from the satellite device at specific locations. On the other hand the image user interface may display aerial images of an infrastructure item and may also display damage severity levels for the infrastructure item.

The infrastructure evaluation module IEM may contain one or more of an image receiving module IRM an infrastructure condition assessment module ICAM and or an infrastructure damage severity determination module IDSDM . The IEM may determine the severity of the damage also referred to herein as a damage severity level associated with an item of infrastructure according to the presently described techniques. More specifically the IEM may automatically determine the condition of an item of infrastructure based on stored and received aerial images and or other data describing items of infrastructure of the same type e.g. if the item of infrastructure is a communications tower the condition is determined based on stored images of communications towers . The aerial images may be stored in the memory and or RAM . In instances where the IEM executes on a server device the damage severity level for an item of infrastructure may be transmitted to the client device . Additionally the IEM may perform certain calculations on the server device of while other calculations are performed on the client device . Moreover the memory may also include a remote control module and location data and sensor data on which the remote control module operates as described above with reference to .

The location designation module may identify an item of infrastructure for assessing damage. To identify the item of infrastructure the location designation module may connect to a third party server not shown . The third party server can include data from news sources e.g. national news networks regional news networks newspapers magazines news websites and others data from weather sources e.g. the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration other federal state or local governmental weather bureaus commercial weather services weather websites and others data from governmental sources e.g. the Department of the Interior the Department of Homeland Security other federal state and local governmental sources and others data from social networks e.g. Facebook Twitter Google Instagram and others data from public databases data from private databases e.g. consultants data miners surveyors and others crowd sourced weather data e.g. connected users or user devices may report extreme weather conditions to a central server or other sources. The location designation module may then use this data to determine geographic locations where damage to infrastructure is likely to have occurred and may identify an item s of infrastructure within the determined geographic locations for example using the location database of . Moreover in some embodiments the user of the client device such as an inspector may input a name of an item of infrastructure or a portion thereof such as Golden Gate Bridge or Route 66 in Illinois between exit and exit into the client device which may be provided to the location designation module .

In any event when the infrastructure item is identified the infrastructure evaluation module may request and or receive aerial images of the identified infrastructure item. For example the infrastructure evaluation module may receive the aerial images of the identified item from the satellite device of the MAV or from the UAV s . The aerial images may be received from the UAV s by automatically directing the one or several UAV s to fly within the set of boundaries which encapsulate the identified item. For example the infrastructure evaluation module may look up the location of the identified infrastructure item in the location database to determine the appropriate set of boundaries. The UAV s may also be directed to take several photographs or capture video at different locations surrounding the infrastructure item and at several angles. Alternatively after the infrastructure item is identified a user such as an inspector may control the UAV s remotely through a series of user controls on the remote user interface to cause the UAV s to take pictures at different locations surrounding the infrastructure item and at several angles.

After the aerial images are captured and received for the identified infrastructure item the infrastructure evaluation module may combine the aerial images using an aggregation module . The aerial images may be combined to generate a 3D image of the infrastructure item using 3D imaging techniques such as LIDAR stereoscopy or photogrammetry. The aggregation module may utilize the Cartesian or GPS coordinates received with each aerial image to reconstruct a 3D image of the infrastructure item using the aerial images captured at different locations and angles. In some embodiments the 3D aerial image may be created at a predefined level of detail e.g. accurate to within ten percent and or may be adjustable e.g. a user or the system may be able to zoom in or zoom out 

In any event the filtering module may analyze the received aerial images and filter out i.e. remove from consideration for further analysis one or more irrelevant and or unexpected data points. For example if the damage assessment is for a road the aerial images may include data points which display the road as well as data points where damage assessment does not need to be performed e.g. data points depicting nearby side streets and surrounding terrain such as grass mountains bodies of water the sky trees etc. . The filtering module may remove the unnecessary data points so that the unnecessary data points are not included and or considered in the damage assessment for the road. Various image processing techniques such as edge detection may be used by the filtering module for determining the unnecessary data points of an aerial image s .

Once the filtering module removes the unnecessary data points from the aerial images the remaining data points may be compared with another predefined infrastructure item using the comparison module . The comparison module may compare the data points of the infrastructure item with data describing a predefined infrastructure item of the same type. If the infrastructure item is a bridge for example the comparison module may compare data extracted by the filtering module with previously stored images of an intact bridge. Based on these comparisons the comparison module may determine physical differences between the bridge depicted by the data points and the intact bridge. For example the comparison module may determine that the bridge differs in color e.g. due to rusting thickness e.g. due to cracks or dents in the surface and or in shape e.g. due to structural damage to the bridge from the intact bridge.

Moreover the comparison module may also compare the data points depicting a bridge with a previously stored image s of the same bridge for example from five years ago when the bridge was known to be in good condition. The previously stored image s of the same bridge may be obtained from the previous image data stored at the server or the client device of . After an aerial image of an item of infrastructure is captured the aerial image may be stored in the previous image data so that it may be compared with a newly captured image of the same infrastructure item at a later date. In this manner the degradation maintenance of an infrastructure item may be determined over time for a more detailed analysis of the damage.

In addition to comparing data points the comparison module may compare a set of data points which make up a component of an infrastructure item to a previously stored image of the same component. For example a set of data points may display a deck of a bridge the shoulder on a highway etc. The entire set may then be compared to data displaying for example a highway shoulder in good condition to determine physical differences between the set of data points and the data displaying the highway shoulder.

After comparisons have been made for the infrastructure item a condition determination module may determine the conditions of various portions of the infrastructure item. Conditions may include condition categories such as poor fair moderate good excellent etc. or may include numerical condition scores for example from a scale of one to one hundred. For example a portion of a bridge having dents and cracks may be determined to be in poor condition.

In addition to determining conditions of various portions of the infrastructure item the condition determination module may determine the size of a portion of the infrastructure item which requires repair. For example the condition determination module may determine a portion of the bridge is in poor condition because it is dented. Moreover the condition determination module may determine the size of the dent based on the GPS coordinates of an aerial image depicting the bridge. This information may be used to determine the cost of repairing the dent.

Each data point along with the respective determined condition may then be provided to the infrastructure damage severity determination module as depicted in . The infrastructure damage severity determination module may include a damage severity level determination module and a damage severity level indicator module . The damage severity level determination module may determine that a data point or a set of data points belongs to a particular damage severity level category from a set of damage severity level categories. For example the set of damage severity level categories may include light damage moderate damage severe damage total loss no loss very light damage etc. In other embodiments the damage severity determination module may determine a score for each data point such as a numeric percentage representing the amount of damage to the portion of the infrastructure item represented by the data point. For example the damage severity determination level module may determine 100 percent damage to a bridge deck which has split in half and thus needs to be completely replaced. On the other hand the damage severity determination level module may determine 50 percent damage to a large crack or pothole in the road which can be repaired and does not need to be replaced. In some embodiments the damage severity level determination module may determine a damage severity level category based on the numeric percentage representing the amount of damage to the portion of the infrastructure item represented by the data point. For example the damage severity level determination module may determine portions of infrastructure items having less than 20 percent damage or some other predetermined damage threshold are within the light category portions of infrastructure items having between 20 and 50 percent damage are within the moderate category and portions of infrastructure items having more than 50 percent damage are within the severe category.

The damage severity level determination module may determine the amount of damage based on the condition of the portion of the infrastructure item. For example there may be a higher amount of damage determined for a bridge in poor condition than a bridge in excellent condition. The amount of damage may also be determined based on whether a portion of the infrastructure item needs to be replaced or can be repaired. Portions of infrastructure items requiring replacement may correspond to a higher amount of damage than portions of infrastructure items requiring repair. The damage severity level determination module may include a set of rules for determining whether a particular portion of an infrastructure item needs to be repaired or can be replaced based on its condition. For example suspension cables on a bridge in poor condition may need to be replaced whereas a portion of a road in the same poor condition may be repaired. The damage severity level may then be determined based on the amount of damage as described above.

Once the damage severity level is determined for each data point or each set of data points the damage severity level indicator module may assign a damage severity level indicator to the data point or a set of data points. For example each damage severity level category from the set of damage severity level categories may be assigned a respective damage severity level indicator. In some embodiments the damage severity level indicator may be a color selected from a set of colors. More specifically the moderate damage severity level category may correspond to the color yellow for example. Moreover the severe damage severity level category may correspond to the color red and the light damage severity level category may correspond to the color green. In other embodiments a range of damage severity level percentages may be assigned a damage severity level indicator. For example damage severity level percentages less than 20 percent may correspond to the color green. The corresponding damage severity level indicators may then be assigned to each data point based on the determined damage severity level for the data point. For example a set of data points representing a portion of a road with moderate damage may be assigned the color yellow. An assigned damage severity level indicator for a set of data points may then be appended to one or more aerial images which may be 3D aerial images and which display the corresponding data points. For example an aerial image displaying the portion of the road may display the color yellow overlaying the portion of the road.

While the damage severity level indicators are described as the colors red green and yellow the indicators are not limited to those particular colors. Instead the damage severity level indicators may include any color and also may include any other suitable representation of a damage severity level. For example damage severity level indicators may include numbers which are placed over each data point or set of data points labels symbols different shading techniques etc.

The aerial images which display infrastructure items and include damage severity level indicators may then be displayed on the client device for an inspector to view. In some embodiments the client device may display a 3D aerial image of an infrastructure item with damage severity level indicators overlaying the image. Moreover in some embodiments the client device may display several aerial images for a infrastructure item and include the damage severity level indicators in each aerial image.

In some embodiments the infrastructure evaluation module may include a set of rules for determining a cost estimate based on the damage severity levels of the various portions or components of an infrastructure item. For example the infrastructure evaluation module may determine a cost estimate for repairing or replacing portions of infrastructure items based on corresponding damage severity levels. In some embodiments the set of rules may include a table with a predetermined cost estimate for the different types of infrastructure items as well as their respective quality e.g. bridges may be more expensive to repair than highways size e.g. based on square footage and damage severity level. For example the set of rules may include a cost estimate of 50 000 for a small road with moderate damage. The set of rules may be stored in the financial database . Cost estimates for each portion of an infrastructure item may be aggregated and or combined to determine an overall cost estimate for repairing the damage to the infrastructure item. In other embodiments an inspector or a user of the client device may view the damage severity levels of the various portions or components of an infrastructure item and determine the appropriate cost estimate for repair. In addition to cost estimates the damage severity levels may also be used to determine whether further inspection may be necessary whether a road highway bridge etc. may be closed for an extended period of time for construction repairs etc.

Additionally the display may include a road as well as terrain surrounding the road such as grass mountains the sky clouds etc. Data points depicting the terrain surrounding the roads may be filtered out by the filtering module of during the comparison stage. On the other hand the data points depicting the road may be compared to a previously stored image of the road or a road in good condition to determine conditions of portions of the road and resulting damage severity levels. Based on this comparison a first portion of the road near the center has a green damage severity level indicator indicating that the center of the road has experienced light damage. Surrounding the center of the road a red damage severity level indicator overlays a second portion indicating that the second portion surrounding the center has experienced severe damage. This may be because of large dents or potholes in the pavement. Thus the second portion may require extensive repairs whereas the first portion may not require any repairs and instead may require further inspection at a later date. However in some embodiments the amount of repairs may also depend on the item of infrastructure. For example a tunnel may require replacement when experiencing severe damage while a road may require repair when experiencing the same amount of loss. Moreover surrounding the second portion is a third portion of the road which does not include a damage severity level indicator. The third portion may not have experienced any damage and therefore may not require any repairs or further inspection.

The aerial image on the display may be just one of several images of the road . Moreover while the display depicts a small section of the road which ends at a bend other aerial images may display additional sections taken at different angles locations and or zoom levels than the display . The other aerial images may be combined and or aggregated to display a larger section of the road depicting several bends.

A user such as an inspector or the infrastructure evaluation module may determine the amount of damage to each portion of the infrastructure item to calculate a cost estimate and combine the cost estimates for the portions to determine an overall cost estimate for repairing replacing the infrastructure item. Moreover the user may also determine the amount of damage to each portion to determine whether a road highway bridge etc. may be closed for an extended period of time for construction repairs etc.

At block an item of infrastructure may be identified for assessing damage. For example the item of infrastructure may be a highway a road a bridge a tunnel a sewer treatment plant a water treatment plant a reservoir an aqueduct an electric power grid a communications tower a sidewalk a paved walkway a rail line a waterway e.g. locks and dams a port facility or a public transportation system. Then location boundaries for capturing aerial images of the item of infrastructure may be determined block . For example the location boundaries may be GPS coordinates which encapsulate the identified item of infrastructure. The location boundaries may be determined by looking up the location of the identified infrastructure item in the location database .

At block aerial images which display the infrastructure item may be received. The aerial images may be received from the satellite device the MAV or the UAV s of . In some embodiments user controls may be disposed on the client device which allow a user such as an inspector to control the UAV s remotely and determine when and where to capture aerial images. In other embodiments the UAV s may be preprogrammed to capture aerial images between the specified location boundaries. Moreover in some embodiments the set of aerial images may be aggregated to form a 3D display of the infrastructure item. For example the set of aerial images may be aggregated using LIDAR stereoscopy or photogrammetry techniques to create the 3D image.

At block the infrastructure evaluation module may determine the condition of the infrastructure item based on the aerial images. In some embodiments the aerial images which depict the infrastructure item may be made up of data points and a condition may be determined for each data point or alternatively for each set of data points. The condition may be determined by filtering out data points which do not depict the infrastructure item and comparing the remaining data points to data depicting a previous image of the infrastructure item taken while the infrastructure item was in good condition. Additionally the condition may be determined by comparing the remaining data points to data depicting a similar infrastructure item in good condition and identifying differences between the two.

Based on the condition of the infrastructure item a damage severity level may be determined block . For example a damage severity level score or a damage severity level category may be determined for each of the data points depicting the infrastructure item. The damage severity level score or category may be determined for a data point based on the determined condition of a portion of the infrastructure item depicted by the data point. A damage severity level indicator may then be assigned to the infrastructure item based on the determined damage severity level block . For example data points depicting a portion of an infrastructure item having light damage may be assigned a green color indicator. Moreover in some embodiments the damage severity level indicators may overlay the aerial images of the infrastructure item on a display for example on the client device block . In addition to placing the damage severity level indicators over the aerial images of the infrastructure item a cost estimate for repairing and or replacing the infrastructure item may be determined. For example the damage severity level for a particular portion of the infrastructure item may be compared with a set of rules which includes cost estimates based on the type of infrastructure item the quality of the infrastructure item the size of the portion of the infrastructure item and or the damage severity level. Cost estimates for portions of the infrastructure item may be aggregated and or combined to determine a total cost estimate for repairing the damage to the infrastructure item.

Furthermore as described above in some embodiments items of infrastructure may require further inspection for example when the damage severity level is light damage. When further inspection is required block the method steps to may be repeated and the infrastructure evaluation module may direct the UAV s MAV or satellite device to capture additional aerial images until further inspection is no longer necessary. In other embodiments the infrastructure evaluation module may direct a person such as an inspector to go to the site and manually inspect the infrastructure item.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of routines subroutines applications or instructions. These may constitute either software e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware. In hardware the routines etc. are tangible units capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description and the claims that follow should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

This detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment as describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. One could implement numerous alternate embodiments using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this application.

