---

title: Security and data privacy for lighting sensory networks
abstract: In various example embodiments, a system and method are provided for protection customer data collected at sensor nodes within a networked system. A key recovery module determines the encrypted sensor data in a request was encrypted with a certified public key associated with a first customer key-pair. The first customer key-pair represents a recovered private key. The key recovery module determines the private key associated with the first customer key-pair is encrypted with the private key associated with a second customer key-pair. The private key associated with the first customer key-pair is decrypted by using the private key associated with the second customer key-pair. The encrypted sensor data in the request is decrypted using the decrypted private key associated with the first customer key-pair.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582671&OS=09582671&RS=09582671
owner: Sensity Systems Inc.
number: 09582671
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150305
---
This application claims priority benefits of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 948 817 filed Mar. 6 2014 which is incorporated in its entirety by reference. This application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 024 561 entitled Networked Lighting Infrastructure for Sensing Applications filed Sep. 11 2013 and its related U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 699 968 of the same name filed Sep. 12 2012.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to security and data privacy in a networked environment and more particularly but not by way of limitation to protecting customer data collected by sensor networks.

Today sensor networks are being used in a wide range of application areas. For example data collected by sensor networks may be used for environmental monitoring security and surveillance logistics and transportation control and automation and traffic monitoring. Security and privacy is one of the major concerns when the sensor networks collect sensor data involving human participants. Adequate security measures may be implemented in a system that collects stores and processes the sensor data to preserve the privacy of the human participants and to prevent unauthorized access to the sensor data collected by the sensor network.

The headings provided herein are merely for convenience and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the terms used.

The description that follows includes systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments of the present invention. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail. Example embodiments described herein provide systems and methods for security and data privacy for sensor networks in communication with a service data platform.

In various embodiments public key cryptography implemented with a private key sharing scheme may also be used to secure customer data from unauthorized access by third parties. The customer data may represent sensor data collected by sensor nodes within a sensor network. Examples of sensor data include motion detection data ambient light sensor data audio data image data video data and vibration data. The customer data may contain sensitive identification information that requires protection to maintain the privacy of individuals represented by the customer data. The sensitive identification information may include personally identifiable information and customer identifiable information. Systems having access to sensitive identification information may be required to conform to various data privacy laws and regulations. A company or entity that owns or manages such a system may implement privacy guidelines to conform to data privacy laws regulations and best practices.

For example a data privacy guideline may include the following provisions data privacy is managed end to end data privacy is supported during data collection storage and display private data includes personally identifiable information and customer identifiable information audio related sensing complies with federal wiretapping laws all data accessed is password protected data is only stored when required personally identifiable information and customer identifiable information is transmitted when the relevant privacy guidelines are met transmitted personally identifiable information and the customer identifiable information is encrypted and the light infrastructure owners are required to post appropriate signs and get explicit written consent when required from individuals and entities. In some embodiments the privacy guidelines for ambient data are based on prevailing laws and regulations and are developed to benefit end users of the applications and services while protecting the privacy of individuals. Various guidelines may evolve based on the laws and user preferences as applications and services are developed and deployed.

In some embodiments sensor nodes within lighting sensor networks may be configured to obtain various sensor data such as video and audio data. For example video camera sensors coupled to or residing within sensor nodes within a parking garage or parking lot may capture video and audio data of cars moving about. The obtained sensor data may often contain identifying data of persons also referred to as sensitive identification information within the infrastructures such as motorists driving their cars within parking decks that include sensor nodes. For example video data may include faces or likenesses of people license plate numbers or other distinguishing information about their respective automobiles. The owners of lighting sensor networks who are collecting raw sensor data at the sensor nodes may have legal obligations or other obligations to protect the privacy of persons whose identity may be potentially discovered by accessing the sensor data collected or recorded by the sensor nodes within a lighting sensor network. Some examples of sensitive identification information that may require additional privacy measures may include face identification media access control MAC addresses on mobile phones and license plates of cars. To protect the privacy of such persons whose identity may be discovered by accessing the sensor data collected at the sensor nodes public key cryptography may be used to protect customer data from unwanted sharing or access within a networked environment. The public key cryptography may be implemented using a public key infrastructure PKI to create digital certificates which certifies public keys with digital signatures.

The networked environment may include a lighting sensor network that includes a sensor network in communication with a server system representing a sensor data storage and management platform also referred to as a service data platform via a network e.g. a wide area network WAN . This framework for collecting and processing sensor data supports end to end security and may be used to implement various privacy guidelines. The sensor network may be coupled to a lighting infrastructure or other infrastructure that is capable of providing the sensor nodes within the sensor network with mechanical support for mounting the sensor nodes and additional power and networking capabilities to the sensor nodes. In example embodiments some or all of the sensor nodes may be attached directly or indirectly to lighting fixtures within the lighting infrastructure.

Public key cryptography may be used to reduce or minimize security problems and threats by sending encrypted sensor data over the Internet or other networks and storing the sensor data in an encrypted form at the service data platform. Public key cryptography may also be used to allow or limit access to the sensor data which may contain sensitive identification information to only those parties who are authorized to have access to such data. In various embodiments public key cryptography may be used by the lighting sensor network to protect the customer data collected at the sensor nodes. For example the sensor data collected at the sensor nodes may be encrypted using a customer public key at the sensor nodes. The encrypted sensor data is transported to the service data platform and stored as encrypted sensor data until the customer decides to access the sensor data. The sensor data is decrypted using a customer private key sharing scheme in various embodiments. The public key cryptography allows the customer to manage and control the private key and therefore limit access to its sensor data to only authorized parties.

In example embodiments to protect the privacy of such persons represented within the sensor data and recordings by sensor nodes of the lighting sensor network computing devices associated with the lighting sensor network may generate data e.g. certificates shares keys etc. that only in combination may decrypt encrypted sensor data obtained by sensor nodes. In various embodiments three types of keys and associated certificates are used. The three types of keys and associated certificates may be referred as device server and customer keys and certificates. The device keys and device certificates are associated with the lighting nodes and possibly other devices within the lighting network . The server keys and server certificates are associated with the service data platform which represents a server system having multiple servers. The customer keys and customer certificates are associated with customers. The customers may be customers of the service data platform or service provider who may be the owners of the lighting network. The customers may also be customers of the owners of the lighting network. The lighting sensor network may rely on these three types of keys and certificates. The number of each of the types of keys and certificates depends on the number of devices within the lighting sensor network that is participating or implementing the public key cryptography scheme described in the various embodiments. The various keys certificates and shares associated with the various devices e.g. devices i.e. sensor nodes servers i.e. service data platform and customer devices will be discussed in more detail with .

In some embodiments the customer private key may be split into three shares a customer share a server share and a third party share e.g. trusted agency escrow company such that sensor data may only be decrypted using no less than two of the three shares. By using a private key sharing scheme outside parties hoping to gain access to encrypted data recorded by sensor nodes may not be able to decrypt the data and thus reveal sensitive identity information without the permission or authorization of customers or owners of the lighting sensor network or sensor nodes and the designated number of shares from the private key. In various embodiments customers may choose to provide the service data platform with an encrypted local share of their customer share in order to facilitate access to the encrypted sensor data stored by the service data platform by the customer upon their request. The combination of the server share the encrypted local share may be used to decrypt the encrypted sensor data. The encrypted local share may be password protected.

In various embodiments customers may be enabled to access the encrypted sensor data obtained by sensor nodes via a web interface using the customer share or encrypted local share of the customer share of the private key.

The various embodiments provide methods devices systems and non transitory process readable storage media for security and data privacy utilized within a lighting sensor network. Such networks are described within U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 948 817 filed Mar. 6 2014 entitled Security and Data Privacy for Lighting Sensory Network the contents of which are incorporated by reference herewith in its entirety and U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 024 561 entitled Networked Lighting Infrastructure for Sensing Applications filed Sep. 11 2013 and its related U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 699 968 of the same title filed Sep. 12 2012.

The NetSense lighting sensor network platform developed by Sensity Systems Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. provides an example of a lighting sensor network that may be used to implement various embodiments described. The NetSense framework enables deployment of a variety of sensors using a lighting infrastructure that allows applications to securely access sensor data information which may represent sensitive identification information. NetSense has been architected to support the end to end data security and evolving set of privacy guidelines. The key components of NetSense includes end point sensor data collection devices e.g. sensor nodes a server platform that processes and enables applications to securely access the sensor data e.g. service data platform and a user interface that displays the sensor data.

To ensure data security within the NetSense platform data may be encrypted for storage or before transmission. This ensures that even if the access to data is compromised encryption will make the data unusable. In various embodiments device level data e.g. data at the sensor nodes may be encrypted using public key cryptography.

The sensor network includes multiple spatially distributed sensor nodes used to monitor physical and environmental conditions such as temperature sound pressure light traffic vehicles and people and vibrations. The sensor nodes may include several components for example multiple sensors a radio transceiver with an internal antenna a microcontroller an electronic circuit for interfacing with sensors and a power supply. The sensor nodes may include other networking interfaces. The controller includes memory for storing the various certificates keys and shares locally at the sensor nodes . For example the Customer Certificate the Server Root Certificate the Device Certificate and the Device Private Key may be stored locally at the sensor nodes in the example embodiment shown in .

The sensor network usually monitors an area such as a customer site. For example the sensor nodes may be attached to lighting fixtures located at a customer site representing a lighting infrastructure. The lighting infrastructure or other types of infrastructures may be capable of providing power to the sensor nodes and mechanical or physical support for the sensor nodes. The infrastructure may also provide additional networking communication interfaces for the sensor network . The sensor nodes are deployed within the site to monitor various conditions events or phenomenon that provides insights to users of the lighting sensor network . In alternative embodiments only some of the lighting fixtures within a lighting infrastructure are attached directly or indirectly to sensor nodes .

The sensor nodes communicate over a network such as a wide area network WAN with the service data platform which may represent one or more application servers residing in a cloud computing environment. In many applications the sensor network communicates with a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN through a gateway. For example the gateway acts as a bridge between the WAN and the other network e.g. LAN which is not shown . The sensor data collected at the sensor nodes in the sensor network may be securely transported to a remote server system represented by the service data platform for storage and processing. This enables data to be stored and processed by devices with more resources for example in a remotely located server system residing in a cloud computing environment.

In various embodiments the service data platform may be owned and operated by an entity referred to as a service provider. The owner of the lighting infrastructure may be referred to as a customer of the service provider. In some examples the customer of the service provider may allow third parties to access to the sensor data collected at the sensor nodes . As mentioned above the sensor data collected at the sensor nodes may include sensitive identification information requiring appropriate security measures to be implemented by the lighting sensor network to maintain the confidentiality and privacy of the sensor data either raw sensor data event sensor data or processed sensor data.

As described above public key cryptography using key pairs may be used by the lighting sensor network to ensure there is no unauthorized access to the sensor data and the data is securely transported. Sensor data collected by the sensor nodes may be encrypted by the sensor nodes and then securely transported over the WAN to be stored by the service data platform . Secure connections between the sensor nodes and the service data platform may be established using the various digital certificates and private keys issued to the sensor nodes the servers and the customer devices.

The sensor data stored by the service data platform may be stored as encrypted sensor data until an authorized user requests access to the encrypted sensor data. Depending on the request from the authorized user to access the encrypted sensor data the encrypted sensor data may be decrypted by the service data platform in accordance with a private key sharing scheme or transported from the service data platform to be decrypted by another system or offline from the service data platform . The private key sharing scheme used for decrypting the encrypted sensor data will be described in further detail below.

The service data platform also provides both programmatic access thru API servers and web access thru web servers to data stored in the service data platform . Data may be stored in the service data platform in one more databases accessed through a database server. For example the service data platform may provide application programming interfaces APIs for third party applications to access sensor data stored in the service data platform . In another example the service data platform may also provide access to the sensor data via web servers.

The service data platform may represent a platform for managing sensor data that includes database services for customers. Developers of third party application may access the sensor data stored in the database and build their own applications utilizing the sensor data. Other online data services may also be provided by the service data platform for example analyzing and processing the sensor data which are accessible to authorized users of the service data platform . The service data platform may include APIs and interfaces for third party application developers a middleware containing the business logic needed for managing and processing the sensor data a storage model suitable for the efficient storage and retrieval of large volumes of the sensor data and appropriate security measures that are available to customers for protecting unauthorized access to their sensor data.

The communications module may be used by the service data platform to communicate with the PKI the certificate authority the sensor network the customer device and the trusted third party device not shown via the WAN .

In example embodiments the key distribution module alone or in combination with the communication module may be used to distribute various keys certificates and shares to the various devices within the lighting sensor network or devices in communication with the lighting sensor network e.g. the customer device or the trusted third party device not shown .

The key sharing module is described below in conjunction with . In various embodiments the key sharing module may be used to create the shares of the private key and also to reconstruct the private key using a subset of the shares required to implement the private key sharing scheme. The key recovery module is described below in conjunction with .

The key pair generating module provides functionality to generate a key pair using various public key cryptography algorithms. The PKI is used to create the digital certificates in example embodiments. In some embodiments after a key pair is generated by the key pair generating module the communications module of the service data platform sends the public key portion of a key pair to the PKI to be certified with the digital signature of the PKI . The service data platform keeps the private keys used to decrypt data secret and does not send it to the PKI . In various embodiments the certificate authority stores the root private keys for the devices servers and customers. The root private keys are difficult to revoke and they are kept very secure by the service data platform .

The PKI creates a root certificate and other associated certificates for the various computing devices within the networked environment. For the example the PKI may create a customer root certificate and one or more customer certificates associated with a customer key pair a server root certificate and one or more server certificates associated with a server key pair and a device root certificate and one or more device certificates associated with a device key pair.

Sensitive identification information e.g. sensor data collected at the sensor nodes may be exchanged over the Internet by relying on the PKI for security. The PKI may include hardware and software that may be used to implement policies and standards related to keys and digital certificates. The PKI may include the following components 

In alternative embodiments the key pair may be generated by a customer and who then obtains the certificates from the PKI before distributing the various digital certificates and keys to the various computing devices within a networked environment.

A root certificate may be the base to issue multiple intermediate certificates. A root certificate is part of a PKI scheme. The root certificate may be based on the ITU T X. 509 standard for public key infrastructure PKI and Privilege Management Infrastructure PMI which often includes a digital signature from a certificate authority. The digital certificates are verified using a chain of trust. The trust anchor for the digital certificate is the root certificate authority.

As indicated above the certificate authority within the PKI shown in issues the digital certificates associated with key pairs. The digital certificate contains the public key and the identity of the owner of the key pair. For example the owner may be the customer for a customer key pair. The digital certificate provides a confirmation of validation by the certificate authority that the customer public key contained in the digital certificate belongs to the party e.g. customer noted in the digital certificate.

Once the PKI creates the digital certificates the PKI distributes the digital certificates to the service data platform . In example embodiments digital certificates associated with a customer key pair which contains the public key and identity of the owner are distributed to the sensor nodes within the lighting network . The Customer Certificates represent certified public keys owned by the customer. Once the sensor nodes have access to the certified public key the sensor nodes may encrypt the sensor data collected at the sensor nodes and other data available at the sensor nodes . A secure connection may be established between the sensor nodes within the sensor network and the service data platform to transport the encrypted sensor data. The secure connection may be established by one or more key pairs associated with the sensor nodes and the data service platform .

In various examples the sensor nodes may represent client devices that use the certificates to verify the signature on the certificates as part of the verification before establishing a secure connection between the lighting network and the service data platform . A sensor node may attempt to establish a connection with the service data platform and the service data platform and sensor node mutually authenticate each other. The service data platform may present its Server Certificate to the sensor node . The sensor node uses a Server Root Certificate stored locally at the sensor node to verify the signature on the Server Certificate is traceable back to the Server Root Certificate and to authenticate the service data platform . The sensor node sends the Device Certificate to the service data platform . The service data platform uses the Device Root Certificate stored locally at the service data platform to authenticate that the sensor node . The service data platform is able to trace the Device Certificate back to the Root Device Certificate . The digital certificates certify the ownership of a public key by the named subject of the certificate. The digital certificate allows others to rely upon signatures or assertions made by the private key that corresponds to the certified public key.

In example embodiments the matching customer private key used for decrypting the encrypted sensor data is not made available publicly but is kept secret by the owner or customer who generated the key pair. In some embodiments only participants in the private sharing scheme may have access to a share of the customer private key. In example embodiments the service data platform manages the customer private key for the customer by using a secret sharing algorithm or scheme. In various embodiments the customer private key also referred to a secret is distributed among a group of participants each of whom is allocated a share of the secret. In some embodiments the key distribution module shown in is responsible for distributing the shares of the secret to various devices or participants in the secret sharing scheme. The secret or customer private key can be reconstructed when a sufficient number of shares are combined together. The key sharing module shown in may be used to create the shares by using the secret sharing algorithm and may also be used to reconstruct the private key by combining multiple shares of the private key as specified by the secret sharing scheme being used. None of the individual shares can decrypt the encrypted data on its own. In various embodiments the customer private key is destroyed or disposed of once the shares are created from the private key.

In the example embodiment shown in the customer private key was split into three shares e.g. the first share the second share and the third share prior to being destroyed or otherwise disposed of. The second share referred to as represents customer share stored by a server on the service data platform and the second share referred to as represents the customer share that is returned to the customer. Any combination of two of the three shares or and is sufficient to decrypt the encrypted to sensor data stored in the service data platform in accordance with the private key sharing scheme. When the key pair generating module shown in generates the three shares and of the customer private key each of the three shares contains at least two thirds of the customer private key so that a combination of two of the shares and may be used to reconstruct the customer private key. In alternative embodiments the private sharing scheme may use more than three shares with each share including at least a portion of the customer private key necessary to reconstruct the customer private key with the designated number of shares specified in the private key sharing scheme.

In one example the first share and the second share which are both stored on the service data platform and may be used to decrypt the encrypted sensor data when the service data platform receives a request from an authorized user. The authorized user may log into the service data platform and provide the password or passcode for the second share prior to generating a request to access the encrypted sensor data. For example the authorized user may use the customer device to log onto the service data platform . In alternative embodiments a combination of the second share and the third share may be used to decrypt the encrypted sensor data. In further embodiments the first share and the third share may be used to decrypt the encrypted sensor data.

In an example the customer through the customer device may request the encrypted sensor data be transmitted over the WAN to the trusted third party device or the customer device . Once the encrypted sensor data is received by the trusted third party device or the customer device the encrypted sensor data may be decrypted by the combination of the second share and the third share . In certain situations where the sensor data may contain sensitive identification information that the customer may not want to share with the service data platform owner or administrator the customer may decide to transport the encrypted sensor data off the service data platform before decrypting the encrypted sensor data. In other words the sensor data is decrypted offline from the service data platform .

In another example the trusted third party device may be an escrow company who holds the third share in escrow. In the event that the second share or is lost damaged or otherwise inaccessible the third share may be securely sent to the service data platform and used to decrypt the encrypted sensor data stored on the service data platform . The third share may also be password encrypted for additional security.

In other embodiments the customer may decide to manage access to the private key itself such that the service data platform may not decrypt any of the encrypted sensor data collected and stored on the service data platform. Request for key pairs and distribution of the key pairs may be handled by the customer on a device separate from the service data platform . Once the customer is issued key pairs the customer public keys may be provided to the service data platform for distribution by the service data platform to the sensor nodes . However the customer private key may not be provided to the service data platform and the private key sharing scheme may be managed by the customer or another party selected by the customer. In this scenario the service data platform primarily provides database services to store the encrypted sensor data.

In the example embodiment shown in the customer private key is split or divided into three shares. The first share may be referred to as the server share the second share and may be referred to as the customer share and the third share may be referred to as the trusted third party share. Once the three shares are created the customer private key may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of. In example embodiments the service data platform provides security functionality to split the private key into three shares and then dispose of the customer private key once the three shares are created. In some embodiments the key pair generating module shown in may be used to split the private key into multiple shares. In this example any two of the three shares combined together is sufficient to decrypt the encrypted sensor data. In various alternative embodiments the private key sharing scheme may split the private keys into any number of shares e.g. four shares five shares etc. where a subset of the number of shares is required to be combined to decrypt the encrypted sensor data.

Referring to the first share representing the server share may be stored in plain text in a database in the service data platform . The second share represents a password encrypted local customer share may also be stored in a database in the service data platform . The second share requires a customer password before the encrypted sensor data can be decrypted. In some embodiments the second share which may or may not be encrypted is returned to the customer. The customer may use the customer share in combination with the third share to decrypt the encrypted sensor data offline from the service data platform .

A trusted third party may represent any entity selected by the customer who represents a trusted party. For example the trusted third party may be an escrow company. The trusted third party share referred to as the third share may be securely transferred to the trusted third party for safe keeping in the event the second shares and are lost or for use in offline decrypting in combination with the second share

By using the PKI users accessing the lighting sensor network and computers or computing devices within the lighting sensor network may both securely exchange data over networks such as the Internet and verify the identity of the other party. For example sensor data generated at the sensor nodes may be encrypted and securely transported over a network to the service data platform . The encrypted sensor data may be stored at the service data platform and decrypted by using a private key sharing scheme. The service data platform may verify that that the encrypted sensor data was provided by customer devices e.g. sensor nodes owned by the customer .

As described above the customer certified public key represented by the Customer Certificate may be widely distributed to the various sensor nodes . In some embodiments the key distribution module may distribute the Customer Certificates . On the other hand the customer private key is made available only to the participants of the private key sharing scheme. More specifically the sensor nodes may collect raw sensor data and other data available at the sensor nodes which is encrypted before being transported over a network e.g. WAN to the service data platform for storage and in some cases for further processing.

The service data platform may represent remote servers located in a cloud computing environment. The encrypted sensor data may be stored in its encrypted form until a request to access the encrypted sensor data is received by the service data platform from an authorized user. The encrypted data may be decrypted using two of the three shares shown in in example embodiments. In various embodiments one or more of the shares of the customer private key may request a passphrase or passcode before decrypting. In some embodiments a passphrase may be supplied manually. In other embodiments a user may be allowed to store the passphrase locally so that messages can be decrypted automatically. As described above the second share may require a passphrase either manual or automatically.

In various embodiments responsibility for the customer private key is shared between multiple parties such as the administrator or owner of the service data platform the customer and a trusted third party. A sharing technique may be implemented using cryptographic key sharing to split the key into multiple parts some of which can be used together to recover reconstruct or replace the entire customer private key. The service data platform provides a server to hold on to the password encrypted local customer share. In some examples the service data platform is not able to decrypt the local share unless the customer provides the password which may need to be provided at least for each login session to the server.

The Server Root Certificate and Server Root Private Key represent the certificate and key pair that is used to sign all Server Certificates . The Server Root Certificate is distributed to all devices e.g. sensor nodes that connect to a server in the service data platform . illustrates the Server Root Certificate stored locally at the sensor nodes . The Server Root Private Key must be kept very secure as it is difficult to revoke. In some embodiments the Server Root Private Key is kept in a secure location that is only known to the certificate authority . The Server Root Private Key is only used for signing the Server Certificates . The Server Private Key corresponds to a Server Certificate and is different from the Server Root Private Key .

The Server Certificate and Server Private Key represent the certificate and key pair used by the server in the service data platform for all device connections to that server. The Server Certificates are signed by the Server Root Private Key . illustrates the Server Certificate and the Server Private Key stored locally at the service data platform .

The Device Root Certificate and Device Root Private Key represent the certificate and key pair used to sign all Device Certificates . The Device Root Certificate is distributed to all servers within the service data platform to validate the identity of devices e.g. sensor nodes . The Device Root Private Key must be kept very secure as it is difficult to revoke. In some embodiments the Device Root Private Key is kept in a secure location that is only known to the certificate authority . The Device Root Private Key is only used for signing the Device Certificates . The Device Private Key corresponds to a Device Certificate and is different from the Device Root Private Key .

The Device Certificate and Device Private Key represent the certificate and key pair that gets assigned to any node service bridge and any other wireless station or client of a server in the service data platform . The Device Certificates are signed by the Device Root Private Key .

The Customer Root Certificate and Customer Root Private Key represent the certificate and key pair used to sign all Customer Root Certificates . The Customer Root Certificate is distributed to servers within the service data platform and may be used to validate the identity of customers when they log in. The Customer Root Private Key must be kept very secure as it is difficult to revoke. In some embodiments the Customer Root Private Key is kept in a secure location that is only known to the certificate authority . The Customer Root Private Key is only used for signing the Customer Certificates . The customer private key corresponds to a Customer Certificate and is different from the Customer Root Private Key . The customer private key is reconstructed using a private key sharing algorithm.

The Customer Certificate and customer private key represent the key pair that is used for encrypting all customer identifiable information and the person identifiable information at the sensor node . The customer private key is under the control of the customer and is signed by the server. The Customer Certificate is distributed to the devices owned by the customer e.g. the sensor nodes for encryption of data. Once the data is encrypted by those devices it cannot be decrypted because those devices never possess the corresponding customer private key.

As shown in the various entities in the lighting sensor network and in communication with the lighting sensor network each hold a subset of the keys and secrets. The key distribution module is responsible for distributing the various keys certificates and shares to the various devices shown in in example embodiments.

In example embodiments the sensor nodes or devices store the following certificates and keys locally the Device Certificate and the Device Private Key the Server Root Certificate and the Customer Certificate .

In example embodiments the service data platform or server stores the following certificates and keys locally the Server Certificate and the Server Private Key the Customer Root Certificate the Device Root Certificate the server customer key share e.g. the first share and the encrypted local customer key share e.g. the second share .

In example embodiments the customer device stores the following certificates and keys locally the Device Root Certificate the customer private key or at least the customer key share represented by the second share

In further embodiments the certificate authority stores locally the root private keys for the devices servers and customers represented by the Device Root Private Key the Server Root Private Key and the Customer Root Private Key respectively.

On the other hand illustrates a block diagram of the lighting sensor network with a customer device requesting access over paths and to sensor data stored in the service data platform as old sensor data that was encrypted by a Customer Certificate from first customer key pair that is associated with a recovered customer private key from the first customer key pair. The recovered customer private key from the first customer key pair has been encrypted by the service data platform and then stored on the service data platform such that the customer may still access sensor data encrypted using the customer certificate associated with the first customer key pair. In example embodiments one or more databases stores the encrypted data with the Customer Certificate from the first customer key pair encrypted data with the Customer Certificate from the second customer key pair and encrypted first customer private key .

The process for recovering a customer private key from the first customer key pair and then encrypting the recovered customer private key from the first customer key pair is described in further detail below in conjunction with . In example embodiments the key recovery module provides functionality to recover private keys in accordance with the method shown in . In this scenario when the private key for the first customer key pair represents a recovered private key a new private key associated with a second customer key pair is generated. In various embodiments new data collected by the senor nodes are then encrypted using the Customer Certificate associated with the second customer key pair and then decrypted using the private key sharing scheme associated with the second customer key pair. The recovered private key from the first customer key pair is encrypted by the service data platform . The recovered private key from the first customer key pair is decrypted by the service data platform before it can be used to decrypt the encrypted old sensor data. In example embodiments the private key sharing e.g. shares and associated with the second customer key pair may be used to decrypt the recovered private key from the first customer key pair which was encrypted by the Customer Root Certificate associated with the second customer key pair. Once the old sensor data has been decrypted it may be accessed by the customer device using a second customer key pair according to an example embodiment. In other words the customer device requests access to sensor data that was encrypted with an old customer key pair e.g. the first customer key pair and a new customer key pair e.g. the second customer key pair is currently being used by the lighting sensor network .

In example embodiments the methods shown in and the operations described in the methods may be implemented using one or more of the modules and alone or in combination with other modules included in the security system shown in . Additional modules which are not shown in may also be used. For example an encryption module is not shown and a decryption module is not shown but are included within the security system .

In one embodiment the service data platform generates the customer key pair as shown by operation . In some embodiments the service data platform synthesizes a new key pair and in other embodiments the customer generates the customer key pair and provides the customer public key and possibly the customer private share e.g. first share to the service data platform . In further embodiments the customer private key may be withheld by the customer in which case the service data platform may not be able to directly decrypt the customer s data.

According to some embodiments once the key pair is generated by the service data platform the service data platform sends a request to the certificate authority as shown by operation . In various embodiments the certificate authority is part of the PKI . The request at operation may be to request the certificate authority to sign the customer pubic key. At operation the certificate authorize returns the signature of the certificate authority as part of digital certificate to the service data platform .

The signed digital certificate represents a certified customer public key. The certificate authority may provide Customer Certificates which are stored locally at the sensor nodes and a Customer Root Certificate which is stored at the service data platform. The Customer Certificates may be assigned to or distributed to the various sensor nodes or other devices within the sensor network . The Customer Certificate is used by the sensor nodes to encrypt sensor data or other data available to the sensor nodes

In other embodiments the service data platform may send a request on behalf of the customer to the certificate authority to issue a key pair and associated digital certificates such as the Customer Certificate . The certificate authority then creates the key pair and associated digital certificates and sends them back to the service data platform .

Once the service data platform receives signed Customer Certificates the service data platform distributes the Customer Certificates representing the certified public keys from the customer key pairs to the customer devices e.g. the sensor nodes at operation . The sensor nodes may represent the devices owned by the customer . The public key is included within the Customer Certificate in some embodiments. In some embodiments the signed Customer Certificate is then returned to the customer who then distributes it to the devices that the customer owns. In some embodiments if the customer has chosen to withhold the private key no further action is taken.

The reference numerals and represent operations performed by the service data platform . For embodiments where the service data platform is managing the private key for the customer the private key is split into multiple shares e.g. three shares by the service data platform .

At operation the service data platform splits the private key into multiple shares using a private or secret sharing algorithm. At operation the service data platform stores the server share on the service data platform . In example embodiments the server share is stored in plain text in a database in the service data platform .

At operation the service data platform then transfers the third party share to the trusted third party . For example the third party share is securely transferred to the trusted third party device for safe keeping or for use in offline decryption by the customer .

At operation the service data platform sends a request for a password or passcode to the customer that can be used to encrypt the customer share. The passcode may be received from the customer at operation . For example the customer is prompted for a password to encrypt the customer share.

At operation the service data platform encrypts the customer share of the private key and stores the password encrypted customer share of the private key in one of the database s in the service data platform .

The service data platform may then return the customer share at operation to the customer. The customer share may be encrypted or not encrypted. The customer may use the customer share received if the password encrypted customer share is lost or may be used for encryption of the decrypted sensor data accessed from the service data platform in combination with the trusted third party share for example.

In example embodiments the operation and may be performed by the communications module . In other embodiments operations and may be performed by the key distribution module . In further embodiments the operation may be performed by the key pair generation module . In some embodiments the operations and may be performed by the key sharing module . The modules and are shown in as part of the security system .

In an example embodiment a method is described for protecting data available to sensor nodes within a sensor network . The method includes generating a key pair associated with a customer including a public encryption key and a private decryption key requesting certification of the public encryption key receiving a certificate representing a certified public encryption key distributing the certificate to the sensor nodes within the sensor network associated with the customer to enable the sensor nodes to encrypt sensor data available at the sensor nodes with the certificate splitting the private decryption key into multiple shares such that a designated subset of the multiple shares may be used in combination to enable a service data platform to decrypt the encrypted sensor data storing a first share of the multiple shares at the service data platform storing a password encrypted local share of a second share of the multiple shares at the service data platform and transmitting a third share of the multiple shares to a third party device e.g. the trusted third party device for storage. In some embodiments requesting certification of the public encryption key includes requesting a certificate authority to generate Customer Certificates associated with the key pair.

In further embodiments the method for protecting data available to sensor nodes within a sensor network includes receiving a request associated with the customer to generate the key pair. The key pair represents a customer key pair. In further embodiments the method for protecting data available to sensor nodes within a sensor network includes transmitting the second share of the multiple shares to a customer device . In another embodiment the method for protecting data available to sensor nodes within a sensor network includes destroying the private decryption key after splitting the private decryption key into multiple shares.

Various other security algorithms or schemes may be implemented by the service data platform to provide added security to the sensor data collected at the sensor nodes . As indicated above the sensitive identification data may be collected by at the sensor nodes which may include personally identifiable information and customer identifiable information. For example camera microphone or other data may be collected at the sensor nodes .

For some embodiments the sensor nodes may be bucket or group the sensor data into hourly or daily digests to remove time sensitivity. This protects against inferring content of the sensor data by monitoring the frequency of communications between the sensor nodes and the service data platform .

In other embodiments the sensor nodes may pad or adjust the size of the sensor data to a fixed size to remove size sensitivity. This protects against inferring content of the data by monitoring the quantity of data sent to the server. The security algorithms or schemes may be used alone or together with various embodiments of the public key cryptography described in this specification. The sensor data collected at the sensor nodes may be sent to the service data platform over a secure connection. The service data platform stores the sensor data where it can be accessed by the customer in the future.

In further embodiments a data package is encrypted using the Customer Certificate . The data package may represent sensor data collected at the sensor nodes that is to be transmitted to the service data platform over a network e.g. WAN . In some embodiments the encrypted data packet is combined with unencrypted metadata in a multipart payload which is then signed using the Device Private Key . The signed multipart payload may be sent to the service data platform over a secure connection. In further embodiments the service data platform sores the encrypted data package in one or more of database s indexed by the unencrypted metadata keys so that the encrypted data package can be retrieved by the customer in the future. The service data platform may use a cryptographic hash of the signed payload as a content addressable file key.

At operation the customer sends a request to access the encrypted sensor data stored at the service data platform . In various embodiments the customer logs into the service data platform using its credentials e.g. username and password . The customer may also request to view the sensor data that is encrypted using the customer certificate.

At operation the service data platform fetches the password protected encrypted local customer share and the server share. In some embodiments the service data platform obtains the encryption information from its database e.g. database including information on what Customer Certificate was used to encrypt the sensor data the server share and the encrypted local share of the customer share.

At operation the service data platform sends a request for the encrypted local customer share password to the customer . At operation the service data platform receives the password from the customer .

The service data platform obtains the password for the encrypted local share from the customer and decrypts the encrypted local customer share if the correct password is provided.

At operation the service data platform reconstructs the customer private key once the password is received. For example where the private key sharing scheme uses three shares each share includes at least two thirds of the private key so the private key can be reconstructed with only two shares. Together the decrypted local customer share and the server share are used to decrypt the encrypted sensor data stored at the service data platform . The service data platform retrieves the encrypted sensor data and then decrypts it at operation .

At operation the service data platform provides a response that returns the decrypted sensor data to the customer . In some embodiments the decrypted sensor data is transmitted to the customer s browser over a secure connection and rendered to the screen by the browser.

In example embodiments operations and are performed by the communication module . In various embodiments operations and are performed by the key sharing module . In another embodiment the operation may be performed by the security system . In some embodiments the operation may be performed by a decryption module not shown . The modules are shown in .

In an example embodiment a method of protecting customer data in a networked system e.g. the lighting sensor network includes collecting sensor data available at sensor nodes within a sensor network in communication with a service data platform over a network e.g. WAN encrypting the sensor data using a certified public key associated with a customer key pair the sensor data representing the customer data associated with sensitive identification information cryptographically signing the sensor data with a device private key transporting the encrypted sensor data to the service data platform for storage and decrypting at the service data platform the encrypted sensor data using a private key sharing scheme that reconstructs the private key associated with the customer key pair using a first share and a password encrypted second share the first share assigned to the service data platform and the password encrypted second share assigned to a customer of the customer key pair.

In further embodiments the method of protecting customer data in a networked system e.g. the lighting sensor network includes receiving a request associated with an authorized user of the customer of the service data platform to access the encrypted sensor data stored by the service data platform receiving a password associated with password encrypted second share and decrypting the password encrypted second share

In other example embodiments the method of protecting customer data in a networked system e.g. the lighting sensor network includes combining the first share and the decrypted password encrypted second share to reconstruct the private key associated with the customer key pair.

In various embodiments the sensitive identification information represents at one of customer identification information and personally identification information. In other embodiments the private key sharing scheme includes at least three shares of the private key where at least two of the at least three shares may be used to reconstruct the private key associated with the customer key pair for decrypting the encrypted sensor data.

In some embodiments the customer chooses not to share their private key with the service data platform to prevent the service data platform from decrypting the encrypted sensor data stored at the service data platform . However the service data platform may be able to deliver the encrypted sensor data to the customer who can then decrypt the data offline. A method for decrypting sensor data offline from the service data platform is described below.

The method for decrypting sensor data offline from the service data platform may start with the customer who logs into the service data platform using its log in credentials such as user name and password. The customer then send a request to the service data platform to access or retrieve the encrypted sensor data stored at the service data platform . The encrypted sensor data may be transported as a data package. The encrypted sensor data may be downloaded from the service data platform by the customer . The customer may then obtain the Device Root Certificate from the service data platform . With the Device Root Certificate provided by the service data platform the customer is able to verify the signatures on the on the data package to ensure that the encrypted sensor data included in the data package is from the one or more of the customer s devices e.g. sensor nodes . The customer then decrypts sensor data using the customer s private key. If a private or secret sharing scheme is used then the data package may be decrypted by a designated number of shares specified by the secret sharing scheme. The customer may then view the decrypted sensor data using the customer s own tools and software applications.

In various embodiments the key pair generating module is used to generate the second customer key pair and the key recover module is used to recover the private key associated with the first customer key pair when the customer s share is lost or no longer available to reconstruct the customer private key associated with the first customer key share. In further embodiments the key sharing module splits a customer private key into multiple shares as required by the particular private key sharing scheme being implemented. The key pair generating module the key recovery module and the key sharing module are shown in .

According to the customer has used key sharing to protect itself against loss of the customer s share or some other share of the private key issued to the customer e.g. the second shares and . For example the customer share and the password for the encrypted local share of the customer s share have been lost by the customer . The service data platform may be requested to recover the lost data associated with the customer s share of the private key associated with the first customer key pair with the help of the trusted third party.

At operation the customer authorizes the trusted third party device to release the third party share to the service data platform . A response may be provided by the trusted third party device at operation that acknowledges this request.

At operation the customer requests that the service data platform recover the lost key or key share e.g. shares or . At operation the service data platform requests the third party share referred to as the third share from the trusted third party . At operation third share is provided to the service data platform by the trusted third party . At operation the service data platform recovers the customer private key associated with a first customer key pair by combining the third share and the server share represented by the first share

In various embodiments the private key associated with the first customer key pair is reconstructed using two of the three shares from the private key sharing scheme. Each of the shares includes at least two thirds of the customer private key from the first customer key pair.

At operation the customer creates a new customer certificate and customer private key following the procedure or method outlined in for generating a new key pair. This procedure shown in may be referred to as the customer initiation procedure. In example embodiments the Customer Certificate and the customer private key are associated with a second customer key pair referred to as the new key pair. The private key sharing scheme for example as described in is used to split the customer private key associated with the second customer key pair into multiple shares. In some embodiments an operation may be used to provide the new private key associated with the second customer key pair to the customer . The shares of the new customer private key may be distributed to the service data platform the sensor nodes and the customer device as shown in or .

At operation the service data platform encrypts the recovered customer private key associated with the second customer key pair with the new Customer Certificate and signs it with the Server Private Key The encrypted recovered private key associated with first customer key pair is stored in the database . In example embodiments when the old customer private key is needed the new customer private key is needed to decrypt it. The new customer private key is reconstructed using the private sharing described above.

Once the second customer key pair is generated the sensor nodes may encrypt sensor data using the Customer Certificate associated with the second customer key pair. Such data can then be decrypted using the private key sharing scheme associated with the second customer key pair. The sensor nodes may also continue to encrypt sensor data using the Customer Certificate associated with the first customer key pair. The recovered private key associated with the first customer key pair is encrypted by the service data platform and stored in one of its databases to enable the customer to decrypt data encrypted with the Customer Certificate associated with the first customer key pair.

The sensor nodes can continue to encrypt sensor data using the Customer Certificate from the first customer key pair until the service data platform distributes the Customer Certificate from the second customer key pair to the sensor nodes .

At operation the customer requests encrypted data stored on the service data platform . As shown in the service data platform may stores both data encrypted with the Customer Certificate from the first customer key pair and data encrypted with the Customer Certificate from the second customer key pair . The data encrypted with the Customer Certificate from the first customer key pair uses to the old or recovered key. The old or recovered key is used to decrypt the old data encrypted with the Customer Certificate associated with the first customer key pair

At operation the service data platform checks to see if the sensor data was encrypted with a previously recovered key. If so the service data platform prompts for the password of the new password encrypted local share of the customer share. Once the password for the second share is received the service data platform may decrypt the old private key.

At operation the service data platform decrypts the old private key which may be accessed from a database . The recovered private key associated with the first customer key pair may be decrypted using the private key associated with the second customer key pair. For example the private key associated with the second customer key pair may be reconstructed using the first share and the second share or associated with the second private key pair.

In various embodiments there may be multiple key recoveries. When this occurs the service data platform follows the chain of the older recoveries until a live key is found.

At operation the decrypted sensor data may be displayed to a customer or other authorized user of the customer.

In example embodiments the operations and may be performed by the communications module . In other embodiments the operations and and may be performed by the key recovery module . In some embodiments the operation may be performed by the key pair generation module . The operation may be performed by the encryption module not shown . The operation may be performed by the decryption module not shown . The modules and are shown in .

In example embodiment method of protecting customer data in a networked system includes receiving a request to access encrypted sensor data stored at a service data platform determining the encrypted sensor data in the request was encrypted with a certified public key associated with a first customer key pair the first customer key pair representing a recovered private key determining the private key associated with the first customer key pair is encrypted with the private key associated with a second customer key pair decrypting the private key associated with the first customer key pair by using the private key associated with the second customer key pair and decrypting the encrypted sensor data in the request using the decrypted private key associated with the first customer key pair. In some embodiments the networked system includes a sensor network . The sensor network represents at least one of a Wi Fi wireless network or an ad hoc wireless network.

In other embodiments the method of protecting customer data in a networked system includes collecting sensor data available at sensor nodes within a sensor network in communication with the service data platform over a network e.g. WAN encrypting the sensor data using the certified public key associated with the first customer key pair the sensor data representing the customer data associated with sensitive identification information cryptographically signing the sensor data using a device private key associated with the first customer key pair and transporting the encrypted sensor data to the service data platform for storage.

In further embodiments the method of protecting customer data in a networked system includes retrieving a third party share associated with the first customer key pair authorized by the customer to provide to the service data platform combining the third party share e.g. third share associated with the first customer key pair with a server share e.g. first share assigned to the service data platform and recovering the private key associated with the first customer key pair using the server share e.g. first share and the trusted third party share e.g. third share .

In another embodiment the method of protecting customer data in a networked system includes encrypting the recovered private key associated with the first customer key pair and storing the encrypted private key associated with the first customer key pair at the service data platform .

In another example embodiment the method of protecting customer data in a networked system includes requesting a password for a password decrypted customer share e.g. the second share of the private key associated with the second customer key pair to reconstruct the private key associated with the second customer key pair receiving the password and decrypting the password decrypted customer share e.g. the second share associated with the second customer key pair combining a server share e.g. the first share and the decrypting password encrypted customer share e.g. the second share associated with the second customer key pair and reconstructing the private key associated with the second customer key pair.

In a further embodiment the method of protecting customer data in a networked system includes encrypting the private key associated with the first customer key pair by using a certified public key associated with the second customer key pair and storing the encrypted private key associated with the first customer key pair.

Other examples of sensors that may be used in various embodiments in sensor nodes include biometric sensors motion sensors environmental sensors and position sensors. For example the biometric sensors may include components to detect expressions e.g. hand expressions facial expressions vocal expressions body gestures or eye tracking measure bio signals e.g. blood pressure heart rate body temperature perspiration or brain waves identify a person e.g. voice identification retinal identification facial identification fingerprint identification or electroencephalogram based identification and the like. Examples of motions sensors may include motion components such as acceleration sensor components e.g. accelerometer gravitation sensor components rotation sensor components e.g. gyroscope and so forth. Various environmental sensors may be used which include environmental components such as illumination sensor components e.g. photometer temperature sensor components e.g. one or more thermometer that detect ambient temperature humidity sensor components pressure sensor components e.g. barometer acoustic sensor components e.g. one or more microphones that detect background noise proximity sensor components e.g. infrared sensors that detect nearby objects gas sensors e.g. gas detection sensors to detection concentrations of hazardous gases for safety or to measure pollutants in the atmosphere or other components that may provide indications measurements or signals corresponding to a surrounding physical environment. Various positions sensors may include position components such as location sensor components e.g. a Global Position System GPS receiver component altitude sensor components e.g. altimeters or barometers that detect air pressure from which altitude may be derived orientation sensor components e.g. magnetometers and the like.

Additionally certain embodiments described herein may be implemented as logic or a number of modules engines components or mechanisms. A module engine logic component or mechanism collectively referred to as a module may be a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and configured or arranged in a certain manner. In certain example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more components of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion or firmware note that software and firmware can generally be used interchangeably herein as is known by a skilled artisan as a module that operates to perform certain operations described herein.

In various embodiments a module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or array to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software or firmware to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that a decision to implement a module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by for example cost time energy usage and package size considerations.

Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which modules or components are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the modules or components need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the modules or components comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure the processor to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time.

Modules can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiples of such modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the modules. In embodiments in which multiple modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple modules have access. For example one module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

With reference to an example embodiment extends to a machine in the example form of a computer system within which instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative example embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or n tier network as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment or in a virtualized cloud computing environment. The machine may be a personal computer PC wearable computing device a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router a switch or bridge sensor node or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . In example embodiments the computer system also includes one or more of an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software instructions embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of embodiments of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable storage media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present invention. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present invention as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

