---

title: Method of displaying health information and electronic device for providing same
abstract: Disclosed is a method of displaying health information by an electronic device. The method includes: activating an application providing at least one piece of health-related information; identifying a user account pre-stored in the application and receiving health state measurement data of the user account; receiving pieces of health state measurement data of similar group accounts from a host device; determining an account with which to be compared among the similar group accounts based on a predetermined reference and identifying health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared; and displaying the health state measurement data of the user account and the health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576105&OS=09576105&RS=09576105
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09576105
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150227
---
The present application is related to and claims priority from and the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0024623 filed on Feb. 28 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

The present application relates generally to a method of displaying health information and an electronic device for providing the same and more particularly to a method of displaying health information that provides a user interface related to health and an electronic device providing the same.

As people increasingly become interested in health demand for identifying a health state using various health measurement devices has recently increased. Accordingly various devices for measuring health have appeared. For example the devices for measuring health include a blood pressure measuring device a pulse measuring device a momentum measuring device a skin current measuring device and a body temperature measuring device and a health measuring device are installed and used in a portable terminal.

People also use a health application to check their own health states. However when the user uses a health application the health application displays only data corresponding to basic health information of the user and thus the user cannot help but use delayed feedback to deal with changes in the health measurement data. Further when the user uses the health application the compatibility with a device for measuring health is low and accordingly the user receives delayed feedback in real time. In addition it is difficult to compare health data of the user with health data of another user and thus also difficult to recognize an objective average health state index of users in a group.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide a method of displaying health information and an electronic device for providing the same to solve the above problems.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of displaying health information by an electronic device is provided. The method includes activating an application providing at least one piece of health related information identifying a user account pre stored in the application and receiving health state measurement data of the user account receiving pieces of health state measurement data of similar group accounts from a host device determining an account with which to be compared among the similar group accounts based on a predetermined reference and identifying health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared and displaying the health state measurement data of the user account and the health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user can identify a more specific health state through displayed body information and health state measurement information of the user.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user can identify a health rank of the user in all groups by comparing a user health state with meaningful group health states.

In addition according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user can more conveniently and enjoyably analyze the health state through a user interface for comparing and analyzing health states of the user and other users.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

It will be understood that the expressions comprises and may comprise is used to specify presence of disclosed function operation component and so forth but do not preclude the presence of one or more functions operations components and so forth. It will be further understood that the terms comprises or has when used in this specification specify the presence of stated feature number step operation component element or a combination thereof but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features numbers steps operations components elements or combinations thereof. In the present disclosure the expression and or is taken as specific disclosure of each and any combination of enumerated things. For example A and or B is to be taken as specific disclosure of each of A B and A and B.

As used herein teens such as first second and so forth are used to describe various components however it is obvious that the components should not be defined by these terms. For example the terms do not restrict the order and or importance of the corresponding components. The terms are used only for distinguishing one component from another component. For example a first component can be referred to as a second component and likewise a second component may also be referred to as a first component without departing from the teaching of the inventive concept.

It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless otherwise defined herein all terms including technical or scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by those skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the specification and relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device can include devices having an operation support function. Examples of the electronic device can include smartphone table Personal Computer PC mobile phone video phone electronic book e book reader desktop PC laptop PC netbook computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA Portable Multimedia Player PMP MP3 player mobile medical appliance camera wearable device y head mounted device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing electronic bracelet electronic necklace electronic appcessory electronic tattoo smartwatch etc.

According to certain embodiments the electronic device can be one of smart home appliances having operation support function. Examples of the smart electronic appliance as an electronic device can include television Digital Video Disk DVD player audio player refrigerator air conditioner vacuum cleaner electronic oven microwave oven laundry machine air cleaner set to box TV box for example a SAMSUNG HOMESYNC APPLE TV and GOOGLE TV game console electronic dictionary electronic key camcorder and electronic frame and the like.

According to certain embodiments examples of the electronic device can include medical device such as Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT Navigation device Global Positioning System GPS receiver Event Data Recorder EDR Flight Data Recorder FDR car infotainment device maritime electronic device such as maritime navigation device and gyro compass aviation electronic device avionics security device vehicle head unit industrial or home robot Automatic Teller s Machine ATM of financial institution Point Of Sales POS and the like.

According to certain embodiments examples of the electronic device include furniture and buildings or structures having a communication function electronic board electronic signature receiving device projector and metering device such as water electric gas and electric wave metering devices. According to various embodiments the electronic device can be any combination of the aforementioned devices. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device can be a flexible device. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Descriptions are made of the electronic devices according to various embodiments with reference to accompanying drawings hereinafter. The term user used in various embodiments may denote a person or a device such as an artificial intelligent electronic device using the electronic device.

In certain embodiments of the present disclosure the term object screen denotes the screen including execution icons of applications installed in the electronic device favorite webpage icons folders files images and the like. In certain embodiments of the present disclosure the object screen includes at least one tab screen for example a recent tab screen object tab screen download tab screen and recommend tab screen. The objects can be presented differently depending upon the tab screen. More particularly the recent tab screen can be the screen for displaying the objects running or having execution history. The object tab screen can be the screen presenting the objects installed in the electronic device that are arranged according to the user setting. The download tab screen can be the screen presenting the objects installed in the electronic device. The recommend tab screen presents the objects recommended based on the information on the objects executed by user.

The bus connects the aforementioned components to each other. The bus is a circuit for exchanging signals such as control messages among the components.

For example the processor receives a command from any of the aforementioned components such as memory input output interface display communication interface and application control module through the bus interprets the command and executes operation or data processing according to the decrypted command.

The memory stores the command or data received from the processor or other components such as input output interface display communication interface application control module and so forth or generated by the processor or other components. The memory stores program modules including kernel middleware Application Programming Interface API applications and the like. Each programming module can be implemented as software firmware hardware and any combination thereof.

The kernel controls or manages the system resources such as bus processor and memory for use in executing the operation or function implemented with the middleware the API or the application . The kernel also provides an interface allowing the middleware API or application to access the components of the electronic device to control or manage.

The middleware operates as a relay of data communicated between the API or application and the kernel . The middle executes control of the task requests from the applications in such a way of assigning priority for use of the system resource such as bus processor and memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is the interface for the applications to control the function provided by the kernel or the middleware and includes at least one interface or function e.g. command for file control window control image control or text control.

According to various embodiments the applications includes Short Messaging Service Multimedia Messaging Service SMS MMS application email application calendar application alarm application health care application such as an application of measuring quantity of motion or blood sugar level and environmental information application such as an atmospheric pressure humidity and temperature applications. Additionally or alternatively the application can be an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and another external electronic device such as electronic device . Examples of the information exchange application include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device and a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application can be provided with a function of relaying the alarm information generated by the other applications such as an SMS MMS application email application health care application and environmental information application of the electronic device to an external electronic device for example electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application can provide the user with the notification information received from an external electronic device such as electronic device . The electronic device application manages namely installs deletes and updates the function of an external electronic device for example turn on off of the electronic device itself or a part of it or adjustment of the brightness or resolution of the display that communicates with the electronic device or the service such as a communication or messaging service provided by the external electronic device or an application running on the external device.

According to various embodiments the applications include an application designated according to the property for example a type of an external electronic device such as electronic device . If the external electronic device is the MP3 player the applications can include a music playback application. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications can include a heal care application. According to an embodiment the application includes at least one of applications designated to the electronic device or applications received from the external electronic device such as from server and electronic device .

The input output interface delivers the command or data input by the user through with an input output device such as a sensor keyboard and touchscreen to the processor memory communication interface and or application control module through the bus . For example the input output interface provides the processor with the data corresponding to the touch by the user on the touchscreen. The input output interface outputs the command or data which is received from the processor memory communication interfaced or the application control module through the bus through the input output device for example speaker and display. For example the input out interface outputs the voice data processed by the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display presents various information such as for example multimedia data and text data to the user.

The communication interface establishes a communication connection of the electronic device with an external device such as electronic device and server . For example the communication interface connects to the network through a wireless or wired link for communication with the external device. Examples of the wireless communication technology can include wireless fidelity Wi Fi BLUETOOTH BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication technology such as for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro and General System for Mobile communications GSM . Examples of the wired communication technology include Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to certain embodiments the network is a telecommunication network. The communication network includes at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of Things and telephone network. According to certain embodiments the communication protocol between the electronic device and an external device for example transport layer protocol data link layer protocol and physical layer protocol can be supported by at least one of the applications API middleware kernel and communication interface .

The application control module processes information obtained from other components for example processor memory input output interface display and communication interface and provides the processed information to the user in various ways. For example the application control module identifies an interface element attached to the electronic device store information on the interface element in the memory and activate an application on the basis of the stored information.

The AP operates an Operating System OS application programs or both to control a plurality of hardware software components or a combination thereof connected to the AP and performs data processing and operations on multimedia data. For example the AP can be implemented in the form of System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP includes a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module for example communication interface performs data communication with other electronic devices for example electronic device and server through a network. According to certain embodiments the communication module includes a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module is responsible for voice and video communication text messaging and Internet access services through a communication network such as LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro and GSM networks. The cellular module performs identification and authentication of electronic devices in the communication network using the SIM card . According to certain embodiments the cellular module performs at least one of the functions of the AP . For example the cellular module can perform at least a part of the multimedia control function.

According to certain embodiments the cellular module includes a Communication Processor CP . The cellular module can be implemented in the form of SOC. Although the cellular module for example communication processor the memory and the power management module are depicted as independent components separated from the AP the present disclosure is not limited thereto but can be embodied in a way that the AP includes at least one of the components for example cellular module .

According to certain embodiments each of the AP and the cellular module for example communication processor loads a command or data received from at least one of the components on a non volatile or volatile memory and process the command or data. The AP or the cellular module can store the data received from other components or generated by at least one of other components in the non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module includes a processor for processing the data it transmits or receives. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are depicted as independent blocks at least two of them for example communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module can be integrated in the form of SoC.

The RF module is responsible for data communication for example transmitting receiving RF signals. Although not depicted the RF module can include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter and a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . The RF module also can include the elements for transmitting or receiving or both electric wave in free space for example conductor or conductive wire. Although is directed to the case where the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are sharing the RF module the present disclosure is not limited thereto but can be embodied in a way that at least one of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module transmits receives RF signals an independent RF module.

The SIM card can be designed so as to be inserted into a slot formed at a predetermined position such as a slot of the electronic device. The SIM card can store unique identity information such as for example Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory which can be the same as memory includes at least one of the internal memory and an external memory . The internal memory includes at least one of a volatile memory such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or a non volatile memory One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory.

According to certain embodiments the internal memory is a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory can be a flash drive such as Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD micro SD Mini SD extreme Digital xD and Memory Stick. The external memory can be connected to the electronic device through various interfaces functionally. According to certain embodiments the electronic device includes a storage device or storage medium such as hard drive.

The sensor module measures physical quantity or checks the operation status of the electronic device and converts the measured or checked information to an electric signal. The sensor module can include at least one of gesture sensor A Gyro sensor B barometric sensor C magnetic sensor D acceleration sensor E grip sensor F proximity sensor G color sensor H such as Red Green Blue RGB sensor bio sensor I temperature humidity sensor J illuminance sensor K and Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module can include E nose sensor not shown Electromyography EMG sensor not shown Electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown Electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown Infrared IR sensor not shown iris sensor not shown and fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module can further include a control circuit for controlling at least one of the sensors included therein.

The input device includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor keys and an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel can be one of capacitive resistive infrared microwave type touch panel. The touch panel can include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive type touch panel it is possible to detect physical contact or approximation. The touch panel can further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel can provide the user with haptic reaction.

The digital pen sensor can be implemented with a sheet with the same or similar way as touch input of the user or a separate recognition sheet. The keys can include physical buttons optical key and keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device capable of checking data by detecting sound wave through a microphone and can be implemented for wireless recognition. According to certain embodiments the electronic device receives the user input made by means of an external device for example computer or server connected through the communication module .

The display which can be the same as display module can include a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel can be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD panel or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED panel. The panel can be implemented so as to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel can be implemented as a module integrated with the touch panel . The hologram device can present 3 dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The projector can project an image to a screen. The screen can be placed inside or outside the electronic device. According to certain embodiments the display includes a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and the projector .

The interface can include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface and a DOsubminiature D sub . The interface can include the communication interface as shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface can include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a SD MMC card interface and infrared Data Association irDA standard interface.

The audio module converts sound to electric signal and vice versa. At least a part of the audio module can be included in the input output interface as shown in . The audio module processes the audio information input or output through the speaker the receiver the earphone and the microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of taking still and motion pictures and according to an embodiment includes at least one image sensor for example front and rear sensors a lens not shown and Image Signal Processor ISP not shown and a flash for example LED or xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module manages the power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module can include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC a battery and a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC can be integrated into an integrated circuit or SoC semiconductor. The charging can be classified into wireless charging and wired charge. The charger IC can charge the battery and protect the charger against overvoltage or overcurrent. According to certain embodiments the charger IC includes at least one of wired charger and wireless charger ICs. Examples of the wireless charging technology includes resonance wireless charging and electromagnetic wave wireless charging and there is a need of extra circuit for wireless charging such as coil loop resonance circuit and diode.

The battery gauge measures the residual power of the battery charging voltage current and temperature. The battery stores or generates power and supplies the stored or generated power to the electronic device . The battery can include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays operation status of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device booting status messaging status and charging status. The motor converts the electronic signal to mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device includes a processing unit for example GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV is able to process the media data abiding by the broadcast standards such Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB and media flow.

As described above the electronic device operating method and apparatus of the present disclosure is capable of providing diverse screen displays in adaptation to various conditions to implement optimal environment for utilizing the electronic device resulting in improvement of user convenience. Also the electronic device operating method and apparatus of the present disclosure is advantageous in terms of facilitating navigation between folders by sorting the folders by hierarchical level.

The above enumerated components of the electronic device of the present disclosure can be implemented into one or more parts and the names of the corresponding components can be changed depending on the kind of the electronic device. The electronic device of the present disclosure can include at least one of the aforementioned components with omission or addition of some components. The components of the electronic device of the present disclosure can be combined selectively into an entity to perform the functions of the components equally as before the combination.

The term module according to the embodiments of the disclosure means but is not limited to a unit of one of software hardware and firmware or any combination thereof. The term module can be used interchangeably with the terms unit logic logical block component or circuit. The term module can denote a smallest unit of component or a part thereof. The term module can be the smallest unit of performing at least one function or a part thereof. A module can be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module can include at least one of Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and Programmable Logic Device known or to be developed for certain operations.

According to certain embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device a host device and a health measurement device constructs a network environment there between. The electronic device can include the electronic device illustrated in and the AP can be exchanged with the term such as a control module or a process which can control the electronic device.

The host device according to embodiment of the present disclosure includes at least one module of a user account module a content storage module and a host device communication module .

According to embodiments of the present disclosure the user account module stores information on a user account of the electronic device . The information on the user account can be at least one of a name nickname password and address of the user who activates an application by using the electronic device and an identification number of the electronic device . For example the user can activate the application of the electronic device to input a name IDentification ID and password of the user. The input name and ID of the user can be transmitted to the host device through the communication module . The user account module can store health information related to the received user account.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure the content storage module stores basic health data corresponding to the user account. For example the user can activate the application to input and store information related to gender height and weight of the user and a health index body fat rate or information on whether the user is admitted to a hospital or not recognized in advance by the user as additional elements of the user account. The input and storage of the information can include an operation in which the user touches and inputs information related to the user account into the display module and then transmits the touched and input information related to the user account to the host device . Accordingly the content storage module can store the received related information.

Further according to embodiments of the present disclosure the host device analyzes pieces of basic health data corresponding to user accounts stored in the content storage module and classify a predetermined user account as one similar group account among a plurality of similar group accounts. In addition according to embodiments of the present disclosure the host device determines similar group accounts based on at least one piece of basic health data of the user account and health state measurement data of the user account.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure the host device classifies pieces of basic health data of the user accounts subscribed to the application into several similar groups based on a preset reference. For example the host device classifies the user accounts based on at least one reference among gender height weight body fat rate muscle amount and recommended calorie intake and determine a similar group.

More specifically for example ten user accounts are stored in the content storage module . When recommended calorie intakes among the pieces of basic health data of six user accounts are similar to each other for example when based on the recommended calorie intake of one user account recommended calorie intakes of other user accounts are within an error range of 5 the host device determines that the six user accounts having similar recommended calorie intakes are first similar group accounts and the four remaining user accounts are second similar group accounts.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure when the host device receives basic health data or health measurement data corresponding to the user account the host device determines a similar group account which includes the received basic health data or health measurement data and decides the similar group account of the received user account.

Further the host device communication module is a module that can communicate with the electronic device and the health measurement device communication unit . The host device communication module can activate the application and thus the electronic device can receive a request signal making a request for pieces of health state measurement data of similar group accounts. The host device communication module can transmit the pieces of health state measurement data of the similar group accounts stored in the content storage unit in response to the request signal.

Further according to another embodiment of the present disclosure the host device communication module receives pieces of health measurement data corresponding to the user accounts from the health measurement device . The host device stores the received pieces of health measurement data in the content storage module . At this time the host device can store pieces of pre stored health measurement data corresponding to the user account. For example when the host device receives health measurement data of the user account the host device can identify the user account and make a control to store the health measurement data of the user account.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the health measurement device includes at least one of a health state module a health state storage module and a health measurement device communication module .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the health measurement device includes a blood pressure measuring device a pulse measuring device a momentum measuring device a skin current measuring device a body temperature measuring device and a pedometer. Further the health measurement device can include a wearable health measurement device. The health measurement device can include for example a momentum measuring device a shoe sensor a wrist band Google glass a smart watch Galaxy Gear and a fuel band.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the user measures health related information by using the health measurement device the health state storage module stores information related to the health related information. For example when the user measures their body temperature by using the health measurement device including a body temperature measuring device the health state storage module can store the measured body temperature.

The health measurement device communication module can communicate with the electronic device and the host device module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure after activating the application the user of the electronic device measures health using the health measurement device . When receiving a request signal related to the health measurement the health measurement device communication module can transmit health measurement information to the electronic device or the host device .

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the health measurement device communication module uses short range technologies such as Bluetooth Radio Frequency IDentification RFID Infrared Data Association IrDA Ultra WideBand UWB ZigBee and the like. More specifically the health measurement device communication module can be used when the health measurement device transmits the measured data to the electronic device .

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the health measurement device communication module transmits the data measured by the health measurement device to the electronic device using wireless Internet access for example Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wi Fi Wireless broadband Wibro World Interoperability for Microwave Access Wimax or High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSPDA .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as the display module receives a touch input event the AP activates the application . The display module can display the activated application .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays a title display area a date display area an exercise state display area and a reference display area as illustrated in .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the title display area displayed by the display module includes a user interface related to the title displayed by the application . For example the display module can display a user interface such as a Running Mate as illustrated in . When the display module receives a touch input event for changing the title display area the AP can change the user interface corresponding to the received touch input event. Further as the title display area changes the user interface related to the application displayed by the display module can be changed.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the date display area displayed by the display module includes a user interface related to the year month and day. For example the display module can display a user interface such as a 14 Aug. 2012 in the date display area . The date display area displayed by the display module can be changed according to a user s intention. Further the AP can display via display module a current date by default. In addition when the display module receives a touch input event for changing the date in the date display area the AP can change the user interface displayed in the date display area and display a user interface corresponding to the changed date in the exercise state display area and the reference display area .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the health state display area data related to a name nickname gender weight and burnt calories of the user account data related to a name nickname gender weight and burnt calories of an account to be compared with the user account and the user interface. Further the display module can display in the health state display area a user interface for comparing calorie data muscle amount data and body fat data between the user account and the account to be compared with the user account during a predetermined period of the user account.

For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the exercise state display area a user interface corresponding to the user account and a user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared with at least one of different colors sizes and images.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the health state display area burnt calories of the user account received from the health measurement device and burnt calories of the account to be compared with the user account. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the health state display area burnt calories of the user account measured using a sensor for example a body heat measurement sensor a pedometer or a heartbeat sensor mounted to the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP calculates recommended calorie data by using age data height data weight data muscle amount data and body fat data of the user account. A method of calculating the recommended calorie data can be determined by a predetermined equation or an equation downloaded through a health related link. For example when recommended calorie data pre stored in the electronic device has data corresponding to a man who is 20 29 years old 67 Kg and 174 cm tall recommended calorie data can be set as 2500 Kcal. When a recommended calorie data pre stored in the electronic device has data corresponding to a man who 30 49 years old 63 Kg and 170 cm tall recommended calorie data can be set as 2500 Kcal.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the health state display area a user interface for comparing result values of the pieces of health state measurement data of the user account and the account to be compared with the user account. For example the display module can display in the health state display area a user interface for comparing the pieces of health state measurement data for example burnt calorie data or body fat data of the user account and the account to be compared with the user account. More specifically for example as illustrated in when the result values of the burnt calorie data and the body fat data of the account to be compared with the user account are larger than the result values of the burnt calorie data and the body fat data of the user account the display module can display a Lose user interface on a side of the health state display area corresponding to the user interface and display a Win user interface on a side of the health state display area corresponding to the account to be compared with the user account.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the reference display area a reference comment related to a health state. The AP can compare and analyze pieces of data to determine one comment from the pre stored health comments and can control the display module to display the one comment. The pre stored health comments can refer health comments stored based on recommended calories burnt calories or weight.

For example a health comment of a first group which weighs 10 Kg more than a recommended weight can be pre stored in the memory as run for 1 hour everyday and a health comment of a second group which weighs 5 Kg 10 Kg less than a recommended weight can be pre stored in the memory as run for 30 minutes or more everyday . The AP can extract one health comment from the pre stored health comments and make a control to display the extracted health commend by mapping the health comments and the pieces of health measurement data of the user account. More specifically for example the display module can display In comparison with your running mate you d better walk for 30 minutes every day to improve your health in the reference display area as illustrated in .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays a user interface related to similar group accounts as illustrated in . The similar group accounts can be determined based on at least one piece of the pre stored basic health data of the user account and health state measurement data of the user account.

Further the display module can display user interfaces corresponding to the similar group accounts a user interface corresponding to the user account and a user interface corresponding to the account to be compared with the user account with at least one of different colors sizes and images.

For example the display module can display the user interface corresponding to the user account with a red color the user interface corresponding to the account to be compared with the user interface with a blue color and the user interfaces corresponding to other similar group accounts with green and blue colors.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays the title display area and the health state display area as illustrated in .

The title display area displayed by the display module can include a user interface related to the title displayed by the application . When the display module receives a touch input event for changing the title display area the AP can change the user interface corresponding to the received touch input event. Further as the title display area is changed the user interface related to the application displayed by the display module can be changed.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the health state display area displayed by the display module includes a schedule table of the user account. For example as illustrated in the display module can display health measurement data based on each date with respect to the selected user account.

For example the display module can display a user interface related to a result value of burnt calories such as 2014 01 02 300 Kcal burned 2014 01 03 130 Kcal burned and 2014 01 04 140 Kcal burned.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module can display the title display area and the health state display area as illustrated in .

The title display area displayed by the display module can include a user interface related to the title displayed by the application . When the display module receives a touch input event for changing the title display area the AP can change the user interface corresponding to the received touch input event. Further as the title display area is changed the user interface related to the application displaying the display module can be changed.

For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the exercise state display area user interfaces corresponding to similar group accounts a user interface corresponding to the user account and a user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared with at least one of different colors sizes and images. For example the display module can display a first user interface with a black color the user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared with a pink color and the user interfaces corresponding to the similar group accounts with yellow and green colors.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP compares health measurement data of the user account and health measurement data of the similar group accounts and determine ranks of the user accounts. For example the display module can compare pieces of health measurement data of the similar group accounts so as to determine and display a top ranked user account and display ranks of the user accounts. The measurement data can be determined based on burnt calories a body fat rate or a goal achievement rate. For example when the burnt calorie of the user account among ten similar group accounts is ranked third the display module can display a user interface corresponding to the user account as a third place .

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module compares and displays health measurement data of a first user account and pieces of health measurement data of similar group accounts. For example the display module can display a body fat rate which is an example of the health measurement data of the user account and display body fat rates of similar group accounts. Further the display module can display a result value calculated according to a change in the body fat rate of each user account based on each date each week and each month.

After the application is activated the AP identifies the user account stored in the application . When the display module receives a touch input event making a request for health measurement data of the user account the AP can control the communication module to transmit a request signal making a request for health state measurement data of the user account in step . The request signal can include basic data for example a name nickname phone number and IDentification ID of the pre stored user account.

When the health measurement device receives a request signal of health state measurement data of the user account the health measurement device determines health measurement data for example a blood sugar level body temperature and body fat rate corresponding to the user account corresponding to the user account. The health measurement device transmits health state measurement data of the user account to the electronic device in step . The electronic device receives and stores the health state measurement data of the user account transmitted by the health measurement device .

The electronic device transmits a request signal making a request for health state measurement data of similar group accounts to the host device in step . When the host device receives the request signal from the electronic device the host device determines at least one piece of similar groups based on basic health data of the user account and health state measurement data of the user account. For example different user accounts having the same gender and similar body fat rates for example when a difference between body fat rates is within 5 or a difference between aimed calories is within 10 can be classified into a first similar group a second group and a third similar group.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the similar group accounts continuously change. The host device transmits health state measurement data of the determined similar group accounts to the electronic device in step . The electronic device receives the health state measurement data of the similar group accounts from the host device .

The electronic device determines an account with which to be compared from similar group accounts based on a predetermined reference in step . The account with which to be compared refers to a user account to compare to the user account of the application and is not the user account of the application . Further the account with which to be compared may continuously change and be updated among the similar group accounts. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the change and update of the similar group accounts and the account with which to be compared is pre designated by the user or can be performed when the display module receives a touch input event related to the change and update.

The electronic device identifies health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared in step . Further in step the display module displays the health state measurement data of the user account and the health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared. The display module displays a user interface corresponding to the user account and a user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared based on a result of comparison between the pieces of health state measurement data of the user account and the account with which to be compared.

The display module displays the user interface corresponding to the user account and the user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared with at least one of different colors sizes and images.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure based on result values of health state measurement data included in the health state measurement data of the user account and the account with which to be compared the display module displays a user interface indicating which result value between the user account and the account with which to be compared has a higher value. For example the display module can display a win user interface when the health state measurement data of the user account has a higher value and display a lose user interface when the health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared has a higher value.

When the display module receives a touch input event for activating the application the AP activates the application which provides at least one piece of health related information in step .

The AP identifies a user account pre stored in the application and receives health state measurement data of the user account from the health measurement device in step . The AP can store the health state measurement data of the user account in the memory .

The communication module receives health state measurement data of similar group accounts from the host device in step . The AP can store the received health state measurement data. Further the AP compares an account with which to be compared from the similar group accounts based on a predetermined reference and identifies health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared in step . The predetermined reference can be health measurement data for example burnt calories gender age and height set by the user. Further the user can select one user account from the similar group accounts.

In step the display module displays the health state measurement data of the user account and the health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the health state display area user interfaces corresponding to similar group accounts a user interface corresponding to the user account and a user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared with at least one of different colors sizes and images.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP compares health measurement data of the user account and health measurement data of the similar group accounts and determine classes of the user accounts. For example the display module can determine and display a first ranked user account among the similar group accounts and can display ranks of the user accounts.

When the display module receives a touch input event for activating the application the AP activates the application which provides at least one piece of health related information in step .

The AP identifies a user account pre stored in the application and receives health state measurement data of the user account from the health measurement device in step . The AP can store the health state measurement data of the user account in the memory .

The communication module receives health state measurement data of similar group accounts from the host device in step . The AP can store the received health state measurement data. Further the AP compares an account with which to be compared from the similar group accounts based on a predetermined reference and identifies health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared in step . The predetermined reference can be health measurement data for example burnt calories gender age and height set by the user. Further the user can select one user account from the similar group accounts.

In step the display module displays the health state measurement data of the user account and the health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays in the health state display area user interfaces corresponding to similar group accounts a user interface corresponding to the user account and a user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared with at least one of different colors sizes and images.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP compares health measurement data of the user account and health measurement data of the similar group accounts and determine ranks of the user accounts. For example the display module can determine and display a first ranked user account among the similar group accounts and can display ranks of the user accounts.

Subsequently the AP determines one health comment among the pre stored health comments based on the health state measurement data of the user account and the health state measurement data of the similar group accounts in step . The pre stored health comments can refer health comments stored based on recommended calories burnt calories or weight.

Subsequently the display module displays the determined health commend in step . For example a first health comment is mapped when a body fat rate is larger than or equal to 10 and a second health commend is mapped when a body fat rate is larger than or equal to 5 and smaller than 10 . When a body fat rate of the user account is 7 the AP can control the display module to display the second health comment in step .

When the display module receives a touch input event for activating the application the AP activates the application which provides at least one piece of health related information in step .

The AP identifies a user account pre stored in the application and receives health state measurement data of the user account from the health measurement device in step . The AP can store the health state measurement data of the user account in the memory .

The communication module receives health state measurement data of similar group accounts from the host device in step . The AP can store the received health state measurement data. Further the AP compares an account with which to be compared from the similar group accounts based on a predetermined reference and identifies health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared in step . The predetermined reference can be health measurement data for example burnt calories gender age and height set by the user. Further the user can select one user account from the similar group accounts.

The AP compare health state measurement data of the user account health state measurement data of similar group accounts and health state measurement data of the account with which to be compared in step . The health state measurement data of each user account can include body fat data and burnt calorie data.

The display module can display a user interface corresponding to the similar group accounts a user interface corresponding to the user account and a user interface corresponding to the account with which to be compared based on a result of the comparison between the pieces of health state measurement data in step .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module displays the user interfaces corresponding to the similar group accounts the user interface corresponding to the user account and the user interface corresponding to the account to be compared with the user account with at least one of different colors sizes and images.

Further the display module determines a rank of the user account among all the similar group accounts and can display the rank. In addition the display module can display burnt calories of the user account based on each date burnt calories based on each week and burnt calories based on each month.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the devices for example modules or their functions or methods are implemented by computer program instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium. In the case that the instructions are executed by at least one processor for example processor the at least one processor executes the functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage medium can be the memory . At least a part of the programming module can be implemented for example executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming module can include modules programs routines sets of instructions and processes for executing the at least one function.

The computer readable storage medium includes magnetic media such as a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media including a Compact Disc CD ROM and a Digital Video Disc DVD ROM a magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and the hardware device designed for storing and executing program commands such as ROM RAM and flash memory. The programs commands include the language code executable by computers using the interpreter as well as the machine language codes created by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device can be implemented with one or more software modules for executing the operations of the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure.

The module or programming module of the present disclosure can include at least one of the aforementioned components with omission of some components or addition of other components. The operations of the modules programming modules or other components can be executed in series in parallel recursively or heuristically. Also some operations can be executed in different order omitted or extended with other operations.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

