---

title: Microfluidic device
abstract: Described herein are particular embodiments relating to a microfluidic device that may be utilized for cell sensing, counting, and/or sorting. Particular aspects relate to a microfabricated device that is capable of differentiating single cell types from dense cell populations. One particular embodiment relates a device and methods of using the same for sensing, counting, and/or sorting leukocytes from whole, undiluted blood samples.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09234884&OS=09234884&RS=09234884
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 09234884
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150413
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 296 199 filed Jun. 4 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 029 158 issued on May 12 2015 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 062 808 filed Apr. 4 2008 now abandoned. This application also includes a claim of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 922 296 filed Apr. 6 2007 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This work was supported in part by the National Space Biomedical Research Institute through NASA grant number NCC 9 58 317. The United States government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to fabricated microfluidic devices that can be utilized as cell sensors and or actuators. In certain embodiments the microfluidic device may be used for labeling sensing differentiating and or sorting targets particularly cell populations.

Standard cell sensors or actuators are generally based on flow cytometry and employ one or a combination of electrical impedance sensing light scattering measurement and chemical or immunostaining followed by optical sensing.

For differentiation of blood cells by electrical impedance sensing red blood cells are removed by lysing in order to reduce the blood volume. Lysing is generally done through the use of saponin or surfactants. During the lysing process the leukocyte cell volume changes depending on cell type due to the leakage of cytoplasm contents and cell nucleus shrinkage in varying amounts. Fujimoto 9 1999 . Thus normally 2 part lymphocytes versus granulocytes or even 3 part lymphocytes neutrophils and other leukocytes differential can be achieved by simple electrical impedance measurement of particle volume. Hughes Jones et al. 27 623 625 1974 Oberjat et al. 76 518 1970 Vandilla et al. 125 367 1967 Maeda et al. 27 1117 1200 1979 Maeda et al. 9 555 558 1982 . Combining direct current and alternating current impedance special acidic hemolysis in basophile channel and alkali hemolysis in eosinophil channel a 5 part leukocyte differential can be achieved. Tatsumi et al. 9 9 20 1999 .

Alternative optical methods are based on light scattering and fluorescence staining of organelles granules and nuclei. Generally low angle scattered light contains information on cell size and high angle scattered light can be used to probe internal composition of the cell. To achieve 5 part differential certain leukocyte populations such as eosinophils require special stain to change its scattering characteristics from other granulocytes and basophils typically need to be counted separately following the differential lysis of other leukocytes. McKenzie Prentice Hall 2004 Fujimoto 9 1999 .

In general conventional automated cell analyzers are bulky expensive and mechanically complex which restricts their locations to hospitals or central laboratories. Conventional cell analyzers require larger sample volumes and generate more waste than the systems developed using microdevices. Furthermore for analysis of certain cell types such as leukocytes accuracy and speed of counting differentiation and or sorting is important for determining disease state and treatment.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein include a microfluidic apparatus comprising a substrate having a first channel having a defined physical feature wherein said first channel is in fluid communication with at least one inlet for receiving a fluid wherein said first channel leads to a restrictive access and wherein said first channel is in fluid communication with a second channel having a defined physical feature wherein said second channel is in fluid communication with at least one fluid flow outlet and a fluid biological sample. In certain embodiments said defined physical feature is a depression or protrusion. In particular embodiments said fluid biological sample comprises blood. In certain embodiments the microfluidic apparatus further comprises a detection zone and or a filter array each in fluid communication with said channel and said fluid flow outlet.

A microfluidic apparatus comprising a substrate having at least one first channel having a defined physical feature at least one first inlet formed in said first channel for receiving a first fluid wherein said first channel is in fluid communication with a bifurcated channel wherein said bifurcated channel is in fluid communication with a third channel detection zone at least one second inlet for receiving a second fluid wherein said second inlet is in fluid communication with a branched channel a filter structure in fluid communication with a reservoir wherein said reservoir is in fluid communication with said third channel detection zone at least one fluid flow outlet formed in said third channel and a fluid sample wherein the ratio of the cross sectional area of said second channel compared to the cross sectional area of said first channel is 1 10. In certain embodiments the defined physical feature is a depression or a protrusion.

In certain embodiments said filter structure comprises a filter array said first fluid comprises sheath fluid and said second fluid comprises blood.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein relate to a detection system comprising a microfluidic apparatus and further comprising a light source a lens assembly a filter assembly and an image capture device. In some embodiments the detection system further comprises at least one display unit or at least one recording unit. In certain particular embodiments said excitation source comprises a laser particularly an argon laser. In particular embodiments said filter assembly comprises an excitation filter and at least one emission filter. In certain embodiments said filter assembly further comprises at least one aperture and at least one neutral density filter. In particular embodiments said filter assembly further comprises at least one glass polarizer.

In certain embodiments the lens assembly of the detection system comprises at least one condenser lens at least one objective lens and at least one beamsplitter. In particular embodiments said image capture device comprises at least one CCD camera CMOS device photodiode or photomultiplier tube. In certain embodiments said filter assembly comprises at least two emission filters and said image capture device comprises at least one photomultiplier tube. In certain embodiments said display unit comprises a computer and said recording unit comprises an oscilloscope. In particular embodiments said excitation source comprises an argon laser said lens assembly comprises a condenser lens an objective lens and a beamsplitter said filter assembly comprises an excitation filter a pinhole aperture and a neutral density filter and at least one emission filter said image capture device comprises a CCD camera and a photodiode and said display unit comprises a personal computer and further comprising an amplifier.

In particular embodiments said excitation source of the detection system comprises an argon laser said lens assembly comprises a condenser lens an objective lens and a beamsplitter said filter assembly comprises an excitation filter at least one emission filter said image capture device comprises a photomultiplier tube and said display unit comprises a personal computer.

Other embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method for identifying a target comprising providing a fluid sample to at least one microfluidic apparatus wherein said fluid sample contains at least one dye providing an excitation source to induce at least one fluorescent signal in a target detecting the fluorescent signal using a sensor in the apparatus and identifying the target based in part on the analysis of the fluorescent signal. In certain embodiments said target is selected from the group consisting of cells organelles nuclei granules DNA and RNA. In other embodiments said target comprises a cell selected from the group consisting of a monocyte a granulocyte a macrophage a neutrophil an eosinophil a basophil or other leukocyte. In specific embodiments said target comprises a leukocyte and said dye comprises acridine orange. Particular embodiments of the method further comprising counting or sorting the target in the sample by analysis of the fluorescent signal. In certain embodiments said fluid sample comprises blood.

The present disclosure relates to fabricated microfluidic devices that can be utilized as cell sensors and or actuators. In certain embodiments the microfluidic device may be used for labeling sensing differentiating and or sorting cell populations.

Microfluidic cell sensors and actuators can provide cell sensing and counting for a more accurate outcome and a lower cost. Particle counting including bead erythrocyte and cultured cell has been demonstrated for example by electrical impedance sensing light scattering detection and fluorescent sensing. Gawad et al. 1 78 2001 Lee et al. 18 678 681 2005 Satake et al. 83 77 2002 Morgan et al. 6 367 370 2006 Lee et al. 15 447 454 2005 Altendorf et al. 97 v. 1 p. 531 Chicago Ill. 1997 Holmes et al. 21 1621 1630 2006 Yang et al. 17 2001 2009 2006 Simonnet et al. 78 5653 5663 2006 Niehren et al. 67 2666 2671 1995 .

In the area of optical sensing microfabrication has allowed development of microdevices to replace glass capillary based flow chambers and to integrate compact optics and provide on chip sample transport.

Cell sensing and counting particularly of leukocytes is cumbersome due in part to the cell population numbers. For leukocyte differential in microdevices based on optical sensing a V groove microchannel was fabricated by anisotropic wet etching of a silicon substrate and 3 part leukocyte differential was demonstrated for diluted blood without sheath flow by two parameter light scattering. Altendorf v. 1 p. 531 1997 .

However until the instant embodied disclosure it was necessary to dilute cell samples for cell sensors and actuators for many reasons. One reason dilution has been necessary is in order to prevent the coincidence effect in which multiple cells appear in the detection zone simultaneously. In human blood the ratio of erythrocytes or red blood cells to leukocytes is on the order of about a thousand to one a dilution factor of from about one hundred to several tens of thousands is typically required to avoid erythrocyte interference for electrical impedance or light scattering detection. Furthermore for counting leukocytes in samples where leukocytes are specifically fluorescently labeled a dilution of at least ten times is usually required. Sheenan and Storey 59 336 1947 Kass 76 810 12 1981 Weigl et al. 3 267 274 2001 

Dilution is also often required in order to avoid clogging sample chambers and also in order to remove erythrocytes that are lysed prior to running the sample particularly for electrical impedance or light scattering detection. Some of these protocols also require an additional fixation buffer.

In the present disclosure a dye such as Acridine orange 3 6 dimethylamineoacridine can be used to differentiate a target such as cells organelles granules nuclei molecules including double or single stranded nucleic acids such as DNA or RNA chromosomes and also including synthetic forms . In one particular embodiment leukocytes may be detected counted or sorted without need for lysing erythrocytes or fixing the cell sample. Certain dyes such as Acridine orange are also desirable due to the fast diffusion into cells easy commercial availability and excitation and emission wavelength compatibility with common light sources i.e. argon laser and other broad spectrum light sources in visible range and optical filters. Kosenow 7 217 1952 Schiffer 19 200 1962 Jackson 17 643 1961 Hallermann et al. 70 217 1964 .

Acridine orange is a pH sensitive fluorescent cationic dye that binds to double stranded DNA by electrostatic attraction and intercalation of the Acridine orange between base pairs. Upon binding the excitation maximum becomes 502 nm and the emission maximum becomes 525 nm green . Acridine orange also binds to RNA and single stranded DNA with a shifted excitation maximum of 460 nm and an emission maximum of 650 nm red . Adams and Kamentsky 15 289 1971 Adams and Kamentsky 18 389 91 1974 Steinkam et al. 17 113 17 1973 . Acridine orange is also desirable in that it is hydrophobic in neutral pH and can easily diffuse through the cell membrane and cell nuclear membrane to bind to RNA and DNA. In living cells Acridine orange is protonated in the acidic environment of lysosomes which makes it cationic and prevents the dye from leaking out of lysosome membranes. Moriyama et al. 92 1333 36 1982 . When Acridine orange is used for leukocyte analysis the cell nucleus is stained green with slightly mixed red a result of double stranded DNA and single stranded RNA while the cell cytoplasm is stained red due to the RNA and lysosomes. Thus leukocyte counting can be achieved easily by using the strong signal from the green fluorescent channel. Leukocyte differentiation can be achieved by analyzing the signal from the red fluorescence channel.

For fresh stained leukocytes a 3 part differential lymphocytes monocytes and granulocytes can be achieved by studying the red fluorescent signal of an Acridine orange stained diluted blood sample whereas a 5 part differential leukocytes lymphocytes monocytes neutrophils eosinophils and basophils has been demonstrated with hypotonic dilution and fresh Acridine orange stained leukocyte samples. Adams and Kamentsky 15 289 1971 Adams and Kamentsky 18 389 391 1974 Steinkam et al. 17 113 17 1973 .

Other dyes can be utilized with certain embodiments described in the instant disclosure such as ethidium bromide three dye combinations ethidium bromide brilliant sulfaflavine and stilbene disulfonic acid derivative oxazine dyes basic orange 21 and a polymethine dye. Shapiro et al. 24 396 411 1976 Shapiro et al. 25 836 844 1977 U.S. Pat. No. 4 376 820 U.S. Pat. No. 4 882 284 Tibbe et al. 17 1210 1213 1999 U.S. Pat. No. 4 400 370 Kass 36 711 715 1988 .

One embodiment of the instant disclosure relates to a device or apparatus for cell counting and or differentiating. In particular embodiments the device or apparatus comprises a substrate formed from a material such as silicon glass plastic metal or other material. One particular embodiment of the instant disclosure was fabricated using soft lithography. Quake 290 1536 40 2000 . Other photolithographic or etching techniques could also be used according to specific embodiments.

One embodiment of the device was microfabricated using two parts of PDMS polydimethylsiloxane Sylgard 184 Dow Corning MI USA mixed vigorously in 10 1 ratio. After degassing in vacuum for about 30 minutes the mixture was poured onto DRIE etched silicon mold that had been pretreated with HMDS hexamethyldisilazane for easy separation after baking. The molds were baked at 80 C. for 30 minutes. The hardened PDMS was separated from the silicon mold and PDMS sheet was cut into pieces and fluidic access holes were punctured on each piece with a Luer stub adapter Becton Dickinson N.J. USA . Each PDMS piece was carefully placed on a cleaned glass slide and baked overnight at 80 C. In some cases oxygen plasma treatment 300 m Torr 25 W 30 s was used for PDMS and glass slides in order to improve adhesion between them particularly with devices that were intended to be reused. Bhattacharya et al. 14 590 97 2005 .

In one particular embodiment the channel structure was molded on a 1 cm 1 cm PDMS block with the thickness of the PDMS block at less than 3 mm. In one particular embodiment the channel depth was 16 m in order to accommodate large leukocyte sizes.

One exemplary embodiment of the device is shown in . For this particular embodiment a first fluid flow inlet allows for deposition of for example sheath flow fluid and is in fluid communication with a bifurcated channel with a first channel arm and a second channel arm that both converge at a junction of a reservoir and the detection zone . In this particular embodiment the apparatus further comprises a second fluid flow inlet that allows for deposition of for example a sample fluid such as blood that is in fluid communication with a filter array structure by way of a branched sample flow zone channel and a fluid flow outlet . In this particular exemplary embodiment 2 D hydrodynamic focusing was adopted to control the particle position of the cell sample in the detection zone . According to the embodiment shown in the ratio of cross sectional area of sheath flow to core sample flow was 10 1 and the channel width of the detection zone was 50 m with the width of the focused sample flow preferably 5 m or less. In particular embodiments the channels comprise a physical feature such as a depression or a protrusion.

One other exemplary embodiment of the device is shown in . For this particular embodiment the fluid flow inlet allows for deposition of a sample fluid such as a biological sample or other fluid sample containing a target. In one particular embodiment the biological sample includes a cell sample such as blood. In this exemplary embodiment the fluid inlet is in fluid communication with a first channel which contains a restrictive access that is juxtaposed to a second channel which comprises the detection zone which is also in fluid communication with the fluid flow outlet . In certain embodiments the height of the first and or second channels is approximately 5 m approximately 8 m approximately 10 m approximately 12 m approximately 15 m approximately 20 m approximately 25 m approximately 30 m approximately 35 m approximately 40 m or any value therebetween. In certain embodiments the width of the second channel is approximately 5 m 10 m approximately 15 m approximately 20 m approximately 25 m approximately 30 m approximately 35 m approximately 40 m approximately 45 m approximately 50 m or any value therebetween. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the second channel width was approximately 20 m in size.

One other exemplary embodiment of the device is shown in . For this particular embodiment the fluid flow inlet allows for deposition of a sample fluid such as a biological sample or other fluid sample containing a target. In one particular embodiment the biological sample includes a cell sample such as blood. In this exemplary embodiment the fluid inlet is in fluid communication with a first channel which contains a restrictive access that is juxtaposed to a second channel which comprises the detection zone which is also in fluid communication with the fluid flow outlet . In certain embodiments the height of the first and or second channels is approximately 5 m approximately 8 m approximately 10 m approximately 12 m approximately 15 m approximately 20 m approximately 25 m approximately 30 m approximately 35 m approximately 40 m or any value therebetween. In certain embodiments the width of the second channel is approximately 5 m 10 m approximately 15 m approximately 20 m approximately 25 m approximately 30 m approximately 35 m approximately 40 m approximately 45 m approximately 50 m or any value therebetween. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the second channel width was approximately 30 m in size.

Certain embodiments of the device use a focused laser source for illumination since cell focusing in the detection zone is highly desirable. However other embodiments included in the present disclosure use a more uniform diffused light source and a slit aperture. Such embodiments utilize straight channel geometry without cell focusing. In one embodiment the channel length of the detection zone is 1000 m. A filter structure upstream of the sample flow zone may also be included in certain embodiments which filtered out contaminants including erythryocyte rouleaux and other large particle aggregates to prevent clogging in the detection zone . In certain embodiments the size of the rectangular pillar structure components of the filter structure was 200 m 40 m. The spacing between the pillars in each of the three rows was 40 m 30 m and 20 m respectively which allows for even the largest leukocytes to pass through the filter region .

The optical system was set up on an optical bench as shown in transmitted laser induced fluorescent detection system or LIF . In one particular embodiment the system setup comprises an excitation or laser source a lens assembly the microfluidic apparatus an optional additional lens assembly a filter assembly and an image capture device . In certain embodiments one or more emission filters comprise the filter assemblies . In certain embodiments the image capture device comprises a charge coupled device CCD camera a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS device or a photomultiplier tube PMT device. In particular embodiments the image capture device may be coupled to communicate with a display unit or computing device such as a personal computer. One of skill in the art would recognize that multiple and various computer software programs are available that allow for integration compilation analysis reconfiguration and other manipulation of data received from the system particularly by way of the computing device .

In one particular exemplary embodiment an argon laser National Laser NLC210BL 488 nm and 15 30 mW adjustable Salt Lake City Utah USA is used as the excitation source. An aperture of 50 m diameter is put in front of the laser output to facilitate the alignment process and lower the illumination intensity. In certain embodiments an optional laser line bandpass filter bandwith equal to about 1.9 nm with a central wavelength of 488 nm is used to further purify the laser source. In certain other embodiments an optional neutral density filter NDF is used to attenuate laser excitation. Alternatively the pinhole and NDF are replaced by two linear glass polarizers Edmond Optics TECH SPEC Barrington N.J. USA so that the illumination level on the device can be easily adjusted.

In one particular embodiment a long working distance microscope objective USMCO M Plan Apo 10 0.28 NA Dayton Nev. USA is used as a condenser lens . Another long working distance microscope objective Bausch Lomb 50 0.45 NA Rochester N.Y. USA is used as an objective lens . In the same embodiment three emission filters are used in one particular test 488 nm long pass filter Chroma H1500 LP transition width 

The signal is electrically amplified and detected either with a silicon photodiode receiver module Electro Optical Systems UVS 025 H Phoenixville Pa. USA or a photon multiplier tube PMT Hamamatsu H5784 20 Japan . The voltage signal is sent to a deep memory oscilloscope HP 54645A Palo Alto Calif. USA . When the buffer in the oscilloscope is full the data can be loaded to a computer and analyzed with a Matlab peak detection program. Video may be taken with an analog CCD camera Hitachi KP D20B Japan at 30 frames per second and then converted to digital format and stored in a computer . Other imaging capture devices such as CMOS PMT or still other devices may also be used with particular embodiments described herein. In certain exemplary test runs the system set up utilizing a photodiode detector and PMT are more sensitive than the CCD camera and have a faster time response. During one exemplary test run the optical system was first roughly aligned on a dummy device with the aid of images from CCD camera. A 10 m diameter illumination spot on the detection zone is easily achieved with proper alignment.

As shown in and the instant apparatus may be incorporated into a hand held unit comprising a laser source such as a laser emitting diode or LED at least one lens at least one filter assembly with optional beamsplitter a microfluidic apparatus as described herein on a microchip or other substrate an input output port at least one image capture device which may be a photomultiplier tube. In certain embodiments the hand held unit may be assembled and enclosed by an outer casing or casings and rivets or bolts .

One aspect of the instant disclosure relates to methods of counting and or differentiating cells particularly leukocytes from undiluted cell samples such as human or other animal blood by utilizing microfabricated devices. In one exemplary embodiment cell detection was conducted utilizing Acridine orange and fresh whole human blood.

In one exemplary embodiment fresh human blood was obtained from healthy donors and used within 3 days of collection. EDTA was added to the blood samples in order to prevent coagulation. For Acridine orange staining the stock solution was added to obtain a final dye concentration of 10 g mL in Ficoll Paque Plus. Ficoll Paque Plus was also used as the sheath flow solution. Fluorescent polystyrene beads 5 m green fluorescent beads were purchased from Duke Scientific Corporations Fremont Calif. USA. Cell nucleus stain Acridine orange was obtained from Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA and dissolved in water to achieve a 10 mg mL stock solution. Blood diluent Ficoll Paque Plus was purchased from Amersham Biosciences Sweden. Phosphate buffered saline 10 PBS was obtained from Ambion 9625 Austin Tex. USA.

Staining results were observed under a fluorescent microscope Nikon E800 Japan with a triple band fitter block DAPI FITC TRITC which has excitation filter wavelengths of 385 400 nm 475 490 nm and 545 565 nm and emission filter wavelengths of 450 465 nm 505 535 nm and 580 620 nm. Images were taken with a cooled CCD camera RT KE color 3 shot Diagnostic Instruments Sterling Heights Mich. USA . Rough count of leukocytes was made with a hemactyometer Hausser Scientific Horsham Pa. USA . When necessary blood or fluorescent beads were diluted with Ficoll Paque Plus specific gravity 1.077 g mL to match the specific gravity of the solvent to leukocytes. All fluids were pumped into the devices using syringe pumps Harvard Apparatus Pico Plus Holliston Mass. USA .

In this particular embodiment an analog CCD camera was used for video recording at a matched camera frame rate of 3 nL min sample flow rate and 30 nL min sheath flow rate. For photodiode detection a 0.1 L minute sample flow rate and a 1 L minute sheath flow rate were used. A 1 L minute sample flow and a 10 L minute sheath flow were used with the photon multiplier tube instrument.

In order to achieve a high signal to noise ratio the maximal concentration for cell staining was established using routine methods in the art. Adams and Kamentsky 15 289 1971 . As shown in whole blood samples were analyzed with different Acridine orange concentrations. The optimal concentration for leukocyte staining was determined to be approximately in the range of 1 g mL. In the particular exemplary embodiment utilized in the distance between the coverslip and the grid surface was approximately 100 m. As can be seen in an abundance of erythrocytes were present under the field of view yet these cells did not interfere with the fluorescent signal from the leukocytes as shown in .

As can be seen in the exemplary embodiment utilized in cell detection did not experience any significant photobleaching. The signal was fitted as a first order exponential decay with time constant of 6.4 0.7 seconds. Two more tests confirmed that the photobleaching time constant for one particular embodiment was between 1 second and 10 seconds. The photobleaching time constant for one particular embodiment was characterized by filling the device with Acridine orange stained whole blood. The channel was scanned by the laser spot and the illumination was set to be the same as that used in testing. The entire process was recorded with a CCD camera. Whenever a fluorescing leukocyte was observed with fluorescent emission clearly distinct from the background we stopped moving the laser spot and waited until the leukocyte was photobleached to background level. The images were extracted from the video converted to 8 bit gray scale images and analyzed with a Matlab program. The data was fitted to a single time constant exponential decay.

Additionally green fluorescent beads were tested at a concentration of about 2 10 L as observed by CCD camera and shown in . Sample flow rate was set at about 3 nL min and sheath flow was about 30 nL min. In one exemplary test run a hydrodynamic focused laser beam as shown in created an enlarged light circle as shown in . Only a single bead normally appeared in each image. With diffused laser illumination as shown in the trace of the bead could be identified as shown in . Hydrodynamic focusing limits the cross sectional area of the detection zone without shrinking the channel diameter thus the signal to noise ratio may be improved without increasing the risk of clogging the channel. Also the reduction of the cross section of the core flow reduces the coincidence effect. Finally enclosing the core sample flow with sheath flow minimizes fluorescent dye absorption in the device walls thus reducing background noise. As indicated in bead signals from the photodiode detector could easily be identified.

As shown in using both red and green emission filters images extracted from video taken by the CCD camera show the signal identified from a leukocyte stained with Acridine orange as well as the signal obtained from the fluorescent control bead. For photodiode detection the expected leukocyte detection rate would average about 4 11 cells per second for a normal individual.

In one exemplary embodiment a time trace over 50 seconds of an undiluted blood sample stained with Acridine orange using a green emission filter and a throughput of up to about 1000 leukocytes per second was attained. Maxima signal intensity peak height as in from the green fluorescent channel with 525 nm emission filter was studied by plotting its histogram as shown in . As expected the lower intensity portion is likely contributed mainly by lymphocytes while the higher intensity portion is likely mainly from monocytes with the center region is likely mostly from granulocytes. Steinkam et al. 17 113 117 1973 .

In one exemplary embodiment a time trace over 50 seconds of an undiluted blood sample stained with Acridine orange using a red fluorescent channel with 650 nm emission filter was conducted. As shown in two peaks were identified the lower intensity is dominated by lymphocytes and the higher intensity peak is largely monocytes and granulocytes. The time between the start of staining the cells to photodiode recording was typically greater than 15 minutes.

In both exemplary studies the maximal throughput was about 1000 leukocytes per second utilizing one embodiment of the PMT detector. By using undiluted blood minimal sample volume was maintained which increases the throughput. Since sample throughput is proportional to volume flow rate but is limited by the maximal pumping rate and response time of the sensing system a 3 nL minute core flow rate was used with the CCD camera detection. Under this flow rate a typical leukocyte traveled through the detection zone in approximately 30 milliseconds which roughly equals the CCD frame acquisition time.

Flow rates for varying embodiments may be suitable for a range from approximately 1 nL minute approximately 2 nL minute approximately 3 nL minute approximately 4 nL minute approximately 5 nL minute approximately 6 nL minute approximately 7 nL minute approximately 8 nL minute approximately 9 nL minute approximately 10 nL minute approximately 20 nL minute approximately 30 nL minute approximately 40 nL minute approximately 50 nL minute approximately 60 nL minute approximately 70 nL minute approximately 80 nL minute approximately 90 nL minute approximately 100 nL minute approximately 110 nL minute approximately 120 nL minute approximately 130 nL minute approximately 140 nL minute approximately 150 nL minute or any value therebetween for photodiode detection. Likewise for PMT detection flow rates for varying embodiments may be suitable for a range from approximately 200 nL minute approximately 300 nL minute approximately 400 nL minute approximately 500 nL minute approximately 600 nL minute approximately 700 nL minute approximately 800 nL minute approximately 900 nL minute approximately 1 L minute approximately 2 L minute approximately 3 L minute approximately 4 L minute approximately 5 L minute or any value therebetween.

In one exemplary embodiment the time response of the photodiode receiver module under low sensitivity setting was 0.16 milliseconds and 0.6 milliseconds under high sensitivity while the time response of the PMT detector in one exemplary run was about 16 microseconds.

Furthermore by decreasing the cross sectional area the linear flow velocity of the core flow is increased which requires faster sensing and reduces the coincidence effect by increasing the average distance between cells in the detection zone.

Thus by utilizing particular embodiments disclosed herein relating to a microfluidic device leukocyte sensing counting and sorting can be achieved one by one in a micro flow cytometer system. Furthermore dense cell suspensions such as whole undiluted blood may be utilized in certain embodiments described herein which provides for reduced sample and waste volume reduced processing time and completely eliminates on chip mixing and buffer storage. In particular aspects leukocytes can be sensed one by one in a micro flow cytometer system.

As described herein certain embodiments of the device can be implemented in various sizes and conformations including but not limited to a bench top device a handheld device such as is shown in an implantable device a nanotechnology device or other size or conformation. In the smaller exemplary conformations high illumination LED is used for excitation and a minipump is used to manipulate the sample in suction mode while fluorescent signals from green and red channels can be detected simultaneously.

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

