---

title: Systems and methods for authenticating a user and device
abstract: Systems and methods for authenticating a user request for authentication are provided. An authentication device that may be part of such a system includes a network interface component coupled to a network and configured to receive at least one data packet having authentication information including at least a username of a user and user credentials. The device also includes a memory coupled to the network interface component and configured to store the received authentication information, one or more instructions for authenticating the user, and account information of the user. The device further includes one or more processors configured to analyze the received information, calculate a score based on the received information, determine a threshold, compare the calculated score with the determined threshold, and authenticate the user and a device from which the data packet is received if the calculated score is greater than or equal to the determined threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396317&OS=09396317&RS=09396317
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09396317
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150114
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 523 425 filed on Jun. 14 2012 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments disclosed herein are related to systems and methods for authenticating a user and device with information in addition to a username and password. In particular embodiments disclosed herein are related to a system and method for authenticating a user and a device with low quality or low entropy information supplied in addition to a username and password.

As people use the internet for more and more reasons scammers and so called black hat hackers increasingly look to the internet as a new frontier of illicit opportunity. People who use the internet to conduct financial transactions such as making purchases and banking can be attacked by the scammers and hackers and attackers can gain access to the online financial accounts of these people. The attackers can use this access for their financial gain which can hurt the financial standing and credit rating of the people. Moreover access to one account of a person may result in access to additional accounts because of the exploitable personal information viewable in the accessed account.

In some cases attackers may know a user s login or password but not both. As a result an attacker may try a brute force attack by entering common passwords with a known username or common or user identifiable i.e. jdoe usernames with known or common passwords. Passwords with few characters such as a common four character personal identification number PIN may be particularly vulnerable to brute force attacks because there are few permutations and many common PINs are used by users for their convenience. One method to stop brute force attacks is to limit the rate at which an attacker can make password guesses such that the account is disabled after a certain number of incorrect guesses. However this method disables the account associated with a particular username and cannot prevent attacks that enter a common password with many different usernames which is referred to as a vertical attack . For example in many cases a PIN number of 2580 is very common because it is simply the center row of numbers on a keypad. An attacker having a list of usernames can try that PIN number or other common PIN numbers on each of the usernames and may have some moderate level of success.

The variety and portability of internet capable devices have resulted in not only users being capable of performing internet communications and transactions more frequently but also in the opportunity for attackers to attempt attacks on unsuspecting users. The lucrative potential that these attacks present the attackers encourages attackers to try and stay one or more steps ahead of the security. When a countermeasure or other security provision is put into place to stop or otherwise limit the effect of an attack the attackers develop ways to overcome the countermeasure or find additional ways to exploit the operating system browser or other executable software to launch another possibly more effective attack.

Accordingly there is a need for a system and method for authenticating a user using low quality or low entropy information supplied in addition to a username and password.

Consistent with some embodiments there is provided an authentication device. The device includes a network interface component coupled to a network and configured to receive at least one data packet having authentication information the authentication information including at least a username of a user and user credentials. The device also includes a memory coupled to the network interface component and configured to store the received authentication information one or more instructions for authenticating the user based on the received authentication information and account information of the user. The device further includes one or more processors configured to analyze the received information calculate a score based on the received information determine a threshold compare the calculated score with the determined threshold authenticate the user and a device from which the data packet is received if the calculated score is greater than or equal to the determined threshold and request low quality information if the calculated score is less than the determined threshold.

Consistent with some embodiments there is also provided a method for authenticating a user request for authentication. The method includes receiving by an authentication device coupled to a network the user request for authentication computing by the authentication device a score based on information included in the user request and determining by the authentication device a threshold. The method further includes determining by the authentication device if the computed score is greater than or equal to the determined threshold and authenticating by the authentication device a user making the user request and a user device on which the user request was made if the computed score is greater than or equal to the determined threshold and requesting by the authentication device low quality information if the computed score is not greater than or equal to the determined threshold.

Consistent with some embodiments there is further provided a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions for execution by one or more processors that when executed cause the one or more processors to perform a method for authenticating a request for authenticating a user and a device received over a network by a network interface component coupled to the one or more processors. The method includes receiving the user request for authentication computing a score based on information included in the user request and determining a threshold. The method further includes determining if the computed score is greater than or equal to the determined threshold authenticating the user and the device if the computed score is greater than or equal to the determined threshold and requesting low quality information if the computed score is not greater than or equal to the determined threshold.

These and other embodiments will be described in further detail below with respect to the following figures.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing certain embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments presented are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other material that although not specifically described herein is within the scope and spirit of this disclosure.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet as well as various cellular phone carriers such as carrier having a subscriber database .

Client mobile device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client mobile device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless mobile computing devices. Consistent with some embodiments client mobile device may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software having one or more processors and capable of reading instructions stored on a non transitory machine readable medium for execution by the one or more processors. Consistent with some embodiments client mobile device includes a machine readable medium such as a memory not shown that includes instructions for execution by one or more processors not shown for causing client mobile device to perform specific tasks. For example such instructions may include displaying content such as a web page or a user interface using a browser . Further content may be content displayed by particular applications or apps stored in a memory of client mobile device and executed by one or more processors executing in client mobile device . Some common forms of machine readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge and or any other medium from which one or more processors or computer is adapted to read.

As discussed above client mobile device may be a mobile device such as a smartphone such as an iPhone or other mobile device running the iOS operating system the Android operating system a BlackBerry operating system Windows Phone operating system or webOS . Client mobile device may also be a tablet computer such as an iPad or other tablet computer running one of the aforementioned operating systems. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments client mobile device may be referred to as a user device or a customer client device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Consistent with some embodiments browser may be a mobile browser app which may be used to provide a user interface to permit a user to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . Browser application may include a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by one or more processors that is configured to interface and communicate with the payment service provider server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user is able to access websites to find and purchase items as well as access user account information or web content. User through client mobile device may also communicate with payment service provider server to create an account authenticate and or log in to the account and make a payment to a merchant or another individual connected to network .

Client mobile device in one embodiment may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a user account with payment provider server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through payment service provider server and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile apps downloaded and resident on client mobile device that enables user to access content through the apps.

Client computing device which can be similar to client mobile device may be a separate device such as a PC or laptop or netbook or may be omitted if the user will be using only client mobile device . Both user devices may be used to access content with the payment service provider server or other content provider. Client computing device in one embodiment may include a browser application and other applications similar to browser application and applications in client mobile device . Browser application and applications enable user to access a payment provider web site and communicate with payment service provider server as well as other online sites.

Payment service provider server according to some embodiments may be maintained by an online payment provider which may provide processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of user . Payment service provider server may include at least one authentication application which may be adapted to interact with client mobile device and or client computing device over network to authenticate requests to access accounts and purchase items products and or services by user . Payment service provider server may be configured to maintain a plurality of user accounts in an account database each of which may include or be separate from an account information associated with individual users including user . For example account information may include identity information of user such as one or more full names business names street addresses email addresses and phone numbers website addresses or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions for user as well as user credentials such as user passwords and or PINs. Further account information may further include additional low quality or low entropy information about user and client mobile device and or client computing device that is collected by payment service provider server when user is authenticated by authentication app . Such low quality or low entropy information includes a location of user when authenticated an internet protocol IP address of client mobile device or client computing device carrier that client mobile device uses a user agent or device identification device ID of client mobile device or client computing device and behavioral characteristics of user as user interacts with client mobile device and or client computing device . As such authentication application may be configured to interact with a user to authenticate the user through user credentials such as a password or PIN and automatically store the PIN and or password and or additional low quality or low entropy information about user and client mobile device and or client computing device .

As shown in system may also include satellite which may be in communication with any or all of client mobile device client computing device payment service provider server and carrier . Consistent with some embodiments satellite may be a global positioning system GPS satellite in communication with client mobile device for determining a location of client mobile device .

Consistent with some embodiments computing system includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within computing system and communication information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers or digital signal processors DSP a system memory component which may correspond to random access memory RAM an internal memory component which may correspond to read only memory ROM and a external or static memory which may correspond to optical magnetic or solid state memories. Consistent with some embodiments computing system further includes a display component for displaying information to a user of computing system . Display component may be an liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Computing system may also include an input component allowing for a user of computing system to input information to computing system . Such information could include payment information such as an amount required to complete a transaction account information authentication information or identification information. An input component may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. Computing system may further include a navigation control component configured to allow a user to navigate along display component . Consistent with some embodiments navigation control component may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover if device includes a touch screen display component input component and navigation control may be a single integrated component such as a capacitive sensor based touch screen.

Consistent with some embodiments computing system may include a location component for determining a location of computing system . In some embodiments location component may correspond to a GPS transceiver that is in communication with satellite . In other embodiments location component may be configured to determine a location of computing system by using an internet protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby mobile communications towers. Location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in any of system memory internal memory and or external memory that can be transmitted to a third party for the purpose of identifying a location of computing system .

Computing system may perform specific operations by processing component executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component internal memory component and or external or static memory . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processing component for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. The medium may correspond to any of system memory internal memory and or external or static memory . Consistent with some embodiments the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media include optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise system bus . According to some embodiments transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computing systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computing system may transmit and receive messages data and one or more data packets information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component . Communication link may be wireless through a wireless data protocol such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HDSPA LTE RF NFC or through a wired connection. Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processing component as received and or stored in memory or .

Login screen may require additional information consistent with some embodiments. Login screen may be a login screen provided by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Login screen may further include a submit button which when selected posts username and PIN to network . According to some embodiments submit button may be selected by touch the displayed submit button on a touch screen device such as client mobile device . In other embodiments submit button may be activated by navigating to button with navigation control such as a trackball mouse or cursor moving device and then pressing a physical button on client mobile device or client computing device .

Consistent with some embodiments additional information may be posted to network by selecting submit button . For example the additional information may include high quality information such as a cookie or a local object such as a FlashObject. The additional information may also include low quality or low entropy information such as an IP address of device a device identification ID of device or a location of device . The posted username PIN and additional information may collectively be considered as at least one data packet that is posted to network . Consistent with some embodiments at least one data packet may be posted to network using secure sockets layer SSL transmission. According to some embodiments at least one data packet may be posted to network to log in to payment service provider server or to otherwise provide authentication credentials to payment service provider server in order to make a payment receive a payment or otherwise authorize a transaction or other action to be made in accordance with user s account with the payment service provider. Further at least one data packet may be a single data packet including username PIN and additional information or may be multiple data packets including this and other information.

Consistent with some embodiments payment service provider server requires the additional information in order to authenticate user and device as the additional information provides an additional layer of security which may be nothing more than a deterrent over a simple username and PIN authentication. For example if PIN is simply an arrangement of 4 numbers chosen by user or assigned by payment service provider server an attacker may be able to try the same PIN with many different usernames in the hope that one will work in a so called vertical attack as described above. Alternatively an attacker that has obtained a username and password of user may try to authenticate user s account with the payment service provider from the attacker s device. Requiring additional information about user and or device can limit and or deter both of these types of attacks. This required additional information may be the cookie and or local object stored on device discussed above. Consistent with some embodiments the cookie and or local object may be stored in a memory of device upon an initial successful authentication with payment service provider server . The cookie and or local object will provide evidence to payment service provider server that user and device have been previously authenticated and in most cases performing a permitted authentication with payment service provider server . Consistent with some embodiments the cookie and or local object may have an associated time stamp that payment service provider server checks so that the cookie and or local object are periodically refreshed replaced.

User however may wish to authenticate to payment service provider server via multiple devices such as both a client mobile device and client computing device . Alternatively user may purchase a new device or wish to authenticate to payment service provider server from a friend s or relative s device. In each of these instances the devices will not have the cookie and or local object stored therein making it difficult for user to authenticate to payment service provider server . In such cases a user may be able to provide low quality or low entropy information in lieu of the cookie and or local object in order to authenticate with payment service provider server as described in below.

After analyzing the received user and device information a score is computed based on the received user and device information . Consistent with some embodiments the score is computed by payment service provider server but in some other embodiments the score may be computed by additional processing devices coupled to payment service provider server not shown . The score may be computed by assigning a weight or number to the additional information received in at least one data packet . For example if at least one data packet includes a cookie indicating that user and device have previously been authenticated by payment service provider server the cookie may be assigned a relatively high score. Similarly if at least one data packet includes a local object such as a FlashObject previously assigned by payment service provider server upon a successful authentication the local object may also be assigned a relatively high score.

After the score has been computed a threshold is determined . Consistent with some embodiments the threshold is dependent on user . For example if user has interacted with the payment service provider that maintains server in the past these past interactions stored in account information may be consulted in order to determine the threshold. If user has previously had fraudulent activity on their account the threshold may be higher than that for a user having no fraudulent activity. Other factors that may be used in order to determine the user dependent threshold include credit scores current location of user in comparison to known home location or previous location recent successful or failed interactions with the payment service provider and complaints lodged against user with the payment service provider. The factors that may be used to determine the user dependent threshold may also include contextual based factors that factor in the context in which user is currently attempting to authenticate with payment service provider server . For example if user is attempting to authenticate with payment service provider server in order to send a payment to an individual with whom user has previously performed a transaction with the user dependent threshold may be lower than it would be if the authentication is to send a payment to an individual with whom user has not previously performed a transaction with. For authorization requests for performing a transaction between a payer and a payee using payment service provider server additional factors that may be considered in determining the user dependent threshold include the trustworthiness of the payer and payer and the user history stored in account information of both payer and payee. Such account information may include volume of transactions complaints how long the payer or payee has been active.

After the threshold is determined the computed score is compared with the determined threshold . If the computed score is determined to be less than the threshold payment service provider server may request additional low quality or low entropy information . Consistent with some embodiments the request for low quality information requires in response the user to enter low quality information or the user to perform additional authentication or the user to perform a specified action or the user to execute a specific program on the device such as a anti virus or anti malware application or a response from a third party or a scan of a device performed by a third party or payment service provider server . Low quality or low entropy information includes information that when taken alone would be insecure authentication information but when taken in combination with more high quality or high entropy authentication information can add security to an authentication request. At the very least the additional low quality or low entropy information requested by payment service provider server may act as a deterrent to would be attackers. The low quality or low entropy information may include information that is provided by user client mobile device or client computing device from payment service provider or from carrier . For example low quality or low entropy information that may be provided by user include a time stamped photo of user taken by for example client mobile device . Low quality or low entropy information that may be provided by client mobile device or client computing device may further include an internet protocol IP address a user agent or device identification device ID the service provider e.g. carrier that client mobile device is currently operating on a current location determined by location component biometric information of user a short password or recovery PIN entered by user or behavioral characteristics of user . Behavioral characteristics may include information related to how user interacts with client mobile device such as how user accesses data from client mobile device how user swipes the screen of client mobile device or accelerometer data captured by client mobile device . Low quality or low entropy information that may be provided by carrier may include an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI number of client mobile device an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI number associated with client mobile device a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID number associated with client mobile device the IP address of client mobile device a location of client mobile device or personal information stored in subscribe database of user . Low quality or low entropy information that may be provided by or in this case retrieved by payment service provider server includes information concerning user that may be stored in account information and in some embodiments may be compared with low quality or low entropy information provided from client mobile device or client computing device or carrier to determine if the provided low quality or low entropy information is indicative of information that would be provided by user . For example in one embodiment payment service provider server may retrieve an e mail address associated with user stored in account information and send an e mail to the listed e mail address containing a hyperlink for user to follow to enter additional low quality or low entropy information or that will allow payment service provider server to automatically collect low quality or low entropy information about user and device . The additional low quality or low entropy information that is collected by payment service provider server may be stored in account information for future use.

After receiving the additional low quality or low entropy information the score will again be computed based on the additional information the threshold will be determined and the computed score will be compared against the determined threshold . If the computed score is greater than or equal to the threshold user and device is authenticated . Authentication of user and device may include the transmission of a cookie or a local object such as a FlashObject from payment service provider server to device which may correspond to client mobile device or client computing device . Consistent with some embodiments the presence of a cookie or local object in data packet may provide a sufficient score to authenticate user and device so that they do not need to provide additional low quality or low entropy information when attempting a successive authentication.

According to some embodiments if a computed score is not greater than or equal to a determined threshold even after receiving additional low quality or low entropy information user and device may be authenticated but flagged as having limited authentication. In such embodiments having limited authentication may allow only certain actions to be performed when interacting with payment service provider server .

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Consequently embodiments as described herein may provide systems and methods for authenticating a user by determining if the request includes sufficient information to meet or surpass a user based threshold and if the request does not include sufficient information requesting additional low quality or low entropy information from the user until the user based threshold is met. Such systems and methods may provide an additional security for users by providing a deterrent to would be attackers using brute force attacks. The examples provided above are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art may readily devise other systems consistent with the disclosed embodiments which are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. As such the application is limited only by the following claims.

