---

title: Systems and methods for performing group actions based on machine-readable codes
abstract: Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can receive from a user a machine-readable code associated with a group. The group can be identified based on the machine-readable code. A set of current members of the group can be identified. The user can be provided with access to the set of current members of the group. In some instances, an identifier for the user can be received. The user can be added, based on the identifier, to the set of current members of the group. The current members can be provided with access to the set of current members including the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401956&OS=09401956&RS=09401956
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09401956
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151105
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 509 959 filed on Oct. 8 2014 and entitled Systems and Methods for Performing Group Actions based on Machine Readable Codes which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present technology relates to the field of machine readable codes. More particularly the present technology relates to techniques for performing group actions based on machine readable codes.

Today people utilize computing devices or systems for various purposes. Users can use their computing devices to interact with one another access content share content and create content. A user can utilize his or her computing device to interact with a social networking system or service such as by providing viewing or otherwise accessing information through the social networking system. In some cases the social networking system can provide an interface or medium for users of the social networking system to communicate with one another.

In some instances two or more users of the social networking system may desire to become connected within the social networking system such as by adding one another as friends. Conventional approaches typically involve one user typing another user s name or identifier into a search bar and searching for the other user within the social networking system. However such conventional approaches can often times be inconvenient challenging and inefficient. For example typing on a small keyboard can be difficult or cumbersome for the user. In another example one user can misspell another user s name. In a further example there can be multiple users with the same name. These and other concerns associated with conventional approaches can create challenges for or reduce the overall user experience associated with interacting among multiple users.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can include systems methods and non transitory computer readable media configured to receive from a user a machine readable code associated with a group. The group can be identified based on the machine readable code. A set of current members of the group can be identified. The user can be provided with access to the set of current members of the group.

In an embodiment an identifier for the user can be received. The user can be added based on the identifier to the set of current members of the group. The current members can be provided with access to the set of current members including the user.

In an embodiment the providing the current members with access to the set can correspond to one or more push operations. In some cases the providing the current members with access to the set can include broadcasting the set to the current members via the one or more push operations.

In an embodiment the machine readable code can include at least one of a Quick Response QR code a machine readable barcode or a machine readable tag.

In an embodiment the group can be managed at least in part by a host user. In some instances the machine readable code can be provided via the host user. In some cases the receiving from the user of the machine readable code can occur subsequent to the user scanning the machine readable code provided via the host user.

In an embodiment the user can be provided with one or more actions to be performed with respect to at least a subset of the set of current members of the group.

In an embodiment the one or more actions can include at least one of accessing a resource adding social network connections requesting to add social network connections removing social network connections ignoring requests for social networking connections communicating in a message interacting with an event interacting with a group interacting with a page interacting with a game or interacting with a campaign.

In an embodiment the user can be provided with one or more actions to be performed with respect to an entirety of the set of current members excluding the user.

In an embodiment the machine readable code can be presented via a computing device of the user in conjunction at least temporarily with at least a subset of the set of current members of the group that is also presented via the computing device of the user.

In an embodiment the machine readable code presented via the computing device of the user can be scanned using a code scanner tool by at least a second user.

In an embodiment a second identifier can be received for the second user. The second user can be added based on the second identifier to the set of current members of the group. The current members can be provided with access to the set of current members including the second user.

In an embodiment it can be determined that the user satisfies one or more specified criteria prior to the providing the user with access to the set of current members of the group.

In an embodiment the one or more specified criteria can be associated with at least one of a time limitation a location limitation a privacy limitation or a limitation relating to a number of times the machine readable code is scanned.

In an embodiment the one or more specified criteria can be set by at least one of a system setting or an instruction from a host user.

In an embodiment the set of current members of the group can be presented to the user via a computing device of the user. In some instances the set of current members can be sorted based on at least one of time an alphabetical order or a social network graph ranking relative to the user.

In an embodiment the group can be associated with at least one of a social networking system a forum a meeting or an event.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the disclosed technology for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology described herein.

People use computing devices or systems for a wide variety of purposes. Computing devices can provide different kinds of functionality. Users can utilize their computing devices to produce information access information and share information. In some cases users can use their computing devices to access information through a social networking system or service . Users can connect with one another via the social networking system. In addition through the social networking system multiple users can communally interact share information access information play games generate funds or accomplish various other tasks.

In some cases a first user of the social networking system or service and a second user of the social networking system may desire to connect with each other. Under conventional approaches usually either the first user or the second user has to obtain the other user s name type the other user s name into a search tool search for the other user within the social networking system and find the other user within the search results. However often times the other user s name can be difficult to spell. Moreover searching for the other user s name can produce many search results containing irrelevant users with the same name. Furthermore the act of typing the other user s name can be inconvenient challenging and inefficient. Additionally under conventional approaches if the first and second users meet a third user and wish to connect with the third user then the first and third users have to connect with each other in one occasion and the second and third users have to connect with each other in another occasion. Accordingly such conventional approaches to interacting among multiple users can be challenging inconvenient and inefficient. These and other conventional approaches can add unnecessary obstacles for multiple users to connect or otherwise interact via the social networking system. Conventional approaches can create challenges for or reduce the overall user experience associated with interacting among multiple users.

Therefore an improved approach to facilitating interactions among multiple users can be beneficial for addressing or alleviating various concerns associated with conventional approaches. Various embodiments of the present disclosure can receive from a user a machine readable code associated with a group. The group can be identified based on the machine readable code. A set of current members of the group can be identified. The user can be provided with access to the set of current members of the group. In some instances an identifier for the user can be received. The user can be added based on the identifier to the set of current members of the group. The current members can be provided with access to the set of current members including the user. It is contemplated that many variations are possible.

The first client device can correspond to a computing device or system associated with User A who is a host user. The second client device can correspond to a computing device associated with User B. The third client device can correspond to a computing device associated with User C. In this example system the host user User A can utilize his or her computing device to provide a machine readable code such as by presenting or displaying a Quick Response QR code .

In some instances a host user can be a user who hosts creates moderates or otherwise manages a group. The group can correspond to a collection assembly or community including one or more group members. In some cases the group can exist virtually or be represented digitally such as the case for a social networking group or an online forum group. In some cases the group can correspond to a gathering of one or more users to facilitate accomplishing one or more objectives.

In the example of the host user e.g. User A can utilize his or her computing device or system to create a group. The host user can acquire a machine readable code such as a QR code that is associated with or representative of the group. In some embodiments the QR code can be generated by the host user s computing device such as by an application running on the host user s computing device . In some embodiments the host user can request the QR code from the server system or the group machine readable code module on the server system . For example User A can request the server system to create the group and or to create the QR code representing the group. The host user s computing device can acquire or receive from the server system the QR code representative of the group.

Continuing with the example of the host user can provide present and or display the QR code via his or her computing device . User B can utilize a machine readable code scanner such as a QR code scanner on his or her computing device to read or scan the QR code . Upon scanning or reading the QR code User B s computing device can provide the QR code or a representation thereof to the server system for processing. The server system can utilize the group machine readable code module to determine that the QR code provided by User B s device is associated with or representative of the group created by User A the host user. In this example in response to User B scanning the QR code the group machine readable code module can cause User B to be added as a member of the group. The group machine readable code module can provide and or broadcast to all members of the group a list of current members of the group including the newly added User B. In some implementations User B can perform one or more actions with respect to some or all of the current members of the group. Likewise one or more other members of the group can perform one or more actions with respect to the newly added User B.

Furthermore in this example User C can also utilize a QR code scanner on his or her computing device to read or scan the QR code presented by User A s computing device . Upon scanning or reading the QR code by User C s computing device the group machine readable code module can cause User C to be added as a member of the group. The group machine readable code module can provide and or broadcast to all members of the group an updated list of current members of the group including the newly added User C. In some implementations User C can perform one or more actions with respect to some or all of the current members of the group. Similarly other members of the group can perform actions with respect to the newly added User C.

In the example of the QR code can represent or be associated with a group that is created and or managed by User A a host user of the group. In this example the QR code can initially be provided presented and or displayed by the computing device of User A the host user. User B can utilize his or her computing device to scan or read the QR code provided by User A s device . The scanning or reading of the QR code by User B s computing device can cause the group machine readable code module on the server system to add User B to the group.

In some embodiments as shown in the example of the QR code can be further provided presented and or displayed by User B s computing device subsequent to the scanning of the QR code by User B. Continuing with this example in some instances User C can also utilize his or her computing device to read or scan the QR code provided presented and or displayed by User B s computing device . Upon reading or scanning the QR code by User C the group machine readable code module on the server system can add User C to the group. In some implementations User C can further provide present and or display the QR code on his or her computing device for one or more other users to scan and be added to the group.

Accordingly User A User B User C and other members of the group can interact with one another by scanning the QR code and joining the group. Upon joining the group User A User B User C and other members can perform one or more actions with respect to one another. More details regarding the one or more actions will be provided below.

In some implementations the machine readable code module can be configured to facilitate receiving from a user a machine readable code associated with a group. For example the user can scan or read the machine readable code and transmit the machine readable code for receipt at the machine readable code module . The machine readable code module will be discussed in more detail with reference to .

The group member module can be configured to facilitate identifying the group based on the machine readable code. Moreover the group member module can be configured to facilitate identifying a set of current members of the group. In some instances the group member module can be further configured to facilitate providing the user with access to the set of current members of the group. More details relating to the group member module will be provided with reference to .

The group action module can be configured to facilitate providing the user with one or more actions to be performed with respect to at least a subset of the set of current members of the group. The group action module will be discussed in more detail with reference to .

Additionally in some embodiments the group member module can be configured to facilitate receiving an identifier for the user. The group member module can add the user based on the identifier to the set of current members of the group. The group member module can also provide the current members with access to the set of current members including the user.

In some embodiments a host user of a group can request a server system to generate a machine readable code that represents links to or is otherwise associated with the group. In some implementations the machine readable code can include at least one of a Quick Response QR code a machine readable barcode or a machine readable tag etc. Other variations can also be used. The code generation module can be configured to facilitate generating or creating the machine readable code that represents links to or is otherwise associated with the group of the host user. For example the host user can provide an address or identifier for the group e.g. a link to a social networking system profile page or timeline of the group . The code generating module can generate or create the machine readable code based on the address or identifier associated with the group. In some embodiments the code generation module can be optionally implemented.

In one example the host user can provide the machine readable code associated with the group to be scanned or read by another user. Upon scanning or reading the machine readable code a computing device or system of the other user can provide or transmit the machine readable code to the machine readable code module . The code acquisition module of the machine readable code module can be configured to acquire or receive from the other user i.e. from his or her computing device the machine readable code associated with the group.

The code processing module can be configured to handle or otherwise process the acquired or received machine readable code. In some instances the code processing module can be configured to parse or otherwise analyze the machine readable code to process the data incorporated within or represented by the machine readable code. In some embodiments the code processing module can be implemented with reside in and or work in conjunction with the group identification module of in order to facilitate identifying the group based on the machine readable code. It should be understood that there can be many possibilities and variations.

The group identification module can be configured to facilitate identifying a group based on a machine readable code. For example the group identification module can determine with which group the machine readable code is associated or which group the machine readable code represents. In some cases the machine readable code can incorporate a set of alphanumeric characters e.g. a string or other data that represents an identifier or address for the group. The group identification module can determine an identification of the group based on the set of alphanumeric characters or other data.

In some embodiments the group identification module can be implemented with reside in and or work in conjunction with the code processing module of in order to facilitate identifying the group based on the machine readable code. Many variations are possible.

As discussed previously in some cases an identifier can be received for a user who scanned the machine readable code. The user identification module can be configured to facilitate receiving the identifier for the user and to facilitate identifying the user based on the identifier. The identifier for the user can include for example at least one of a unique identifier UID a universally unique identifier UUID a social networking identifier an address or a link etc. Moreover the user can be added based on the identifier to the set of current members of the group. When the current members are provided with access to the set of current members the set of current members can include the user.

The broadcast module can be configured to facilitate providing the current members with access to the set of current members. In some implementations providing the current members with access to the set can correspond to one or more push operations. For example in some cases whenever a new user is added to the set of current members of the group the broadcast module can broadcast or provide to the current members a list of the current members including the new user. The broadcasting or providing of the list can be performed via one or more push operations. Also it is contemplated that there can be other possibilities. In some implementations one or more pull operations can be used to provide the list of the current members.

In some embodiments subsequent to the providing or broadcasting of the set of current members to the user the set of current members of the group can be presented to the user via a computing device of the user. In some cases the presented set of current members can be sorted based on at least one of time e.g. time of joining the group an alphabetical order e.g. alphabetical order by name or a social network graph rank relative to the user e.g. a social network relatedness metric relative to the user . Again many variations are possible.

As discussed above subsequent to the user who scanned the machine readable code being added to the group the user can be provided with one or more actions to be performed with respect to at least a subset of the set of current members of the group. In some instances the user can be provided with one or more actions to be performed with respect to an entirety of the set of current members excluding the user. Also in some cases the other current members of the group can be provided with one or more actions to be performed with respect to the newly added user. The group action module can be configured to facilitate providing the user with one or more actions to be performed with respect to the at least the subset or the entirety of the set of current members of the group. The group action module can be further configured to facilitate providing the other current members with one or more actions to be performed with respect to the newly added user.

In some implementations the host user can set or specify which actions are available. In one example the host user can specify that the group is for accessing one or more resources. Thus the current members of the group can perform actions associated with accessing or sharing resources e.g. data files etc. . In another example the host user can specify that the group is for providing social connection functionality. Accordingly the social connection component can enable current members of the group to add one another as social network connections request to add one another as social network connections remove or cancel one another from being social network connections and or ignore requests for social networking connections etc.

In another example the group can be for communicating or messaging. As such the communications component can enable current members to communicate with one another via messages e.g. group text chat conversations e.g. group voice chat etc.

In a further example the group can be associated with an event. The event component can enable current members to interact with one another in relation to an event. Members can for example RSVP to the event decline to attend the event view a guest list for the event and or invite others to the event etc.

In another example the group can be associated with a social group such as a group within a social networking system or an online forum. The social group component can enable current members to interact with one another in the social group.

In a further example the game component can enable current members to interact with respect to a game. In another example the campaign component can enable current members to interact with respect to a campaign such as a marketing campaign a political campaign etc. In another example current members can interact with respect to a page such as a social networking page or timeline. It should be appreciated that many variations are possible.

In the example of the computing system can be running an application. The application can present or display a QR code representing the group of the host user User A. The QR code can be presented on the display element for other users to scan or read.

Furthermore as a member of the group User A can be provided with a set of current members of the group . In some cases the QR code and the set of current members can be provided on the display element at least temporarily in conjunction. In some implementations a description for the group can also be presented. The description can provide information about the group.

User A can set specify and perform one or more group actions with respect to at least some of the current members. In this example the current members of the group can add one another as social connections or friends. As shown in User A has already added User B as a friend but has yet to add User C and User D as friends.

In some instances it must first be determined that a user who scanned the QR code satisfies one or more specified criteria before he or she is allowed to join the group and is provided with access to the set of current members of the group. The one or more specified criteria can be set or defined by at least one of a system setting or an instruction from the host user. In some embodiments the host user can be provided with one or more options via an interface element . In one example the one or more specified criteria can be set or defined by the host user via the one or more options accessible through the interface element . In some cases the one or more specified criteria can be associated with at least one of a time limitation a location or proximity limitation a privacy limitation or a limitation relating to a number of times the machine readable code is scanned etc. Many variations are possible.

In the example of User B can be running an application e.g. the same application as that of User A in on his or her computing system . The application can utilize the camera of User B s computing system to scan or read the QR code presented on the display element of User A s computing system . Subsequent to scanning or reading the QR code User B can be added to the group. As one of the current members of the group User B can be provided with access to the set of current members of the group . Also in some embodiments the application can present a QR code for the group on User B s computing system . The QR code can be the same as the QR code of .

At block the example method can receive from a user a machine readable code associated with a group. For example the user can scan or read the machine readable code using a machine readable code scanner tool. The user can then cause the machine readable code or data representing the machine readable code to be transmitted for receipt.

At block the example method can identify the group based on the machine readable code. For example the machine readable code can incorporate data that represents an identifier a link or an address for the group. The machine readable code can be looked up via a table e.g. a look up table or other data store in order to identify the group.

At block the example method can identify a set of current members of the group. For example there can be a data store which stores and maintains a respective set of current members for each of a plurality of groups. The example method can identify the desired group based on the machine readable code and then identify the corresponding set of current members for that group.

At block the example method can provide the user with access to the set of current members of the group. For example the example method can transmit or deliver at least a subset of the set of current members of the group to the user i.e. to the user s computing device . The set of current members or the at least the subset thereof can be presented or displayed to the user.

At block the example method can receive an identifier for the user. For example the method can receive a unique identifier UID a universally unique identifier UUID a social networking identifier an address or a link etc. associated with the user.

At block the example method can add the user based on the identifier to the set of current members of the group. For example the method can add the identifier for the user to the set of current members of the group.

At block the example method can provide the current members with access to the set of current members including the user. In some cases when the user is added to the set the method can push to the current members at least a subset of the set of current members including the user.

In some embodiments the machine readable code can be presented via a computing device of the user in conjunction at least temporarily with at least a subset of the set of current members of the group that is also presented via the computing device of the user.

In some embodiments the machine readable code presented via the computing device of the user can be scanned using a code scanner tool by at least a second user.

In some embodiments a second identifier can be received for the second user. The second user can be added based on the second identifier to the set of current members of the group. The current members can be provided with access to the set of current members including the second user.

In some embodiments the group can be associated with at least one of a social networking system a forum a meeting or an event.

Again it is contemplated that there can be many other uses applications and or variations associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example various embodiments of the present disclosure can learn improve and or be refined over time.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 702.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure. The social networking system may be administered managed or controlled by an operator. The operator of the social networking system may be a human being an automated application or a series of applications for managing content regulating policies and collecting usage metrics within the social networking system . Any type of operator may be used.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log and an authorization server . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

In some embodiments the social networking system can include a group machine readable code module . The group machine readable code module can for example be implemented as the group machine readable code module of and and or as the group machine readable code module of . The group machine readable code module can be configured to receive from a user a machine readable code associated with a group. The group machine readable code module can also be configured to identify the group based on the machine readable code. Further the group machine readable code module can be configured to identify a set of current members of the group. Moreover the group machine readable code module can be configured to provide the user with access to the set of current members of the group. Other features of the group machine readable code module are discussed herein in connection with the group machine readable code module and or the group machine readable code module .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Moreover the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor . In various implementations a module or modules can be executed by a processor or multiple processors in one or multiple locations such as multiple servers in a parallel processing environment.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments some embodiments various embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

