---

title: Method for detecting content based on recognition area and electronic device thereof
abstract: An electronic device and method of operation an electronic device are provided. The method include acquiring, by the electronic device, at least one first image before a focus setup is performed by an image taking module connected to the electronic device, detecting a first content related to the acquired at least one first image, setting a recognition area, based on a result of the detection of the first content, such that the recognition area includes the first content, acquiring a focus-set second image from the image taking module, detecting a second content related to the second image based on the recognition area, and expressing the second content through a display connected to the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628716&OS=09628716&RS=09628716
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09628716
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150330
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Apr. 4 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0040404 the entire content disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and method for detecting a content based on a recognition area.

The development of functions of electronic devices has made it possible to utilize content stored in an electronic device while inputting a specific character or a telephone number for example to the electronic device. For example when a telephone number has been stored in an electronic device in an image type the user need not manually input the telephone number to the electronic device but only has to execute a telephone application and recall the stored image thereby making it more convenient for the user to make a phone call. In addition the electronic device provides the user with preview data in order to set a recognition area using a frame which has been received in real time from an optical character recognition OCR engine when a character recognition function is executed.

When an OCR engine is provided in a conventional electronic device that recognizes preview data through a camera module there are problems concerning the character recognition ratio power consumption and the processing rate resulting from the OCR operation. For example when recognizing preview data the electronic device generally sets an overall area or sets an area of a fixed size and the resulting unnecessary area recognition degrades recognition performance or increases power consumption.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device and method for performing content detection regarding a focused image based on a recognition area that has been set based on a preview image before focusing thereby increasing a calculation efficiency of content detection regarding the focused image.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device and method for performing content detection regarding some preview images from among a plurality of preview images before focusing in order to set a recognition area thereby reducing power consumption for content detection regarding preview images.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device and method for performing content detection for recognition area setup when there is no information stored in connection with a recognition area in which content recognition has previously succeeded thereby reducing power consumption for content detection for recognition area setup.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes acquiring at least one first image before a focus setup is performed by an image taking module connected to the electronic device detecting a first content related to the acquired at least one first image setting a recognition area based on a result of the detection of the first content related to the first image such that the recognition area includes the first content acquiring a focus set second image from the image taking module detecting a second content related to the second image based on the recognition area and expressing the second content through a display connected to the electronic device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an image taking module configured to generate at least one first image before performing a focus setting and to generate a focus set second image and a content detection module connected to the image taking module and implemented as a processor wherein the content detection module is configured to detect a first content related to the generated at least one first image to set a recognition area based on a result of the detection of the first content related to the at least one first image such that the recognition area includes the first content to detect a second content related to the second image based on the recognition area and to express the second content through a display connected to the electronic device.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

In the present disclosure the expressions include and or may include refer to existence of a corresponding function operation or element and does not limit one or more additional functions operations or elements. Also as used herein the terms include and or have should be construed to denote a certain feature number step operation element component or a combination thereof and should not be construed to exclude the existence or possible addition of one or more other features numbers steps operations elements components or combinations thereof.

Also as used here the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

In the present disclosure the expressions a first a second the first the second and the like may modify various elements but the corresponding elements are not limited by these expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding elements. The above expressions may be used merely for the purpose of distinguishing one element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element may be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

When an element is referred to as being coupled and or connected to any other element it should be understood that not only the element may be directly coupled or connected to the other element but also a third element may be interposed therebetween. Contrarily when a element is referred to as being directly coupled or directly connected to any other element it should be understood that no element is interposed therebetween.

The terms used herein are used only to describe particular embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical and scientific terms have the same meaning as those commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meaning equal to the contextual meaning in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meaning unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera and a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo and a smart watch .

According to various embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions digital video disc DVD players audio players refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwaves washing machines air purifiers set top boxes TV boxes e.g. HomeSync of Samsung Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders or electronic frames.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of various medical appliances e.g. magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography CT and ultrasonic machines navigation equipment a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR automotive infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an automatic teller machine ATM of a banking system and a point of sales POS of a shop.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like . The electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Also the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Further it is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the term user may indicate a person using an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

Referring to a network environment is illustrated where the network environment includes an electronic device and where the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a character recognition engine .

The bus may be a circuit for connecting the aforementioned elements and transmitting communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned elements.

For example the processor may receive instructions from the aforementioned other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display and or the communication interface through the bus decipher the received instructions and perform calculation or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory may store instructions or data received from or generated by the processor or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display and or the communication interface . The memory may include programming modules such as for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and or applications . The aforementioned programming modules may be formed of software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor and or the memory used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API and or the applications . In addition the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API and or the applications may control or manage the individual elements of the electronic device while accessing the individual elements.

The middleware may serve as an intermediary enabling the API and or the applications to transfer data through communication with the kernel . Furthermore in regard to task requests received from the applications the middleware may perform a control e.g. scheduling and or load balancing for the task requests using a method such as allocating at least one of the applications a priority for using the system resources e.g. the bus the processor and the memory of the electronic device .

The API is an interface through which the applications may control functions provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control image processing or text control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the applications may include a short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. application for measuring the amount of exercise and or blood glucose an environment information application e.g. application for providing information regarding the atmospheric pressure humidity and or temperature or the like. Additionally or alternatively the applications may include an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device . The application related to the exchange of information may include for example a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring to the external electronic device for example the electronic device notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application an environmental information application and the like . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and provide the received notification information to a user.

For example the device management application may manage e.g. install delete and or update functions for at least a part of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device communicating with the electronic device e.g. turning on off the external electronic device itself or some elements thereof and or adjusting brightness or resolution of a display applications operating in the external electronic device and or services e.g. a telephone call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the applications may include an application designated according to the attribute of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device such as the kind of the electronic device. For example in a case where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the applications may include an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the applications may include an application related to the health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the applications may include at least one from among an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device e.g. a server and or the electronic device .

The input output interface may transfer instructions or data input from a user through an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard and or a touch screen to the processor the memory and or the communication interface through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may provide to the processor data regarding a user s touch input through the touch screen. In addition through the input output device e.g. a speaker and or a display the input output interface may output instructions or data received from the processor the memory and or the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to a user through a speaker.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC GPS and cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro and Global System for Mobile communication GSM . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol data link layer protocol and or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the applications the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

The character recognition engine can recognize a content included in at least one recognition area from among a currently set recognition area a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation a recognition area stored at the latest previous time and a combination thereof.

Referring to and electronic device is illustrated where the electronic device may constitute for example all or some of the electronic device illustrated in . Specifically the electronic device may include at least one AP application processor a communication module a SIM subscriber identification module card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control a plurality of hardware and or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and perform processing of various pieces of data including multimedia data and calculations. The AP may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface as illustrated in may perform data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device and or the server as illustrated in connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call an SMS and or an Internet service through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro and or GSM . Furthermore the cellular module may distinguish between and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network by using for example a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least a part of the functions that may be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP not illustrated . Furthermore the cellular module may be implemented by for example an SoC. Although elements such as the memory or the power management module are illustrated as separate elements from the AP the AP may be implemented to include at least a part e.g. cellular module of the above mentioned elements according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP and or the cellular module e.g. communication processor may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other elements connected thereto into a volatile memory and process the loaded command. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although each of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module is illustrated as a separate block at least a part e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in a single integrated chip IC or an IC package according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. For example at least a part e.g. the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented as a single SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire or the like. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as sharing a single RF module among them at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may perform transmission reception of RF signals through a separate RF module according to an embodiment.

The SIM card may be cards including subscriber identification modules and may be inserted into slots formed on the electronic device at specific locations. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID and or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . For example the SIM card may include n SIM cards n being any integer .

The memory for example the memory may include an internal memory and or an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic random access memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM and a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable read only memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a not and NAND flash memory and a not or NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity and or detect an operation state of the electronic device and convert the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a red green and blue RGB sensor H for example a color sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K for example an illumination sensor and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an electromyography EMG sensor not illustrated an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not illustrated an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not illustrated an Infrared IR sensor an iris sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor involved therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a pen sensor a key and or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive type physical contact or proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

The pen sensor may be implemented for example using the same or similar method to receiving a user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet.

The ultrasonic input device may identify data by detecting an acoustic wave with a microphone e.g. microphone of the electronic device through an input tool that generates an ultrasonic signal and may perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may also receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or a server connected thereto by using the communication module .

The display e.g. the display as illustrated in may include a panel a hologram device and or a projector .

The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be integrated with the touch panel .

The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be located for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub .

The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a SD Multi Media Card MMC interface and or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and an electronic signal. At least some elements of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface as illustrated in . The audio module may process sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones and or a microphone .

The camera module is a device for capturing a still image or a video and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not illustrated an Image Signal Processor ISP not illustrated and or a flash not illustrated e.g. an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC and or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted in for example an IC or an SoC semiconductor. The charging methods may be divided into a wired type and a wireless type. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from being introduced from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic scheme may be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier circuit may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific status of the electronic device or a part for example the AP thereof for example a booting status a message status a charging status and the like.

The motor may convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit for example a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing device for supporting mobile TV may process media data according to standards such as for example a digital multimedia broadcasting DMB a digital video broadcasting DVB or a media flow.

Each of the elements of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding element may vary depending on the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may be configured by including at least one of the above described elements and some of the elements may be omitted or other elements may be added. Further some of the elements of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be combined to be one entity which can perform the same functions as those of the components before the combination.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known or are to be developed hereinafter.

An electronic device may include an image taking module configured to generate at least one first image before performing a focus setting and to generate a focus set second image and a content detection module connected to the image taking module and implemented as a processor wherein the content detection module is configured to detect a first content related to the generated at least one first image to set a recognition area based on a result of the detection of the first content related to the at least one first image such that the recognition area includes the first content to detect a second content related to the second image based on the recognition area and to express the second content through a display connected to the electronic device.

The first image may be at least one of a plurality of preview images generated while a lens of the image taking module is moving for the focus setup.

The content detection module may be an electronic device configured to determine when information stored in connection with a recognition area in which a content recognition has succeeded before the first image is acquired is deemed to exist the recognition area based on the information without performing the detection of the first content.

The content detection module may be an electronic device configured to set when the first content has been detected a corresponding one from among a horizontal length and a vertical length of the first content based on at least one from among the horizontal length and the vertical length of the first content and when the first content has not been detected to set at least one from among the horizontal length and the vertical length of the first content as a specified value.

The content detection module may be an electronic device configured to store information related to the recognition area when the second content has been detected and when the second content has not been detected to reset information related to the recognition area to a specified value.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some of the devices for example modules or functions thereof or the method for example operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented by a command stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium in a programming module form. When the command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

The non transitory computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disc a floppy disc and a magnetic tape optical media such as a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and a DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specifically configured to store and execute program commands such as a ROM a RAM and a flash memory. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of the present disclosure and vice versa.

The programming module according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned elements or may further include other additional elements or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a storage medium storing commands that have been set to perform when executed by at least one processor at least one operation by means of the at least one processor may be provided and the at least one operation may include the operations of acquiring by an electronic device at least one first image before a focus setup is performed by an image taking module connected to the electronic device detecting a first content related to the acquired at least one first image setting a recognition area based on a result of detection of a first content such that the recognition area includes the first content acquiring a focus set second image from the image taking module detecting a second content related to the second image based on the recognition area and expressing the second content through a display connected to the electronic device.

For example an electronic device may calculate a recognition area for detecting contents between a release step and a focusing step. According to various embodiments the release step refers to a step in which the lens of the camera module does not move and the focusing step refers to a step in which the lens of the camera module that has not operated moves to make a focus. More specifically when sensing a focusing step the electronic device may approximately calculate a recognition area using only at least one frame among preview data regarding a content that is being transmitted in real time.

For example a case will be described in which the electronic device senses a movement of the camera module and then confirms entry into a focusing step in which the lens moves from a release step. In the above mentioned example the electronic device may approximately calculate a recognition area for detecting a content which is to be detected by the electronic device using only one initial frame at the time of entry into a focusing step. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may calculate a recognition area using only one initial frame at the time of entry into a focusing step among data regarding a content that is being transmitted in real time and may not process preview data that is being transmitted in real time.

As another example the electronic device may approximately calculate a recognition area for detecting a content which is to be detected by the electronic device using only one frame after a preset time since the time of entry into a focusing step. According to various embodiments the electronic device may calculate a recognition area using only one frame after a preset time since the time of entry into a focusing step among data regarding a content that is being transmitted in real time and may not process preview data that is being transmitted in real time.

Referring to an embodiment of the present disclosure wherein an electronic device approximately calculates a recognition area upon entering a focusing step will be described. For example a case will now be described in which the electronic device is to detect content Samsung electronics on a part of a document as illustrated in .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a command that instructs execution of a camera module provided on the electronic device and confirm entry from a release step in which the lens does not move to a focusing step which occurs in a process of moving to a corresponding content in order to detect content Samsung electronics and a process of making a focus after the movement.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether the recognition area is identical to the default recognition area or not when the electronic device has entered a focusing step which occurs in a process of making a focus in order to detect content Samsung electronics. As used herein the default recognition area refers to an area set by the user or the manufacturer and may also be the full screen. In addition when no content can be recognized in the default recognition area recognition is impossible. In addition the recognition area may be an area set by the electronic device to recognize a content. When the electronic device determines that the recognition area is identical to the default recognition area the electronic device may recognize characters using an optical character reader module or an optical character reader engine which is provided in the electronic device assuming that the default recognition area is the recognition area.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether a content which is included in a recognition area that is identical to the default recognition area has been detected or not.

Referring to an electronic device may determine whether content electronics has been detected with reference to a point or not as a result of recognizing content Samsung electronics included in a recognition area using the optical character reader module for example. When the electronic device determines that a content has been detected as a result of recognizing a content included in the recognition area the electronic device may set the recognition area to be at least longer than the vertical length of the detected content. Herein a indicates the vertical length of the recognition area .

Referring to a case will now be described in which content Samsung electronics has been detected as a result of recognizing content Samsung electronics during a focusing step while a recognition area of an electronic device is set to be identical to the default recognition area.

For example the electronic device may recognize the content during the focusing step before the focusing step is completed as illustrated in .

In the above mentioned example the electronic device may set the recognition area of the default recognition area which is the initial recognition area to be at least longer than the vertical length of the detected content. According to various embodiments the electronic device may set the recognition area again by making it at least longer than the vertical length b of a content detected approximately in a focusing step. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the recognition area may be set again to have a height corresponding to the vertical length b of a content detected by the electronic device.

When the electronic device has detected no character as a result of recognizing a content included in the recognition area the electronic device may set the default recognition area as the recognition area and may not process character preview data that is being transmitted in real time until the focusing step ends.

When the electronic device determines that the recognition area is not identical to the default recognition area the electronic device may instantly end the present embodiment for approximately calculating the recognition area. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure determination by the electronic device that the recognition area is not identical to the default recognition area means that the recognition area is set based on information height length etc. regarding a recognition area in which recognition has recently succeeded.

Further according to various embodiments the electronic device according to the present disclosure may variably use at least one recognition area from among an initially set default recognition area a newly set recognition area a recognition area in which character detection has succeeded at the latest previous time and a combination thereof as a recognition area for recognizing a content. Accordingly the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is advantageous in that the recognition area which is used to recognize a content is minimized thereby improving recognition performance. According to various embodiments the electronic device is advantageous in that since only one frame is used among preview data which is being transmitted in real time in the focusing step current consumption can be reduced.

For example when an electronic device senses a completion of a focusing step the electronic device may recognize a content which is displayed on the display module of the electronic device using a variably changed recognition area. According to various embodiments the electronic device may recognize a content displayed on the display module through the optical character reader module for example provided in the electronic device using at least one recognition area from among a default area a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation a recognition area in which content detection has succeeded at the latest previous time and a combination thereof.

Referring to for example in order for an electronic device to recognize content Samsung electronics recognition areas calculated during a focusing operation have been set as recognition areas and . According to various embodiments the electronic device may recognize characters Samsung electronics using an optical character reader module for example. For example a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation in a recognition area of the initial default recognition area may be recognition area in which only the vertical length of a content is considered and or may be recognition area in which the horizontal length of the content is also considered.

Referring to in order for an electronic device to recognize content Samsung electro mechanics recognition areas and in which content detection has succeeded at the latest previous time have been set as recognition areas. According to various embodiments the electronic device may recognize characters Samsung electro mechanics using an optical character reader module for example. In this connection a recognition area in which content detection has succeeded at the latest previous time during a focusing operation in a recognition area of the initial default recognition area may be recognition area in which only the vertical length of a content is considered and or may be recognition area in which the horizontal length of the content is also considered.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether a content can be detected in a recognition area by using one recognition area from among a default recognition area a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation and a recognition area in which content detection has succeeded at the latest previous time. When the electronic device determines that a content has been detected in the recognition area the electronic device may perform an operation according to content recognition.

For example when an electronic device senses completion of the focusing step the electronic device may recognize a content which is displayed on the display module of the electronic device using a variably changed recognition area. According to various embodiments the electronic device may recognize a content displayed on the display module through the optical character reader module for example provided in the electronic device using at least one recognition area from among a default recognition area a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation a recognition area in which content detection has succeeded at the latest previous time and a combination thereof.

Referring to for example in order for the electronic device to recognize characters Samsung electronics recognition areas calculated during a focusing operation and or recognition areas in which content detection has succeeded at the latest previous time have been set as recognition areas and . According to various embodiments the electronic device may recognize a content displayed on the electronic device using an optical character reader module for example. For example recognition areas and are set in a recognition area of the initial default recognition area and may be recognition area in which only the vertical length is considered and or may be recognition area in which the horizontal length of the content is also considered.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether content recognition has succeeded or not by using one recognition area from among a default recognition area a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation and a recognition area in which content detection has succeeded at the latest previous time. When the electronic device determines that content recognition has not succeeded the electronic device may set the default recognition area as the recognition area and repeat the process of recognizing a displayed content.

Referring to when content recognition has failed because the currently set recognition area is smaller than the content as illustrated in the electronic device may set a default recognition area as the recognition area and repeat a process for recognizing content Samsung electronics displayed on the display module of the electronic device.

For example an electronic device may calculate a recognition area for detecting a content between a release step and a focusing step. According to various embodiments when the electronic device has sensed a focusing step the electronic device may calculate a recognition area using only one frame among preview data regarding a content that is being transmitted in real time. Hereinafter an embodiment of recognizing a barcode by an electronic device will be described in detail.

The electronic device may receive a command that instructs execution of a camera module provided on the electronic device and confirm entry from a release step in which the lens does not move to a focusing step which occurs in a process of moving to a place where the corresponding barcode is displayed order to detect the barcode and a process of making a focus after the movement.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether the recognition area is identical to the default recognition area or not when the electronic device has entered a focusing step which occurs in a process of making a focus in order to detect a barcode. When the electronic device determines that the currently set recognition area is identical to the default recognition area the electronic device may determine whether a barcode which is included in a recognition area set to be identical to the default recognition area has been detected or not.

Referring to an electronic device may determine whether a barcode displayed on the electronic device has been detected or not as a result of recognizing a barcode which is included in a recognition area using an optical character reader module. Herein a indicates the vertical length of the recognition area .

When the electronic device determines that a barcode has been detected as a result of recognizing a content included in the recognition area the electronic device may set the recognition area to be at least longer than a vertical length of the detected content. A case will now be described in which a barcode has been detected as a result of recognizing a barcode during a focusing step in the recognition area which is identical to the default recognition area by the electronic device as illustrated in for example.

For example the electronic device may recognize the content during the focusing step before the focusing step is completed as illustrated in .

In the above mentioned example the electronic device may set the recognition area to be at least longer than the vertical length of the detected barcode. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may set the recognition area by making it at least longer than the vertical length b of a barcode detected approximately in a focusing step. For example the recognition area may be set again to have a height corresponding to the vertical length b of a barcode detected by the electronic device.

When the electronic device has detected no barcode as a result of recognizing a barcode included in the recognition area the electronic device may set the default recognition area as the recognition area and may not process barcode preview data that is being transmitted in real time until the focusing step ends. According to various embodiments when the electronic device determines that the currently set recognition area is not identical to the default recognition area the electronic device may instantly end the present embodiment for approximately calculating the recognition area.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the electronic device senses completion of the focusing step the electronic device may recognize a barcode which is displayed on the display module of the electronic device using a variably changed recognition area. According to various embodiments the electronic device may recognize a barcode displayed on the display module through the optical character reader module for example provided in the electronic device using at least one recognition area from among a default recognition area a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation a recognition area in which barcode detection has succeeded at the latest previous time and a combination thereof.

Referring to for example in order for an electronic device to recognize a barcode recognition areas calculated during a focusing operation or recognition areas in which barcode detection has succeeded at a latest previous time have been set as recognition areas and .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may recognize a barcode using an optical character reader module for example. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether a recognized barcode has been detected or not by using one recognition area from among a default recognition area a recognition area calculated during a focusing operation and a recognition area in which barcode detection has succeeded at the latest previous time. When the electronic device determines that a recognized barcode has been detected the electronic device may perform an operation according to barcode recognition.

Referring to a flowchart is illustrated such that in operation an electronic device may receive preview data. According to various embodiments the electronic device may receive preview data which is obtained by photographing a content to be recognized in real time while the camera module is operating.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether switching has occurred from a release operation to a focusing operation. According to various embodiments the electronic device may determine whether switching has occurred from a release step in which the lens of the camera module provided on the electronic device does not move to a focusing step in which the lens moves to make a focus. If the switching has not occurred in operation the electronic device will continue to perform operation .

In operation when the electronic device has determined that switching has occurred from the release operation to the focusing operation the electronic device may determine whether the currently set recognition area is identical to the default area or not. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether a recognition area for recognizing a content is identical to the default area or not.

When the electronic device has determined that the currently set recognition area is identical to the default recognition area the electronic device may recognize a content included in the currently set recognition area by using an optical character reader module in operation . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the electronic device has sensed a focusing step the electronic device may recognize a content which is included in the currently set recognition area through an optical character reader module by using only one frame among preview data regarding a content that is being transmitted in real time.

Next in operation the electronic device may determine whether a content which is included in the currently set recognition area has been detected or not. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether a content included in the currently set recognition area i.e. the default recognition area has been detected or not as a result of recognition through an optical character reader module.

When the electronic device has determined that a content included in the currently set recognition area has been detected in operation the electronic device may change the currently set recognition area to a recognition area which has been calculated during a focusing operation to reflect the vertical length of the confirmed content in operation . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may change the recognition area in order to reduce current consumption by the electronic device and improve the content recognition ratio. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may change the currently set recognition area to a recognition area which has been calculated during a focusing operation to reflect the horizontal length of the confirmed content.

When the electronic device has determined that no content included in the currently set recognition area has been detected in operation the electronic device may store the currently set recognition area default recognition area in operation . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may store the default recognition area as the recognition area when no content has been detected and use the default recognition area as a recognition area for recognizing a content when the focusing operation ends.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the electronic device determines that the currently set recognition area is not identical to the default recognition area in the above mentioned determining operation the electronic device may instantly end the present embodiment for calculating the recognition area. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure determination by the electronic device that the currently set recognition area is not identical to the default recognition area means that a recognition area in which content recognition has succeeded at the latest previous time will be used.

Referring to a flowchart is illustrated such that in operation an electronic device may determine whether the focusing operation has been completed or not. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether focusing of a content to be recognized has succeeded or not after the focusing step in which the lens moves to make a focus is ended.

When the electronic device determines that the focusing operation has not been completed in operation the electronic device continues to perform operation .

When the electronic device determines that the focusing operation has been completed in operation the electronic device may recognize a content included in at least one recognition area from among the currently set recognition area a recognition area calculated during the focusing operation a recognition area stored at the latest previous time and a combination thereof by using an optical character reader module in operation . According to various embodiments when the electronic device has determined that a content included in the at least one recognition area has been detected the electronic device may perform an operation according to content recognition.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether a content which is included in the at least one recognition area has been detected or not. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether a content included in at least one recognition area from among the currently set recognition area a recognition area calculated during the focusing operation a recognition area stored at the latest previous time and a combination thereof has been detected or not by using an optical character reader module.

When the electronic device has determined that no content included in at least one recognition area has been detected in operation the electronic device may store the currently set recognition area in operation . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may store the default recognition area which is the currently set recognition area as the recognition area.

When the electronic device has determined that a content included in at least one recognition area has been detected as a result of determination in operation the electronic device may perform an operation according to content recognition.

Referring to in operation at least one first image before focus setup may be acquired through an image taking module functionally connected to the electronic device.

In operation the recognition area may be set based on a result of detection of a first content related to the first image such that the recognition area includes the first content.

In operation a second content associated with the second image may be detected based on the recognition area.

In operation a content of the electronic device which includes an operation of expressing the second content through a display functionally connected to the electronic device may be detected.

The method may include the operations of acquiring at least one first image before focus setup through an image taking module functionally connected to an electronic device setting a recognition area based on a result of detection of a first content related to the first image such that the recognition area includes the first content acquiring a focus set second image through the image taking module detecting a second content related to the second image based on the recognition area and expressing the second content through a display functionally connected to the electronic device.

In the operation of acquiring the at least one first image at least one of a plurality of preview images generated while a lens of the image taking module is moving for the focus setup may be acquired as the at least one first image.

Each of the first content and the second content may be at least one from among a character a QR code and a barcode.

The setting operation may include the operations of determining whether or not there is information stored in connection with a recognition area in which a content recognition has succeeded before the first image is acquired and determining the recognition area when it is determined that the information exists based on the information without performing the detection of the first content.

The setting operation may include an operation of setting when the first content has been detected a corresponding one from among a horizontal length and a vertical length of the first content based on at least one of the horizontal length and the vertical length of the first content.

The setting operation may include the operations of detecting the first content based on a recognition area set based on a specified value and reducing the recognition area based on at least one of the horizontal length and the vertical length of the first content.

The setting operation may include an operation of setting when the first content has not been detected at least one of the horizontal length and the vertical length of the recognition area as a specified value.

The detecting operation may include an operation of recognizing a second content which is included in the recognition area using an optical character reader module connected to the electronic device.

The detecting operation may include an operation of storing information related to the recognition area when the second content has been detected.

The detecting operation may include an operation of resetting information related to the recognition area to a specified value when the second content has not been detected.

The detecting operation may include the operations of resetting the recognition area when the second content has not been detected based on a specified value and detecting the second content from the second image based on the reset recognition area.

The expressing operation may include an operation of adding a specified visual effect to a part of the second image which corresponds to the second content and displaying the specified visual effect or displaying a third content which is associated with the second content in a display area which is separated from or overlaps the second image.

The third content may include at least one from among a dictionary content a web content and a multimedia content which are related to the content.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

