---

title: Interactive athletic equipment system
abstract: Systems and techniques for the collection and display of athletic information. Athletic data relating to a single person or group of people is collected at a central location, and subsequently displayed at a desired remote location so that the person or people can review and critique their performance. In addition, athletic data for multiple persons can be collected at a central location, and subsequently displayed to a user at a desired remote location, so that the user can compare his or her athletic activities to others.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09278256&OS=09278256&RS=09278256
owner: Nike, Inc.
number: 09278256
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150529
---
The present application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 14 521 676 titled INTERACTIVE ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT SYSTEM and filed on Oct. 23 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 082 893 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 882 639 titled INTERACTIVE ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT SYSTEM and filed on Nov. 18 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 334 781 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 585 555 titled INTERACTIVE ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT SYSTEM and filed on Dec. 22 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 397 061 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 088 044 titled INTERACTIVE ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT SYSTEM and filed on Mar. 3 2009 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 033 355 filed on Mar. 3 2008. The contents of the above noted applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and made a part hereof.

The present invention relates to the collection and display of athletic information. Some aspects of the invention have particular applicability to the collection of athletic information over a network and displaying the collected information.

While most people appreciate the importance of physical fitness many have difficulty finding the motivation required to maintain a regular exercise program. Some people find it particularly difficult to maintain an exercise regimen that involves continuously repetitive motions such as running walking and bicycling.

Experienced athletes and trainers have found that feedback provides many people with motivation to maintain a regular exercise program. When a person can directly experience the results provided by an exercise program that person typically will be encouraged to continue exercising. Unfortunately the physical improvements obtained from exercise often come too slowly to provide sufficient motivation for many people to maintain a regular exercise program. It would therefore be useful for many athletes to have a more immediate visual type of feedback to provide motivation for regular exercise.

Many experienced athletes and trainers also have found that competition may provide an even stronger motivation to maintain a regular exercise program. Some athletes for example will be more motivated to exercise when competing against a partner than by exercising alone. These athletes may for example exercise with a partner enter into athletic contests such as races or even just compare their current performance ability with a friend s.

Various aspects of the invention relate to the collection and display of athletic information. With some implementations of the invention athletic data relating to a single person is collected and displayed so that the person can fully critique his or her performance. For example a set of athletic data corresponding to athletic activity performed by a person over a first time period may be displayed as a graph. If the set of athletic data is generated from e.g. a person running or walking then the person s speed may be plotted against his or her distance over the time period for the activity. With some implementations the set of athletic data can be analyzed and the analysis results can be displayed simultaneously with the graph. For example with a set of athletic data obtained from a person running the data can be analyzed to determine the change in speed i.e. acceleration or deceleration between fixed distances first mile second mile etc. . This information can then be displayed with the graph so that the person can review when and how much he or she changed speed during the run.

With still other implementations of the invention a person can compare a set of athletic data with another set of athletic data having a desired characteristic. For example if a selected set of athletic data is generated from e.g. a person running over a particular time period then the person may wish to compare his or her performance for that run with his or her best speed for a similar previous run. Thus if the run covered a distance of e.g. 4 miles earlier sets of athletic data will be analyzed to determine which data sets correspond to runs of approximately 4 miles. The data set having e.g. the highest mean speed can then be identified and data from that previously data set displayed simultaneously with data from the selected data set. For example data from each athletic data set may be plotted as graph and rendered on a display. The person can then compare the selected set of athletic data with the set of athletic data representing his or her best speed in detail.

Still further some implementations may collect sets of athletic data obtained over different time periods and concurrently display data from these sets. Thus if a person has multiple runs over a period of days data from each run may be simultaneously displayed. For example an icon such as a bar or line can be displayed for each data set. A dimension of the icon such as e.g. its height can then correspond to some data in that data set such as the median speed of the run or the total distance traveled over the run. With some implementations data from multiple sets may be aggregated and displayed. For examples runs falling within a specified category e.g. occurring during the same week or month can be grouped together and the total distance data or alternatively the total time data for each data set in a group can be added together. An icon such as a bar or line then can be displayed to represent the sum of the data from each group. A dimension of the icon such as e.g. its height may correspond to the data added together from its corresponding group of data sets.

In addition some examples of the invention may allow a person to specify a goal related to an athletic activity. A person may e.g. set a goal of running a specified total distance within a specified period of time. With these implementations of the invention data from multiple sets of a person s athletic data may be aggregated and displayed in contrast with the person s specified goal. The goal may be displayed for example as an empty shape like an oval. The aggregated data may then be displayed as fill within the empty shape. Thus if the aggregated data shows that the person is within 80 of his or her goal then the shape representing the goal will be displayed as 80 filled.

With some implementations sets of athletic data may be obtained from a plurality of different persons and displayed. For example one or more sets of data from each of a plurality of different persons may be collected. Data from each person s data sets can then be aggregated and displayed to each person. For example a set of athletic data can be generated for each run a person makes. For each person data from his or her data sets such as distance data can be added up. An icon such as a bar or line can then be displayed for each person to represent the sum of the data from his or her data sets. A dimension of the icon such as e.g. its height may correspond to the sum of the data added from each of a person s data sets.

Still further some examples of the invention may allow a person to invite one or more other persons to share athletic data corresponding to their athletic activities. With some implementations of the invention for example a user may send an invitation via electronic mail or a similar electronic medium to one or more other persons. Athletic data from only those invited persons may then be displayed simultaneously as noted above. This arrangement allows each invited person including the inviting host who inherently invites himself or herself and thus is considered an invitee as well to compare his or her current athletic data with the other invitees.

With still other implementations of the invention a person may alternately or additional specify a common goal for the invitees. For example the inviting host may specify a total combined distance that the invitees including the host are to run within a specified amount of time. Data from multiple sets of athletic data for each invitee may be aggregated and displayed in contrast with the person s specified goal. Again the goal may be represented by the display of for example an empty shape like an oval. The data aggregated from each invitee may then be displayed as fill within the empty shape. Thus if the aggregated data shows that the collective athletic activity of the invitees is within 60 of the specified goal then the shape representing the goal will be displayed as 60 filled.

For yet other implementations of the invention the performance data collected from one or more users or athletes may be collected by an athletic device or machine and or displayed on an athletic device or machine console so that the user or athlete may have a substantially real time display of their performance against personal goals benchmarks or milestones. The user or athlete may also have a display of their performance in a competition or challenge.

These and other features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description.

Aspects of the invention relate to the measurement collection and display of athletic information. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art athletic information must first be obtained from an individual person. With various implementations of the invention one or more different athletic information monitoring devices may be used to measure and record athletic data corresponding to athletic activity performed by a person. Typically an athletic information monitoring device will incorporate a sensor for measuring parameters relating to the person being monitored and a computing device for processing the parameters measured by the sensor.

Once an athletic information monitoring device has recorded athletic information for a person s athletic activity the person may then transfer the recorded athletic information to one or more separate devices in order to view the recorded athletic data. A user may for example download the recorded athletic information from an athletic information monitoring device to a separate collection device. The collection device may in turn transfer the athletic information collected from the athletic information monitoring device to a separate display configuration device where the athletic information can be organized and configured for subsequent viewing with e.g. still another device. As will be discussed in more detail below various implementations of the invention will allow a person to record collect and display athletic information using a group of computing devices communicating over a network such as the Internet.

For example some implementations of the invention may allow a person to measure and record athletic information using a special purpose computing device. The user can then transfer the recorded athletic information to a local computing device such as a personal desktop or laptop computer. More particularly a user can download recorded athletic information from the athletic information monitoring device to a collection software tool on a local computer that acts as a client in a computer network. The collection software tool will then transfer the downloaded athletic information through the network to a remote server computer. A display configuration software tool on the remote server computer will then save the transferred athletic information. Later a person can use the client computer or another local computer to retrieve the stored athletic information from the server computer. In response to a display request from a local computer the display configuration software tool will configure the requested athletic information for display on the local computer and then transmit the configured athletic information to the local computer for display.

Various examples of the invention may be implemented using electronic circuitry configured to perform one or more functions. For example with some embodiments of the invention the athletic information monitoring device the collection device the display device or any combination thereof may be implemented using one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs . More typically however components of various examples of the invention will be implemented using a programmable computing device executing firmware or software instructions or by some combination of purpose specific electronic circuitry and firmware or software instructions executing on a programmable computing device.

Accordingly shows one illustrative example of a computer that can be used to implement various embodiments of the invention. As seen in this figure the computer has a computing unit . The computing unit typically includes a processing unit and a system memory . The processing unit may be any type of processing device for executing software instructions but will conventionally be a microprocessor device. The system memory may include both a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art both the read only memory ROM and the random access memory RAM may store software instructions for execution by the processing unit .

The processing unit and the system memory are connected either directly or indirectly through a bus or alternate communication structure to one or more peripheral devices. For example the processing unit or the system memory may be directly or indirectly connected to additional memory storage such as the hard disk drive the removable magnetic disk drive the optical disk drive and the flash memory card . The processing unit and the system memory also may be directly or indirectly connected to one or more input devices and one or more output devices . The input devices may include for example a keyboard touch screen a remote control pad a pointing device such as a mouse touchpad stylus trackball or joystick a scanner a camera or a microphone. The output devices may include for example a monitor display television printer stereo or speakers.

Still further the computing unit will be directly or indirectly connected to one or more network interfaces for communicating with a network. This type of network interface also sometimes referred to as a network adapter or network interface card NIC translates data and control signals from the computing unit into network messages according to one or more communication protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP the Internet Protocol IP and the User Datagram Protocol UDP . These protocols are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed here in more detail. An interface may employ any suitable connection agent for connecting to a network including for example a wireless transceiver a power line adapter a modem or an Ethernet connection.

It should be appreciated that in addition to the input output and storage peripheral devices specifically listed above the computing device may be connected to a variety of other peripheral devices including some that may perform input output and storage functions or some combination thereof. For example the computer may be connected to a digital music player such as an IPOD brand digital music player available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. As known in the art this type of digital music player can server as both an output device for a computer e.g. outputting music from a sound file or pictures from an image file and a storage device. In addition this type of digital music play also can serve as an input device for inputting recorded athletic information as will be discussed in more detail below.

In addition to a digital music player the computer may be connected to or otherwise include one or more other peripheral devices such as a telephone. The telephone may be for example a wireless smart phone. As known in the art this type of telephone communicates through a wireless network using radio frequency transmissions. In addition to simple communication functionality a smart phone may also provide a user with one or more data management functions such as sending receiving and viewing electronic messages e.g. electronic mail messages SMS text messages etc. recording or playing back sound files recording or playing back image files e.g. still picture or moving video image files viewing and editing files with text e.g. Microsoft Word or Excel files or Adobe Acrobat files etc. Because of the data management capability of this type of telephone a user may connect the telephone with the computer so that their data maintained may be synchronized.

Of course still other peripheral devices may be included with our otherwise connected to a computer of the type illustrated in as is well known in the art. In some cases a peripheral device may be permanently or semi permanently connected to the computing unit . For example with many computers the computing unit the hard disk drive the removable optical disk drive and a display are semi permanently encased in a single housing. Still other peripheral devices may be removably connected to the computer however. The computer may include for example one or more communication ports through which a peripheral device can be connected to the computing unit either directly or indirectly through the bus . These communication ports may thus include a parallel bus port or a serial bus port such as a serial bus port using the Universal Serial Bus USB standard or the IEEE 1394 High Speed Serial Bus standard e.g. a Firewire port . Alternately or additionally the computer may include a wireless data port such as a Bluetooth interface a Wi Fi interface an infrared data port or the like.

It should be appreciated that a computing device employed according various examples of the invention may include more components than the computer illustrated in fewer components than the computer or a different combination of components than the computer . Some implementations of the invention for example may employ one or more computing devices that are intended to have a very specific functionality such as a digital music player or server computer. These computing devices may thus omit unnecessary peripherals such as the network interface removable optical disk drive printers scanners external hard drives etc. Some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally employ computing devices that are intended to be capable of a wide variety of functions such as a desktop or laptop personal computer. These computing devices may have any combination of peripheral devices or additional components as desired.

As shown in more detail in the athletic parameter measurement device includes one or more sensors for measuring an athletic parameter associated with a person wearing or otherwise using the athletic parameter measurement device . With the illustrated implementations for example the sensors A and B may be accelerometers such as piezoelectric accelerometers for measuring the acceleration of the athletic parameter measurement device in two orthogonal directions. The athletic parameter measurement device is carried or otherwise worn by a user to measure the desired athletic parameter while the user exercises. For example as shown in the athletic parameter measurement device may be located the sole of a user s shoe while the user walks or runs. With this arrangement the sensors will produce electrical signals corresponding to the movement of the user s foot. As known in the art these signals can then be used to generate athletic data representative of the athletic activity performed by the user.

The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a processor for processing the electrical signals output by the sensors . With some implementations of the invention the processor may be a programmable microprocessor. For still other implementations of the invention however the processor may be a purpose specific circuit device such as an ASIC. The processor may perform any desired operation on the signals output from the sensors such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like. The processor provides the processed signals to a transmitter . The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a power supply for providing power to the sensors the processor and the transmitter as needed. The power supply may be for example a battery.

The athletic parameter measurement device transmits the processed signals to the electronic interface device as seen in . Returning now to the electronic interface device includes a receiver which receives the processed signals transmitted by the transmitter in the athletic parameter measurement device . The receiver relays the processed signals to a second processor which processes the signals further. Like the processor the processor may perform any desired operation on the processed signals such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like.

The processor provides the processed signals to the digital music player . Referring back now to the electronic interface device includes a connector system that physically plugs into and connects with a conventional input port provided on digital music player . The input port into which the connector system of the electronic interface device connects may be any desired type of input port for transferring data such as a parallel data port a serial data port an earphone or microphone jack etc. The connector system may include any suitable connecting devices such as wires pins electrical connectors and the like so as to make an electrical connection or other suitable connection with corresponding elements provided in the input port of the digital music player e.g. to allow electronic and or data communications between the interface device and the electronic interface device . If necessary or desired additional securing elements may be provided to securely connect the interface device to the digital music player such as straps hooks buckles clips clamps clasps retaining elements mechanical connectors and the like.

Returning now to the processor provides the processed signals to the computing unit . The computing unit may initially store the processed signals in the memory . Further with some implementations of the invention the computing unit may operate on the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data corresponding to the athletic activity performed by the user. For example if the athletic information monitoring device includes accelerometers for measuring the movement of the user s foot the computing unit may analyze the processed signals from the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data describing the user s speed at specific instances during the user s athletic activity and the total distance traveled by the user at each of those specific instances. Various techniques for determining a user s speed from accelerometer signals are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 898 550 to Blackadar et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on May 24 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 882 955 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 19 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 947 to Darley et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 5 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 493 652 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Dec. 10 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 298 314 to Blackadar et al. entitled Detecting The Starting And Stopping Of Movement Of A Person On Foot and issued on Oct. 2 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 654 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Apr. 18 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 018 705 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Jan. 25 2000 each of which are incorporated entirely herein by reference.

The athletic data set may also include a time value associated with each speed value and or each distance value. If the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data computing unit may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself in some way. This identification information may then be included with the athletic data set generated from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device . Once the computing unit has generated a set of athletic data from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device the computing unit may store the athletic data set in the memory . As will be discussed in more detail below when the digital music player subsequently is connected to a computing device implementing an athletic information collection tool the computing unit will download the athletic data to a display configuration tool hosted on a remote computing device.

While wireless communication between the between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device is described for the embodiments illustrated in any desired manner of communicating between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device may be used without departing from the invention including wired connections. Also any desired way of placing data derived from the physical or physiological data from the athletic parameter measurement device in the proper form or format for display on or output from electronic device may be provided without departing from the invention. For example if desired the athletic parameter measurement device may be specially designed and or programmed for use with one or more specific electronic devices e.g. pre programmed and or wired to operate with a specific device or devices and to provide output data in a form and format suitable for those devices. In this situation the interface devices may be marketed and sold to specifically target certain electronic devices such as specific models of digital music players and even other electronic devices such as telephones watches personal digital assistants etc. As another alternative if desired the interface devices may be programmed at a later time to operate with a wide variety of different electronic devices e.g. by downloading display or device driver and or format data for specific electronic devices from the Internet from disk or from another source etc.

If desired in accordance with at least some examples of this invention the electronic interface device may further include a display and or a user input system such as one or more rotary input devices switches buttons as shown in the illustrated example in mouse or trackball elements touch screens or the like or some combination thereof. The display may be employed to show for example information relating to music being played by the digital music player information relating to the athletic information signals being received by the digital music player athletic data being generated by the digital music player from the received athletic information signals etc. The user input system may be employed for example to control one or more aspects of the processing of the input data received via interface device to control input data receipt e.g. timing types of information received on demand data requests etc. to control data output to or by the electronic device to control the athletic parameter measurement device etc. Alternatively or additionally if desired the input system on the digital music player e.g. buttons a touch screen a digitizer stylus based input a rotary input device a trackball or roller ball a mouse etc. may be used to provide user input data to the interface device and or to the athletic parameter measurement device . As still another example if desired a voice input system may be provided with the interface device and or the digital music player e.g. to enable user input via voice commands. Any other desired type of user input system for control of any system elements and or for any purpose may be provided without departing from the invention.

The digital music player may include additional input and or output elements e.g. such as ports and shown in e.g. for headphones or other audio output power supplies wireless communications infrared input microphone input or other devices. If desired and if these ports and or would be covered when the interface device is attached to the electronic device the interface device may be equipped with similar external ports to ports and or and internal circuitry may be provided in the interface device to enable the user to plug the same additional devices into the interface device as they might plug into the digital music player and still take advantage of the same functions e.g. to thereby allow the necessary data signals power and or information to pass through the interface device to the user to another output and or to the digital music player .

It should be appreciated that while some specific embodiments of the invention described above relate to a digital music player alternate examples of the invention may be implemented using any portable electronic device. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be used in conjunction with a mobile telephone a watch a personal digital assistant anther type of music player such as a compact disc or satellite radio music player a portable computer or any other desired electronic device. Still further some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally omit the use of the interface device . For example the athletic parameter measurement device may be configured to communicate using the Bluetooth wireless communication protocol so that it can be employed with Bluetooth capable mobile telephones personal digital assistants watches or personal computers. Of course still other wireless or wired communication techniques could be employed while omitting the interface device .

It also should be appreciated that while a specific example of an athletic parameter measurement device has been described above for ease of understanding any type of desired athletic parameter measurement device can be employed with various embodiments of the invention. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be a heart rate monitor a blood oxygen monitor a satellite positioning device e.g. a Global Positioning Satellite GPS navigation device a device for measuring the electrical activity of the user e.g. an EKG monitor or any other device that measures one or more physical parameters of the user. Still further the athletic parameter measurement device may measure one or more operational parameters of some device being manipulated by the user such as the speed and or distance of a bicycle the speed and or work performed by a treadmill rowing machine elliptical machine stationary bicycle the speed and or distance traveled by skis water or snow skates roller or ice or snowshoes or the like worn by the user etc.

Also while the athletic parameter measurement device has been described as being separate for the digital music player or other portable electronic device that receives the signals from the athletic parameter measurement device with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example some implementations of the invention may employ a music player mobile telephone watch or personal digital assistant that incorporates accelerometers a satellite positioning device or any other desired device for measuring athletic activity. Still further it should be appreciated that various implementations of the invention may employ a plurality of athletic parameter measurement devices incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device separate from the digital music player or other portable electronic device or some combination thereof.

As shown the athletic information collection and display device includes an interface for receiving data from the athletic information monitoring device . The interface may be implemented using e.g. electrical components software components such as application program interfaces APIs or some combination thereof. The athletic information collection and display device also has an athletic data collection module . With various examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may detect when the digital music player or other portable electronic device storing one or more athletic data sets is connected to the athletic information collection and display device through the interface establish a communication session with the digital music player or other portable electronic device to retrieve the athletic data set or sets. In some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may delete athletic data sets from the digital music player or other portable electronic device after the athletic data sets have been retrieved.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may perform some further operations on the athletic data sets retrieved from the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example if the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data collection module may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself if this information was not previously obtained by the athletic information collection and display device . This identification information may then be included with the retrieved athletic data sets.

As previously noted the athletic information collection and display device typically will generate sets of athletic data from information measured by one or more athletic parameter measurement devices . With some embodiments of the invention however the athletic information collection and display device may instead store the raw information provided by the athletic parameter measurement devices . With these embodiments the athletic data collection module may retrieve the raw information from the digital music player or other portable electronic device and then generate athletic data sets from the raw information itself. Of course still other examples of the invention may divide functions relating to the generation of athletic data from the raw information measured by athletic parameter measurement devices between the athletic data collection module and the digital music player or other portable electronic device as desired.

The athletic data collection module may be implemented by for example software instructions executed by a computing unit of a computing device . With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a conventional software tool such as a browser. Alternately athletic data collection module may be implemented by a purpose specific software tool or by a conventional software tool enhanced to perform athletic data collection functions. For example the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a software tool that incorporates a conventional browser to perform a variety of functions. These functions may include e.g. selecting purchasing and downloading music and video content in addition to collecting athletic data from a digital music player or other portable electronic device.

Once the athletic data collection module has collected the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device the athletic data collection module transmits the athletic data set to an athletic data display configuration device through an interface module . The athletic information collection and display device may communicate with the athletic data display configuration device through a conventional network such as the Internet. With these configurations the interface module may be implemented using any conventional type of network interface such as a network interface card. Of course any type of desired hardware or software combination alternately may be used to allow the athletic data collection module to send the collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . With some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may automatically forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . For example the athletic data collection module may attempt to forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device immediately after collection at a prescheduled interval upon the detection of a network connection to the athletic data display configuration device or some combination thereof. Alternately or additionally the athletic data collection module may prompt a user to specify when collected athletic data is sent to the athletic data display configuration device .

The athletic data display configuration device also includes an athletic data display configuration module and an athletic data storage . When the interface of the athletic data display configuration device receives athletic data from the athletic information collection and display device it provides the received athletic data to the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display configuration module may then store the athletic data in the athletic data storage for future use. As will be discussed in more detail below the athletic data display configuration module also will retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage and configure the retrieved athletic data for display through one or more user interfaces in a manner that is meaningful to a user.

Returning now to when a user wishes to view information relating to his or her athletic activities or the athletic activities of another as will be discussed in more detail below the user submits this request to the athletic information collection and display device . More particularly the user can employ conventional input and output devices such as a keyboard mouse display and the like. The display request is then provided to an athletic data display module through a conventional interface input output interface . As well known in the art the interface input output interface may be implemented using any desired combination of hardware and software components such as conventional application programming interfaces APIs used to detect and process input from input devices and to send data to and otherwise control output devices.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using any conventional tool for receiving input to request and control the display of data and then subsequently displaying the data in the manner requested. For example the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Opera executing on a computing unit . With still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program that has been enhanced by one or more display tools such as an ActiveX plug in a Java script or a version of the Macromedia Flash Player or Adobe Flash Player available from Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. In still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented by for example a purpose specific software tool for displaying athletic data.

As will be discussed in more detail below when a user activates the athletic data display module he or she is provided with a user interface prompting the use to select what collected athletic data he or she wishes to view the format in which the user wishes to view the collected athletic data etc. This user interface may be generated by the athletic data display module the athletic data display configuration module or some combination thereof. When a user employs the provided user interface to submit a request to view athletic data the athletic data display module relays the request to the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module configures the requested athletic data for display by the athletic data display module . For example as will be discussed in more detail below a user may request to view the total distance run by a user for each day in a one week period. In response the athletic data display configuration module will retrieve the relevant distance data from the athletic data storage . It will then configure the retrieved distance data to be displayed through a desired image e.g. a bar graph and provide the configured athletic data to the athletic data display module for display to the user.

It should be noted that with some embodiments of the invention the data display configuration functions may be divided between the athletic data display module and the athletic data display configuration module . For example if the athletic data display module is implemented by a simple browser then the athletic data display module may serve as a thin client for the athletic data display configuration module . That is all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display module will then only display the information provided to it. Alternately if the athletic data display module is implemented by a purpose specific software tool then most or all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display module . With these examples the athletic data display configuration module may be used only to store and retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage .

Typically the athletic data display configuration device will be implemented at a remote location from the athletic information collection and display device . The athletic information collection and display device then may be connected to the athletic data display configuration device through an electronic communication network as previously noted. The electronic communication network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network or include some combination of both. For example illustrates a network including an athletic data display configuration device and a plurality of client devices for collecting and or displaying athletic data. These client devices may include personal computers A using some version of the Microsoft Windows operating systems available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. personal computers B using some version of the Apple operating system personal digital assistants C and telephones D. Of course various examples of the invention may alternately or additionally include any other desired electronic device that can be configured to collect and or display athletic data as discussed above.

It should be appreciated that a client device may perform an athletic data collection function an athletic data display function or both. That is while the example of the athletic information collection and display device described above is capable of both collecting and displaying athletic data some client devices may only collect athletic data. Further some client devices may only display athletic data. For example a user may employ a GPS equipped smart telephone to collect athletic data and transmit the collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . The user may then employ a personal computer equipped with only a conventional browser to subsequently download and display the collected athletic data.

In response to receiving a request to review athletic information from a user via the athletic data display module the athletic data display configuration module will determine the user s identity. The athletic data display configuration module will then retrieve the athletic data associated with the user from the athletic data storage . Next the athletic data display configuration module will prepare a user interface for displaying the requested athletic data and transmit the user interface with the athletic data to the athletic data display module for display to the user.

As shown in the user has activated the Distance button and the Run button . In response the display initially shows an icon for the each of the most recent e.g. twelve sets of athletic data collected by the server that corresponds to the user. As previously noted each data set includes athletic data values generated from athletic information measured during a single discrete athletic activity performed by a person over a particular time period. Further the height of each icon will correspond to the total distance value included in the set of athletic data represented by the icon . For example on October 22 the user traveled a total distance of 4.05 miles during a run whereas the user traveled a total distance of only 1.59 miles during a first run on December 23. Accordingly the icon A corresponding to the athletic activity on October 22 will be proportionally larger than the icon B representing the athletic data collected for the user s first run on December 23 as shown in this figure. If the user wishes to view icons for athletic activities performed before or after the athletic activities corresponding to the displayed icons the user can view those additional icons by activating the desired arrow buttons .

If a user subsequently selects the Time button the athletic data display configuration module will reconfigure the user interface to display new icons so that each icon represents a total time value for each of the data sets. For example as shown in the height of each icon will correspond to the total time value in each represented data set. For example if the length of the user s run on October 22 was 54 minutes 2 seconds whereas the duration of the user s first run on December 23 was only 18 minutes 11 seconds then the icon A corresponding to the athletic data set for October 22 will be proportionally taller than the icon B representing the athletic data set collected for the user s run on December 23.

In addition to displaying only distance and time information the user interface may optionally display additional information. For example with some implementations of the invention a user may employ a pointing device to select a specific icon or . In response to the selection by e.g. positioning a cursor over the icon the user interface may display additional information from the athletic data set represented by the selected icon. For example the user interface may use e.g. a pop up display not shown to display data values for the total distance time speed and calories burned for the athletic activity represented by the selected icon or . Still further the user interface may use e.g. color information to distinguish between the most recently collected sets of athletic data and athletic data sets that were collected at an earlier time. Thus the icons or representing data sets collected during the most recent download from an athletic information monitoring device may be illustrated using e.g. a light green color while icons or representing previously collected athletic data sets may be displayed with a dark green color.

With some implementations of the invention a user may obtain still more detailed information regarding an athletic data set by activating the icon or representing the athletic data set. For example a user may position a cursor over a desired icon or using a pointing device and then depress a selection button to activate the icon or . In response the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide a user interface graphically illustrating the data values in the corresponding athletic data set in more detail. For example as illustrated in various implementations of the inventions may display a user interface plotting a first type of data in the data set against a second type of data in the data set to provide a visual graph . More particularly as illustrated in this figure the athletic data display configuration module will plot speed values in the athletic data set against distance values data in the athletic data set providing the graph . In this manner a user can view what his or her instantaneous speed was at various points during the run. In addition the graph may include other relevant information such as for example an icon showing the type of athletic activity e.g. running and an indication on of the total distance traveled.

With some implementations of the invention the graph also may include specific distance waypoints which will show the particular speed value measured at the distance during the athletic activity represented by the position of the waypoint . For example if the user employs a pointing device to move a cursor over waypoint A the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 12 seconds at the first mile. Similarly if the user employs a pointing device to move a cursor over the waypoint B the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 17 seconds at the second mile. If the user then employs a pointing device to move a cursor over the waypoint C the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 3 seconds at the third mile.

The user interface also may include a value field indicating the total distance value total time value total average pace value total calories burned value and athletic activity type value corresponding to the represented athletic activity. It also may include an Options button . If the user activates the Options button the interface may display additional command buttons not shown that allow the user to name the selected athletic data set or delete the athletic data set. Still further the interface may include a Comparison button .

If the user selects the Comparison button the athletic data display configuration module will determine a time or distance classification for the selected athletic activity. For example if the total distance value collected for the selected athletic activity is approximately 6 kilometers then the athletic data display configuration module will classify the athletic data set corresponding to the selected athletic activity as a 6 kilometer athletic data set. Similarly if the total distance value collected for the selected athletic activity is proximal to another specified distance category e.g. 1 mile 10 kilometers 15 kilometers 10 miles 26 miles etc. then the athletic data display configuration module will classify the athletic data set based upon the relevant category.

After the athletic data display configuration module has classified the athletic data set it examines the other athletic data sets in that classification to determine which athletic data set has the highest total distance value or if the classification is based upon time or speed the lowest total time value or the highest average speed value . Once the athletic data display configuration module identifies the best set of athletic data for the determined classification it will then reconfigure the user interface to include a graph of this best athletic data set as shown in . As seen in this figure the graph may have the same characteristics and features as the graph representing the selected athletic activity session.

If the user selects the See My Runs button the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide the interface for display as shown in . Returning now to those figures if the user selects the Week button or the Month button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display one or more icons representing an aggregation of multiple sets of athletic data. More particularly the athletic data display configuration module will aggregate data values from each athletic data set based upon the designated time period.

For example if the user has selected the Distance button in addition to the Week button then the athletic data display configuration module will add up the total distance data values for each set of athletic data corresponding to an athletic activity session occurring within a particular calendar week. The athletic data display configuration module will then modify the user interface to include icons where each icon graphically represents the sum of total distance values in the athletic data sets generated during a particular week. The athletic data display configuration module may also modify the user interface to include a calendar week field specifying the calendar week to which each icon is associated. As shown in the height of each icon represents the sum of the total distance values for each athletic data set for the specified week period. For example the user may have run a total of 4.05 miles during the weekly period from October 22 to October 28. On the other hand the user may have run a total distance of 20.25 miles during the week period of December 3 to December 9. Accordingly the icon B representing the aggregated athletic data for the week of December 3 to December 9 will be proportionally larger than the icon A representing the athletic data aggregated from the athletic data sets obtained for the week of October 22 to October 28.

Similarly if the user selects the Time button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display icons that represent the sum of total time values for aggregated sets of athletic data. More particularly as shown in a height of each icon will represent the sum of the total time values for each athletic data set obtained during the corresponding weekly period. For example if a user ran for a total time of 54 minutes 2 seconds during the week from October 22 to October 28 but ran for a total time of 4 hours 7 minutes and 24 seconds during the week of December 3 to December 9 then the icon B representing the aggregation of athletic data for the week of December 3 to December 9 will be proportionally larger than the icon A representing the aggregation of athletic data for the weekly period of October 22 to October 28.

Similarly if the user selects the Month button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display icons representing the aggregations of data values from athletic data sets obtained over each monthly time period. For example if the user has selected the Distance button as well the user interface may display an icon representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during each calendar month as illustrated in . The user interface also may include a calendar month field specifying the calendar month to which each icon is associated. As shown in this figure the user interface thus includes an icon A representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of August and another icon B representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of January. The height of the icon A represents the sum of the total distance values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in August i.e. 18.84 miles while the height of the icon B correspond to the sum of each of the total distance data values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in January i.e. 58.84 miles .

If on the other hand the user has selected the Time button the user interface may display an icon representing the aggregation of total time values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during each calendar month as illustrated in . As shown in this figure the user interface thus includes an icon A representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of August and another icon B representing the aggregation of total time values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of January. The height of the icon A represents the sum of the total time values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in August i.e. 4 hours 6 minutes 1 second while the height of the icon B correspond to the sum of each of the total time data values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in January i.e. 10 hours 47 minutes 27 seconds .

In addition to displaying only distance and time information the user interface may optionally display additional information aggregated from multiple sets of athletic data. For example with some implementations of the invention a user may employ a pointing device to select a specific icon or . In response to the selection by e.g. positioning a cursor over the icon the user interface may display additional information from the aggregation of athletic data sets represented by the selected icon. For example the user interface may provide e.g. a pop up display not shown to display sum of total distance data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon the some of the total time data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon the average of the average speed data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon speed and the sum of the calories burned data values data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon.

It should be noted that the athletic data display configuration module or with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display module may aggregate data from multiple athletic data sets in advance of receiving a request to display aggregated athletic data from a user. Alternately the athletic data display configuration module or with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display module may aggregate data from multiple athletic data sets only in response to a specific request from a user to view the aggregated data.

In addition to displaying specific athletic data values or aggregates of athletic data values various embodiments of the invention may alternately or additionally permit a user to set a goal relating to his or her athletic activities and then view one or more images graphically illustrating the user s progress toward accomplishing those goals. For example with the embodiments illustrated in a user can select the Goals tab shown in these figures. In response the athletic data display configuration module may configure and provide the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a Set A Goal button prompting the user to select a desired goal relating to his or her athletic activities.

When the user activates the Set A Goal button the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide the user interface shown in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a More Often button a Distance button a Burn More Calories button a Faster button and a Back button . As known in the art activating the Back button will cause the athletic data display configuration module or with some examples of the invention the athletic data display module to configure and display the previously displayed configuration of the user interface or if the currently displayed configuration of the user interface is its initial configuration a previously shown user interface.

If a user wishes to perform the athletic activity more often then the user activates the More Often button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Number Of Runs control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Number Of Runs control a user can specify the number of runs or the number of times to perform some other athletic activity if appropriate he or she wishes to make within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Number Of Runs control is a field control i.e. having a field in which a value can be typed in while the Number Of Weeks control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

Similarly if a user wishes to run a longer distance in a given time period then the user activates the Distance button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance he or she wishes to run within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Total Distance control is a combination control with both a field control i.e. a field in which a value can be typed and a drop down menu control i.e. to allow the user to select the units in which the distance would be measure . The Number Of Weeks control illustrated in then is a radio control. Various examples of the invention however may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

If a user wishes to burn more calories during a particular time period then the user activates the Burn More Calories button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Number Of Calories control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Number Of Calories control a user can specify the number of calories he or she wishes to burn within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to burn the desired number of calories. In the illustrated example the Number Of Calories control is a field control i.e. having a field in which a value can be typed in while the Number Of Weeks control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

Lastly if a user wishes to run faster for a desired number of runs then the user activates the Faster button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes an Average Pace control a Number Of Runs control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Average Pace control a user can specify the minimum pace at which he or she wishes to travel for the desired number of runs. Similarly by employing the Number Of Runs control a user can specify the number of runs for which the user wishes to run faster in order to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Average Pace control is a field control i.e. having fields in which values can be typed while the Number Of Runs control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the average pace and the number of runs for which he or she must run at or faster than the specified average pace to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

After the user has specified a desired goal the athletic data display configuration module will monitor the athletic data collected by the athletic data collection module . When the user subsequently wishes to view his or her progress toward accomplishing the specified goals by e.g. selecting the Goals tab then the athletic data display configuration module will aggregate the relevant data from the collected athletic data set and configure a user interface graphically displaying the user s progress toward the specified goals. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display configuration module may configure a user interface displaying bar graph such as the bar graph shown in . A portion of the bar graph corresponding to the user s progress is marked with fill . Thus in the illustrated example the fill in the bar graph indicates that the user has accomplished more than 50 of the athletic activity required to complete his or her goal. Some implementations may simultaneously display a bar graph or other progress indicator for each goal set by the user. Still other implementations of the invention may provide controls to allow a user to select a single bar graph or other progress indicator for display in the user interface.

Various examples of the invention may allow a user to challenge one or more other users i.e. athletes employing embodiments of the invention to a competition regarding athletic activities. With some implementations of the invention for example a user may issue a challenge to one or more other athletes by requesting the user interface shown in . As seen in this figure the interface includes a Distance Race button a Most Miles button a Fastest Run button a Distance Goal button and a Back button . As known in the art activating the Back button will cause the athletic data display configuration module or with some examples of the invention the athletic data display module to configure and display the previously displayed configuration of the user interface or if the currently displayed configuration of the user interface is its initial configuration a previously shown user interface.

If a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run a specified distance first then the user activates the Distance Race button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance that a challenge participant must be the first to run in order to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . Naming each challenge allows an athlete to identify and keep track of a plurality of different challenges in which he or she may be concurrently participating. The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus. It should be appreciated however that various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button .

When the user activates the Next Step button the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface in place of the Distance Race button as shown in . As seen in this figure the sub interface includes a Personal Message control an Email Address control and a Set Challenge button . The user can employ the Personal Message control to create a personal message to each athlete the user wishes to invite to participate in the challenge. Using the Email Address control the user can then specify the email address for each person he or she wishes to invite to participate in the challenge. In the illustrated example the Personal Message control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once the user has provided the email address for each desired participant the user can initiate the challenge by activating the Set Challenge button . In response to the user activating the Set Challenge button the athletic data display configuration device or with some implementations of the invention the user s athletic information collection and display device sends an email to each of the specified invitees. The email will contain the personal message and e.g. an interactive prompt to join the challenge. If an invitee agrees to join the challenge by responding to the prompt then the athletic data display configuration device will be notified that the invitee has agreed to join the challenge. These types of email interactive prompts such as the voting buttons provided in versions of the Outlook software tool available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. are well known in the art and will not be discussed here in detail.

After the athletic data display configuration device has identified the participants in a challenge it monitors the collected athletic data for each of the participants and aggregates the relevant data values in the collected athletic data. For example if the challenge is a race to determine who can be the first to run 100 miles for each participant the athletic data display configuration device will sum the total distance value in each athletic data set collected for that participant after the start date. When a participant has a sum of his or her total distance values that matches or exceeds the specified challenge distance and is the first invitee to do so then the athletic data display configuration device will identify that participant as the winner of the challenge. In response the athletic data display configuration device will notify each participant of the winner. The athletic data display configuration device may notify the participants using any desired technique such as by sending an electronic mail message by displaying a special purpose interface when each participant connects to the athletic data display configuration device etc. A variety of such notification techniques are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed in detail.

With various examples of the invention the athletic data display configuration device may additionally provide updates regarding the status of a participant relative to the other participants. These updates also can be provided using any desired technique such as by sending an electronic mail message by displaying a special purpose interface when each participant connects to the athletic data display configuration device etc. For example the athletic data display configuration device may configure and provide a user interface showing each participant s progress toward the goal of the challenge using e.g. bar graphs for each participant of the type previously described with regard to monitoring individual goals.

Returning now to if a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run the most miles in a given period of time then the user activates the Most Miles button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface as seen in . The sub interface includes a Challenge Duration control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Challenge Duration control a user can specify the total amount of time for which a challenge participant has to run the greatest total distance in order to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Challenge Duration control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus. It should be appreciated however that various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include the sub interface in place of the Most Miles button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

If a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can make the fastest run in a given period of time then the user activates the Fastest Run button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface as seen in . The sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance a user must run in order to have his or her run time eligible to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface in place of the Fastest Run button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

Lastly if a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run a specified distance in a given period of time then the user activates the Distance Goal button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance a user must run over the specified time period in order to meet the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include the sub interface in place of the Distance Goal button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

As well as interactive comparisons of a user s athletic data with other users such as the goals and challenges described in detail above some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally allow a user to passively compare his or her athletic data with other users. For example some implementations of the invention may provide a ranking of where a user stands with respect to other users. The ranking may be based upon a simple comparison or it may be limited to a specific demographic group a particular geographic region or some combination therefore.

For example with some implementations of the invention a user may request that the athletic data display configuration module generate and display the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a comparison criteria region a filter region and display region . The comparison criteria region includes a plurality of radio style controls while the filter region includes a plurality of drop down controls . The display region then displays user information based upon athletic data selected using the comparison and filter information selected using the controls .

More particularly a user employs the radio style controls to specify the basic criteria according to which the athletic data display configuration module will compare athletic data for a plurality of users. These controls are referred to herein as radio style controls because the selection of one of the controls e.g. control C will automatically deselect a previously selected control and only one control may be selected at any given time. Of course it should be appreciated that other type of selection tools including other types of controls may be alternately or additionally employed with other implementations of the invention. Each control is associated with both a sorting criterion for sorting measured athletic data and a time criterion specifying a time period during which the athletic data being compared must have been measured. For example each of controls A C is associated with total distance as a sorting criterion while control A is associated with a week time period control B is associated with a month time period and control C is associated with an unlimited time period. Control D is then associated with a duration sorting criterion and a week time period.

With the example of the interface shown in each of the filter controls are selected to ALL as will be discussed in more detail below. Further the control A is selected. Because the control A is associated with the distance sorting criterion and the week time criterion the athletic data display configuration module will sort the aggregated distance data for participating users that was measured during the preceding week. It then lists the names of the participating users having the ten highest aggregated distance data values in the filter region . In addition the athletic data display configuration module will display in the aggregated distance data values measured during the preceding week for each of the identified participating users. Still further the athletic data display configuration module will display the user s corresponding aggregated distance measured for the preceding week. With some implementations of the invention the athletic data display configuration module also may display the ranking of the user s corresponding aggregated distance information measured for the preceding week relative to those participating users having a greater aggregated distance measured for the preceding week. Thus in the illustrated example the user Rauchholz has a ranking of 2932 relative to other participating users.

With some implementations of the invention the participating users will be any user who provides athletic data to the athletic data storage or to an affiliated athletic data storage . For still other implementations of the invention however the participating users may be a subset of the all of the users who provide athletic data to the athletic data storage or to an affiliated athletic data storage. For example the participating users may be only those users who agree in advance to have their data shared with other users or those users who do not specifically indicate that they wish for their athletic data to be private. Of course still other criteria may be used to determine which users will be treated as participating users.

In some situations a user may wish to limit the pool of participating users to whom the user will be compared. As previously noted the filter region includes filter controls . These filter controls may be employed to limit the participating users that will be considered for a desired comparison. For example as illustrated in a user can employ the filter control to select between including all participating users for comparison only male participating users for comparison or only female participating users for comparison. Similarly as shown in a user can employ filter control to limit the comparison to only those participating users within a desired age group. Still further as shown in a user can employ the filter control to limit the comparison to participating users within a geographic region.

It should be appreciated that with some implementations of the invention a user can employ each of the filters simultaneously. For example a user may employ the filter controls to limit the participating users considered for comparison with the users s athletic data to only men between the ages of 40 44 residing in the United States. The information required to filter the participating users may be obtained from any available source. Conveniently however the information may be obtained by requesting the users to submit this information for a user profile during an initial registration process. Of course while three specific filtering criteria have been disclosed it should be appreciated that any desired type and or combination of characteristics be employed as filters.

As discussed in detail above various implementations of the invention may provide positive reinforcement to an athlete. For example as discussed above a user can employ various embodiments of the invention to set goals for himself or herself and then track his or her progress toward attaining those goals. Similarly a user may employ various embodiments of the invention to participate in a challenge. Once the goal is completed or the challenge is won however these achievements may be forgotten and thus not provide the user with any further positive reinforcement.

Accordingly some implementations of the invention may provide a feature for memorializing a user s various athletic achievements. For example with some embodiments of the invention the athletic data display configuration module may provide a user interface such as the user interface shown in for displaying athletic achievements recorded for a user. As seen in this figure the user interface includes a goal region a challenges region an events region and a milestones region . Each of these regions can be used to display an icon representing a user s previous achievement.

For example if a user sets and then subsequently meets a goal the achievement of this goal will be recorded by the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module will display an icon such as a representation of a medal graphically commemorating that achievement. Similarly if the user wins a challenge that achievement will be recorded by the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module will display an icon such as a representation of a trophy graphically commemorating that achievement.

Still further a user may participate in an event associated with one or more implementations of the invention. For example a race sponsor such as a marathon race sponsor may affiliate itself with embodiments of the invention. If a user runs in the race completes the race or places in the race then the athletic data display configuration module may record that achievement. In response the athletic data display configuration module will display an icon such as a representation of a racing bib graphically commemorating that achievement. The athletic data display configuration module may employ any desired technique to record the user s participation in the race. For example the race sponsor may physically monitor the user s participation and subsequently update the athletic data storage directly. Alternately the user may update the athletic data storage on an honor system basis.

Of course still more sophisticated techniques can be used to have the athletic data display configuration module record the user s achievement. For example the race sponsor or a third party may provide the user with an electronic recording device that records the user s progress through the race. The user can then download the data from the electronic recording device to the athletic data storage or to the athletic data display configuration module . With some implementations of the invention the electronic interface device or the athletic parameter measurement device may even be used to record the user s progress through the race and to subsequently download the data from the electronic recording device to the athletic data storage or to the athletic data display configuration module .

Still further a user may have still other milestones associated with his or her athletic performance. For example a user may run achieve a relatively large total distance such as 100 kilometers 100 miles 250 kilometers 250 miles etc. run at a particularly fast speed such as a mile in less than five minutes or run for a relatively large total duration such as 1000 hours. In response the athletic data display configuration module may record that milestone achievement and then display an icon such as a representation of an award ribbon graphically commemorating that achievement.

In this manner various implementations of the invention can memorialize a user s past achievements to provide the user with positive feedback to inspire future athletic performance. Of course some implementations of the invention may memorialize alternate or additional achievements.

Some implementations of the invention may assist a user in resolving to achieve a specific athletic achievement and then keep that resolution. For example various embodiments of the invention may provide a user interface like the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the interface provides a resolution statement with an achievement field and a consequence field . The user interface also includes a submission button . When a user wishes to make a resolution he or she can insert the desired achievement goal such as a distance into the achievement field and some task or other action that will occur if the user does not meet the stated achievement in the consequence field . Once the user has completed the information in the achievement field and the consequence field then the user actives the submission button to submit the resolution information to the athletic data display configuration module .

After receiving the resolution information the athletic data display configuration module will monitor the user s athletic activity to determine whether the user has complied with his or her resolution. If the athletic data display configuration module determines that the user has met the stated resolution then the athletic data display configuration module may provide some type of positive feedback to the user. For example the athletic data display configuration module may send the user an electronic mail message congratulating the user on keeping his or her resolution. Alternately or additionally the athletic data display configuration module may memorialize the achievement as described above. If however the user does not meet the stated resolution then the athletic data display configuration module may encourage the user to perform the specified task or action. The athletic data display configuration module may for example send an electronic mail message to the user to remind the user of his or her resolution. Of course various implementations of the invention may perform alternate or additional actions to encourage the user to perform the specified task or action.

As users or athletes such as runners utilize the systems of embodiments of the present invention to collect information a user interface of an embodiment may provide additional features and functionality for athletes to use and share information relating to their physical activity. In one exemplary form of the invention athletic information is displayed on a user interface and or user interface as described in greater detail below.

For example a user or athlete may wish to perform their walking jogging running or other athletic activity with the help of an athletic performance device or machine i.e. athletic equipment . For example the user or athlete may wish to use a stair stepping machine elliptical machine treadmill resistance training i.e. weight machine ergometer stationary bicycle climbing machine or any other athletic performance device or machine. As described above with reference to the user or athlete may provide a digital music player that may among other features monitor and store athletic performance data. In an alternate embodiment the user or athlete may provide another storage device such as flash drive or other similar Universal Serial Bus USB storage device compact flash memory stick secure digital card or any other portable storage device. As will be described in more detail below the digital music player or other storage device may couple to the athletic performance device or machine for example via a wired or wireless connection to interact with the athletic performance device or machine. Additionally the digital music player or other storage device may couple to the athletic performance device or machine via a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example the digital music player or other storage device may couple to the athletic performance device or machine via a wired connection while the user or athlete may interact with or control the digital music player or other storage device with a wireless connection for example with a remote control or other similar wireless device.

In an embodiment the athletic performance data may be generated by one or more athletic performance sensors located on or adjacent to the user or athlete for example on or in the user or athlete s shoe as illustrated by . In an alternate embodiment athletic performance data may be generated by one or more athletic performance sensors coupled to the athletic performance device or machine. In yet another embodiment athletic performance data may be generated by one or more athletic performance sensors located on or adjacent to the user or athlete and may be generated by one or more athletic performance sensors coupled to the athletic performance device or machine.

In an embodiment and as described above with reference to the user or athlete may provide a digital music player or other storage device that may among other features monitor and store current athletic performance data. The digital music player or other storage device may further store and provide historical athletic performance data. The digital music player or other storage device may communicate directly with the user interface via wired or wireless connection. For example the athletic performance device or machine including user interface may further include an interface that may be a wireless transceiver or wired connector to bi directionally interface with the digital music player or other storage device.

More specifically a particular athletic performance device or machine may measure or sense performance data for a user or athlete interacting with the athletic performance device. For example a stair stepping machine may communicate weight climbing rate e.g. vertical feet per minute calories burned heart rate and the like to the digital music player or other storage device coupled thereto as described above. Further the digital music player or other storage device may communicate historical athletic performance data or other stored athletic performance data to the athletic performance device or machine. In an embodiment the current athletic performance data the historical or stored athletic performance data e.g. as stored by digital music player or other storage device or a combination thereof may be displayed by user interface . In an embodiment the user interface may be a console or the like coupled to the athletic performance device or machine that is viewable by and accessible to the user or athlete interacting with the athletic performance device or machine. More specifically the user interface may be a console that displays the user or athlete s athletic performance substantially in real time. Further the user interface console may display a comparison of substantially real time athletic performance data to historical or otherwise stored athletic performance data.

In an embodiment the user interface console may include one or more portions. For example the user interface console may include a workout portion a history portion and a message portion . Further the user interface may include an interface to couple to the digital music player or other storage device. In an embodiment the interface may be a wired or wireless interface as introduced above. The workout portion may include for example an input device for the user or athlete to input a workout goal or other workout parameters. For example the input device may be a numerical pad for the user or athlete to input a workout goal or other workout parameters. The user or athlete may utilize the input device to select a quick start e.g. a predetermined time at a predetermined intensity or to input workout time distance calorie burn or any other workout program. Further the workout portion may include a display so that the user or athlete has an indication of their progress in the quick start time distance calorie burn or any other workout program.

In one arrangement data may be sent to and received from an athletic performance monitoring or tracking site. For example a user may transfer data recorded in a digital music player as discussed above to the athletic performance tracking site for storage. The digital music player may have a connection to a network hosting the athletic performance tracking site. Alternatively access to the athletic performance tracking site may be facilitated by a piece of athletic equipment such as an elliptical device treadmill and the like that is connected to a network. The athletic performance tracking site may be configured to track various types of athletic performance data such as best times most recent workout information goals resolutions challenges and or combinations thereof. Data stored in the digital music player may be used to update athletic performance tracking site and vice versa. In one or more arrangements other devices may also be used to store athletic performance data and or to communicate with athletic performance tracking site and a piece of athletic equipment. For example such devices may include mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs watches USB type devices having athletic functionality activity monitoring devices as well as other athletic oriented devices.

The information stored on the digital music player or other portable device may be displayed on interface . For example information corresponding to a most recent workout may be displayed on interface to provide a user with a basis of comparison with a current workout. In another example a best workout time for a particular piece of athletic equipment may be displayed on the athletic equipment to challenge a user to beat that time. A piece of athletic equipment may be configured to automatically select or extract information relating to that type of athletic equipment while ignoring or discarding other information. Alternatively the portable device might only transmit information relating to a type of athletic equipment the user is using. In one or more configurations athletic equipment may query an athletic performance tracking site to obtain workout information. Once such information is obtained the information can be displayed on the interface or on the portable device . Furthermore the portable device and or athletic equipment can be configured to transmit information to the athletic performance tacking site. For example workout data may be immediately transferred from the athletic equipment to the athletic performance tracking site upon completion of a workout. Thus bi directional communication is provided between the portable device athletic equipment and the athletic performance tracking site. Constant updates can be provided from the athletic performance tracking site to the athletic equipment and portable device . Communication between the athletic equipment and athletic performance tracking site may be via wired or wireless connections.

The history portion may interact with the digital music player or other storage device via interface to retrieve historical data related to the user or athlete s past performance. For example the history portion may retrieve and display the user or athlete s last workout and best workout for a particular athletic performance device or machine. In particular the history portion may retrieve and display the user or athlete s last and best workout time distance calorie burn distance equivalent e.g. cardiovascular miles and floors e.g. if the history portion is coupled to a stair stepper athletic performance device or machine . Further the history portion may display the user or athlete s current athletic performance compared to their last workout and historical best workout so that they have an indication of their current athletic performance. In an alternate embodiment the user interface may receive at least part of the historical or otherwise stored athletic performance data associated with a user or athlete via a wired and or wireless connection to an additional athletic performance database such as the athletic performance tracking site. For example the user interface may include Internet or other web based connectivity to bi directionally communicate current and or historical athletic performance data.

The distance equivalent for example cardiovascular miles may represent athletic performance data of differing types converted to a common unit. For example a runner may wear a shoe that includes a pedometer or accelerometer to track distance run pace average speed and the like. The pedometer may further communicate the athletic performance data to the digital musical player or other storage device for storage and transmission relay to the user interface . Alternatively the user or athlete may be resistance training i.e. lifting weights on any number of resistance training machines including one or more athletic performance sensors coupled thereto. The athletic performance sensor s may detect total weight lifted i.e. weight lifted multiplied by the number of repetitions maximum weight lifted lifting rate pace delay between sets and the like. Similarly the resistance training machines may further communicate the athletic performance data to the digital musical player or other storage device for storage and transmission relay to the user interface .

In an embodiment the user interface may thereafter convert the received athletic performance data to a common unit. In an embodiment an athletic performance module may convert the received athletic performance data to distance in an embodiment miles run. In the above example the runner s data already represents miles run. However the resistance trainer s data represents total weight lifted maximum weight lifted lifting rate pace delay between sets and the like. The user interface may convert the resistance trainer s data to distance run in a variety of manners. For example the user interface may include a database look up table or the like that stores predetermined conversion factors between for example total weight lifted and miles run. The database or look up table may further contemplate additional metrics such as maximum weight lifted etc. as introduced above. Alternatively the athletic performance module may apply the data to one or more algorithms to calculate the distance run equivalent. Accordingly a goal or challenge may be set in terms of a common unit so that a user may perform a variety of activities to meet the goal or challenge.

The user interface may further determine the calorie usage or burn for each athletic performance. Once the calorie usage or burn has been determined a database look up table or algorithm may convert calorie usage or burn to miles run based on one or more physical characteristics e.g. age weight gender heart rate and the like of the user or athlete. In one example 100 calories may equal 1 common unit e.g. a cardiovascular mile . A conversion unit may depend on one or more characteristics including weight height age type of athletic activity and the like. Additional comparisons may then be based on the cardiovascular miles or actual miles run or a combination thereof. The one or more physical characteristics may be provided for example by the digital music player other storage device or the user interface Internet or web connectivity. Alternatively instead of determining the calorie usage or burn for an athletic performance the user interface in an embodiment via transmission or relay from a digital music player other storage device or the user interface Internet or web connectivity may receive the calorie usage or burn from the athletic performance device or machine for subsequent conversion to distance run. For example an ergometer may track the number of miles rowed by a user athlete. However it may also track the calorie usage or burn corresponding to the miles rowed. Instead of converting the miles rowed to miles run the user interface may convert calorie usage or burn to miles run. Accordingly the operation of user interface may be simplified for those athletic performance devices or machines that already calculate calorie usage or burn. Though described with reference to one or few athletic performance metrics it is to be understood that the user interface may calculate determine or otherwise generate the equivalent distance run based on any number of athletic performance metrics.

Once the athletic performance of the user or athlete has been converted to a common unit for example miles run they may compare their athletic performance with personal goals against athletic performance benchmarks and or against historical athletic performance. For example a user or athlete may establish a personal goal of running 100 miles but may wish to achieve the equivalent of running 100 miles by performing a variety of athletic activities including activities involving one or more athletic performance devices or machines. Similarly an athletic benchmark or milestone may suggest running 25 miles per week. A user or athlete may reach the benchmark or milestone by any form of athletic activity. Finally once their athletic performance or activities have been converted to a common unit in an embodiment miles run multiple active people and athletes may participate in competitions races or other events. Such competitions races or other events are described herein and generally by U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 031 380 filed Feb. 14 2008 and incorporated herein in its entirety.

A message portion may display messages for the user or athlete. For example the message portion may remind the user or athlete to synchronize their digital music player or other storage device with the user interface or to transfer athletic performance data. Further the message portion may provide an indication as to how a current workout or athletic performance data compares to the best workout or athletic performance data for the user or athlete. If the user or athlete is participating in a challenge competition or the like the message portion may provide an indication as to the user or athlete s progress or comparison to the challenge or competition leader. Additionally the message portion may provide congratulatory remarks or other feedback should the user or athlete achieve a personal goal benchmark or milestone.

As further shown in the USB type device generally includes a housing and a controller that is contained by the housing . General components and functional capabilities of the controller regarding athletic functionality are similar to the digital music player or other storage device described above. The housing includes a connector that is generally a standard USB connector having leads or contacts embedded therein. As explained in greater detail below the connector is adapted to connect to a USB hub of a computer or a USB hub or other interface located on the athletic performance device or machine shown schematically on the console shown in . Such a connection is also shown schematically on the fitness equipment shown in . In fitness equipment includes a console to which a sportband such as sportband and a digital music player such as digital music player may be connected. In some arrangements sportband and digital music player may plug directly into console . In other arrangements sportband and digital music player may be connected through a cable not shown . The illustrated connection between each of sportband and digital music player with console is illustrated as a physical connection. However various other connection types may be used including wireless connections e.g. infrared connections wireless local area network connections BLUETOOTH connections and the like .

Referring again to the housing has a first pushbutton that will cooperate with a first input of the controller for controlling the wearable device as needed. The housing also has a second pushbutton that cooperates with a second input of the controller for controlling the wearable device as needed. The front side of the housing accommodates a display of the controller . As further shown in the back side of the housing has a protrusion . The protrusion has a generally circular cross section and an enlarged rounded head. The protrusion is adapted to be inserted into a receiver or aperture in the carrier .

As further shown in the components of the controller are contained within and supported by the housing . The controller includes various electrical components allowing the controller and device to act as an interface device wherein the device can communicate with for example a shoe based sensor record and store data relating to athletic performance other time information as well as upload performance data to a remote location or website as described in greater detail below. The controller can also interact with an athletic performance device or machine for data recording as described above. Thus athletic performance data can be transferred from the athletic equipment during a workout and stored on the device .

As shown in the carrier is generally in the form of a wristband having a central portion between a first end and a second end. The wristband may include a first member and second member generally molded or connected together. The wristband is flexible to fit around a user s wrist. The wristband has receiving structures for connection to the device . The carrier includes a protective sleeve proximate the central portion for receiving the connector . The protective sleeve has a generally contoured surface. The sleeve may have internal structure for assisting in securing the connector . Also at the central portion the carrier has an aperture dimensioned to receive the protrusion of the wearable device . Thus when the wearable device is connected to the wristband the connector is secured within the protective sleeve and the protrusion is received by the aperture .

As discussed in one configuration the wearable device assembly is operably connected to a sensor such as mounted in a shoe. Similar to the digital music player or other storage device the wearable device receives data from the sensor associated with the athletic performance of a user. It is understood that the user may wear the device on the wrist while performing an athletic activity. The user may then remove the wearable device from the wristband and plug the device into a personal computer such as shown in wherein collected data can be uploaded to a remote location such as a website dedicated to displaying the athletic performance of users such as the athletic performance tracking site described above.

In another configuration the wearable device can be used in conjunction with athletic performance devices or machines for example gym equipment. For example gym equipment such as treadmills elliptical machines stair machines bicycles other weight equipment and the like may have USB ports for added functionality. A user may remove the wearable device from the wristband and insert the device into the gym equipment such as in a USB port or other interface located on the stepper console shown in . Such configuration is also shown in . The user performs athletic activity wherein data associated with the activity is received by the USB device . The type of data capable of being received by the USB device is generally similar to the data reception described above with the operable connection between the digital music player or other storage device and the gym equipment. Once the athletic activity is complete the user removes the USB device from the gym equipment and again mounts the device on the wristband or some other carrier as desired. The user can then insert the USB device into a personal computer wherein the data from the athletic activity associated with the gym equipment can be uploaded to a remote location such as the above described website. Additional wired or wireless communication capabilities could also be incorporated into the device .

Though described with reference to bi directionally communicating athletic performance data in an additional embodiment the digital music player other storage device and or user interface Internet or web based connectivity may control one or more parameters of the athletic performance device or machine. For example the digital music player other storage device and or user interface Internet or web based connectivity may provide a workout level duration intensity pace incline target heart rate resistance or any other parameter associated with an athletic performance device or machine. In an embodiment the one or more parameters may reflect current and or historical athletic performance data. Alternately or additionally the one or more parameters may reflect an athletic performance training program or plan.

For example illustrate that user interface may display details associated with a workout or other athletic performance. As illustrated the details correspond to a workout on an elliptical machine. in particular illustrates that the thirty minute elliptical workout has been converted to an equivalent miles run. Once a workout has been converted to its equivalent in miles run it may be displayed alongside actual miles run as part of for example an interactive athletic training tool and or interactive athletic training log. Such an interactive athletic training tool and or interactive athletic training log is described by U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 032 018 filed Feb. 27 2008 and incorporated herein in its entirety.

More specifically illustrates a range of dates for which the user or athlete has completed a run or other athletic performance. For dates on which the user or athlete completed their workout at least in part on one or more athletic performance devices or machines the athletic performance data is illustrated with for example a different legend than actual running athletic performance data. For example dates such as May 15 are displayed with a heart icon or other similar identification to illustrate that the user interface is displaying an equivalent distance i.e. cardiovascular miles for a particular workout or athletic performance. illustrates that the user interface may display details of a workout for example type of athletic performance device or machine equivalent distance duration and calorie usage or burn.

Challenges may further specify specific types of athletic activity that are required to reach the challenge goal. For example a challenge may indicate that 25 cardio miles must be performed on an elliptical 50 cardio miles in weightlifting and 30 cardio miles in rowing. Alternatively a challenge might only specify a total amount of cardio miles or other common unit regardless of the machine or activity performed. Challenges may also include a certain distance run as well as certain activity on a machine such as an elliptical machine and specifying a certain number of cardio miles. Thus the challenges can include a variety of different activities. According to another aspect challenges may take into account locations where athletic activity is performed. For example a challenge may be issued for members of a particular gym or gym location. In another example a challenge may be specific to all locations of a particular gym chain provider. In yet another example a challenge may be offered to a specific gym location or branch. Accordingly gyms may compete against other gyms in a challenge. Similarly challenges may be issued to have classes or groups within a gym compete with other classes or groups within the same gym or another gym.

Training programs may be defined in a variety of ways and may include equipment specific tasks. For example a training program may specify that 2 miles are to be walked on a treadmill on day one while 3 miles are to be biked on a bicycle on day two. Training programs may thus record the type of machine on which athletic activity was performed. The use of different machines may aid in training different skills or athletic abilities in reaching an overall goal such as a triathlon or marathon. Training programs may be directed to an individual or may be defined for a group of people. Solo training programs may guide individuals in performing a single athletic activity or multiple types of athletic activity. The training program and the user s progress in reaching a specified goal may be shared with other users friends family trainers coaches and the like.

Group training may share features similar to those of solo training but instead of a single user following the training program multiple users may be participating in the training program based on the same schedule. A trainer for example may thus track the progress of the overall group to identify how the group is doing in terms of achieving each task and progressing toward a goal as well as how each individual member is performing and contributing to the group s overall goal. A trainer may issue comments and suggestions to all members of the group or may provide user specific comments that only the user to which the comments are directed can view. Whether solo or group training programs may be edited and adjusted according to user needs. For example if a user cannot workout on Friday Saturday and Sunday s planned workout may be increased to compensate for the lack of athletic activity on Friday. In another example a trainer may edit a type of athletic activity to be performed if the trainer believes that a trainee is lacking a particular athletic ability such as endurance or speed.

In one or more arrangements athletic activity may be tracked using electronic avatars. Generally speaking an avatar may be a graphical two dimensional icon or a 3 dimensional model that may represent a user. An avatar may be as simple as a picture of the user or may be a graphical object that may represent the user s actions beliefs interests appearance identity personality and the like. An avatar may be further animated. Avatars are further described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 324 140 entitled INTERACTIVE AVATAR FOR SOCIAL NETWORK SERVICES and filed Nov. 26 2008 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In one or more arrangements avatars or avatar appearance may further be athletic equipment specific. For example a user may want to specify different avatars for a treadmill and an elliptical machine. In another example a user may want to use the same avatar but wearing different clothing for different athletic equipment. In one or more arrangements an avatar may exist on a user s portable device on athletic equipment on a network site or combinations thereof. For example when a user is working out on a treadmill a user interface of the treadmill may display the user s avatar. The treadmill may receive avatar information from the user s portable device or from an athletic performance tracking site.

Various attributes of the avatar may change based on a user s athletic activity to provide motivation and encouragement. For example new clothes or shoes may be made available to the user s avatar if the user reaches certain goals. In another example an avatar may grow bigger or appear more muscular upon the user achieving various goals. In one or more arrangements avatar rewards e.g. shoes t shirts may be specific to a gym provider a gym location and or to classes or programs within a gym. According to another aspect avatar rewards may be defined by other users to help motivate a team member or friend.

In a group or challenge setting multiple avatars may be displayed in an interface to illustrate the progress of each user in the group or challenge. For example if two users are competing for a 10 miles run goal a user interface may display both avatars in relative position to one another based on how far each user has actually run. This may help motivate users to close the gap if they are behind and to further increase a lead if they are leading in the challenge. In another example if two users are teammates trying to achieve a common goal a first user may send a reward or words of encouragement to a second user if the first user sees via the avatars that the second user is falling behind in training Users may view performance information by hovering over or otherwise interacting with an avatar. Users may also share or otherwise publish their avatar to other users or the general public to show their athletic progress.

Depending on a location or circumstance users may be able to view other users avatars. For example if a user is in a spinning class avatars for all members of the class may be shared with the class. Alternatively avatars of treadmill runners in a gym may be shared with all other treadmill runners. Users may elect to participate in avatar and athletic performance information sharing or may set their athletic information to private. The sharing of avatars and associated athletic performance data may encourage or motivate users.

Data collected by athletic performance tracking sites or by athletic equipment may be shared locally e.g. at that machine or across locations. For example athletic data may be shared by all machines in a particular gym location or across all gym locations of a gym provider. In another example data collected in the past 24 hours or some other time frame may be used as comparison data for a current user. That is a user may be able to compare his or her current athletic activity to an average of athletic activity performed in the past 24 hours by other users. Athletic data may further be shared across gym locations of different gym providers. In one arrangement an athletic performance tracking site may receive athletic performance data from one or more gym locations. The athletic performance tracking site may be configured to filter the received data and sort the information based on location gym provider user athletic equipment used and or combinations thereof. Once filtered data may then be transmitted to various locations. For example all data for a gym provider may be sent to all locations of that gym provider. In another example data for spinning classes for all gym providers may be shared. Alternatively or additionally gym locations or gym providers may collect their own data e.g. in a back office system and filter what is to be shared with other gym locations or providers.

While the invention has been described with respect to specific examples including presently preferred modes of carrying out the invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are numerous variations and permutations of the above described systems and techniques that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

