---
title: System for authorizing electronic communication of confidential or proprietary data to external entities
abstract: A platform for providing authorization of electronic communication of secure data to external entities, e.g., vendors, third parties or the like based on an assessment of the data risk associated with communicating the data to the external entity. The secure data that is to be communicated, in the form of specific data items, are identified as well as the associated security standards. The external identity is assessed to ensure their capabilities to properly meet the enterprise/sender's information security, business privacy and continuity standards, along with applicable industry standards. Based on the results of the assessment, remediation action may be required to address critical vulnerabilities or recommendations may be presented to a decision-making entity to grant authorization to electronically communicate the data in question to the external entity. In response to granting authorization, secure communication channels are allocated and established to allow for communication of the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635034&OS=09635034&RS=09635034
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09635034
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150101
---
In general embodiments of the invention relate to managing the communication of data and more particularly a system that authorizes electronic communication of confidential and or proprietary data to an external entity such as a vendor or other third party.

In large enterprise businesses such as a financial institution it is imperative that confidential and or proprietary data be properly protected against exposure otherwise referred to as a data breach. In the financial institution environment this includes customer data such as social security numbers names addresses telephone numbers and the like as well as account related data such as account numbers account balances transaction entries and the like.

In the large enterprise environment the enterprise needs to not only ensure that their confidential proprietary data is properly and securely protected internally i.e. with the physical and network confines of the enterprise but also the enterprise must ensure that confidential proprietary data is properly secured by external entities that receive the data from the enterprise. In the financial institution setting external entities may include vendors i.e. entities in a contractual relationship with the financial institution and other non contracting third party entities for example other financial institutions or the like. The financial institution must ensure that the external entity has the proper mechanisms procedures and governance in place to not only receive confidential proprietary data but also properly store such data to prevent exposure. Moreover in instances where the external entity is implementing the Internet or a mobile platform to host the confidential proprietary data the financial institution or any other enterprise must ensure that the proper mechanisms procedures and governance are in place to securely host the confidential proprietary data. In this regard the enterprise must be able to manage the risk of surrounding the use of the confidential proprietary data by an external entity i.e. outside of the enterprise s firewall .

Current practices within such large enterprises which seek to ensure protection of confidential proprietary data by external entities tend to be unreliable and inconsistent. In this regard assessments of the external entities by the enterprise tend to occur sporadically or reactively i.e. in response to a compromise of the data at the external entity or the like . Moreover proper procedures may not be in place at the enterprise to ensure that consistent review and approval of external entities occurs.

Therefore a need exists to develop systems apparatus computer program products methods and the like that provide a reliable and effective means for ensuring the protection security and confidentiality of data that is electronically communicated to external entities. The desired systems apparatus computer program products methods and the like should establish activities within the enterprise that ensure compliance to enterprise mandates and require external entities to implement enterprise aligned information security policies standards and or baselines.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatus systems computer program products methods or the like for authorizing electronic communication of confidential and or proprietary data to external entities. In this regard the present invention relies on a triggering event such as contract related action e.g. executing a contract or statement of work modifying a contract renewing a contract or the like and the need for data to be transmitted as the impetus to initiating a validation process assessment of the external entity. The external entity assessment requires knowledge of the data specifically the data fields being communicated to the external entity and the mechanisms procedures governance and the like that the external entity has over the data once the data is received by the external entity. In the event that the external entity implements the data in an Internet or mobile application the assessment may include proper mechanisms procedures governance to host the data in such a framework. If the results of the assessment show critical vulnerabilities corrective actions must be implemented prior to recommending that data be authorized for communication. The results of the assessment are communicated to enterprise management such as an information officer or the like for granting denying the right to electronically communicate the data to the external entity. Once approved proper secure electronic communication channels are established to securely communicate the data to the external entity.

Additionally embodiments of the present invention provide for ongoing assessments of the external entity throughout the life of the relationship between the external entity and the enterprise. Maintenance assessments or the like may be conducted on the external entity based on a predetermined time period lapses or the occurrence of a triggering event e.g. a compromise at the external entity or the like . Off boarding assessments or the like may be conducted on the external entity based on a triggering event such as expiration cancellation invalidation of a contract. Such off boarding assessments insure that data is properly and securely returned purged or the like and that communication channels are terminated.

An apparatus for granting authorization to electronically communicate secure data to an external entity defines first embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. The apparatus further includes a data communication authorization module that is stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The module includes an external entity and secure data information gathering application configured for in response to a triggering event that requires electronic communication of secure data to an external entity receiving user inputs that define first information associated with the external entity and second information associated with the secure data. The module further includes a validation application configured for managing a process for validating the external entity for electronically communicating the secure data to the external entity such that the process for validating is based at least in part on the first and second information. In addition the module includes a data transmission application configured for in response to validating the external entity and granting permission to communicate the secure data establishing a secure communication channel to communicate the secure data to the external entity.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the process for validating the external entity further includes determining if 1 the external entity 2 a data hosting application implemented by the external entity to host the secure data and 3 data elements in the secure data are currently approved for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity. In such embodiments of the apparatus the process for validating the external entity may further include based on the determination that at least one of 1 the external entity 2 the data hosting application and 3 the data elements in the secure data are currently unapproved for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity assessing control functions in place at one or more facilities associated with the external entity. In such embodiments of the apparatus assessing the control functions further comprises verifying that the external entity meets or exceeds 1 internal information security standards 2 internal business privacy standards 3 internal continuity standards and 4 industry standards. In other such embodiments of the apparatus the process for validating the external entity may further include assessing vulnerabilities associated with a data hosting application e.g. Internet based mobile or the like implemented by the external entity to host the secure data.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the triggering event that triggers the data communication authorization process is a contract related activity or action including one of 1 executing a new contract or statement of work with the external entity 2 renewing a previously executed contract with the external entity and 3 modifying an existing contract with the external entity.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the data communication authorization module further includes a maintenance application configured for managing a maintenance process for assuring that the external entity remains a validated external entity for electronically communicating the secure data to the external entity. In such embodiments of the apparatus the maintenance application may be further configured for in response to a triggering action or expiration of a validation period generating and communicating validation alerts that notify one or more parties that re validation of the external entity is necessary.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the data communication authorization module further comprises an off boarding application configured for in response to a second triggering activity managing a termination process that assures that the secure connection channel is deactivated. In such embodiments of the apparatus the second triggering activity may be one of 1 a contract expiring 2 cancellation of a contract or 3 a security compromise by the external entity.

A method for granting authorization to electronically communicate secure data to an external entity defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes in response to a triggering event that requires electronic communication of secure data to an external entity receiving by a computing device processor user inputs that define first information associated with the external entity and second information associated with the secure data. The method further includes managing a process for validating the external entity for electronically communicating the secure data to the external entity such that the process for validating is based at least in part on the first and second information. In addition the method includes in response to validating the external entity and granting permission to communicate the secure data establishing a secure communication channel to communicate the secure data to the external entity.

In specific embodiments of the method managing the process for validating the external entity further includes determining by a computing device processor if 1 the external entity 2 a data hosting application implemented by the external entity to host the secure data and 3 data elements in the secure data are currently approved for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity. In such embodiments of the method managing the process for validating may further include based on the determination that at least one of 1 the external entity 2 the data hosting application or 3 the data elements in the secure data are currently unapproved for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity assessing control functions in place at one or more facilities associated with the external entity. In such specific embodiments of the method assessing the control functions may further include verifying that the external entity meets or exceeds 1 internal information security standards 2 internal business privacy standards 3 internal continuity standards and 4 industry standards. While in other specific related embodiments of the method managing the process for validating the external entity further includes assessing vulnerabilities associated with a data hosting application implemented by the external entity to host the secure data.

In other specific embodiments of the method the triggering event is further defined as a contract related activity including one of 1 executing a new contract or statement of work with the external entity 2 renewing a previously executed contract with the external entity and 3 modifying an existing contract with the external entity.

In other specific embodiments the method includes managing a maintenance process for assuring that the external entity remains a validated external entity for electronically communicating the secure data to the external entity. In such embodiments of the invention managing the maintenance process further includes in response to a triggering action or expiration of a validation period generating and communicating by a computing device processor validation alerts that notify one or more parties that re validation of the external entity is necessary.

Moreover in other specific embodiments the method includes in response to a triggering activity managing a termination process that assures that the secure connection channel is deactivated.

A computer program product having a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to in response to a triggering event that requires electronic communication of secure data to an external entity receive user inputs that define first information associated with the external entity and second information associated with the secure data. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to manage a process for validating the external entity for electronically communicating the secure data to the external entity such that the process for validating is based at least in part on the first and second information. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to in response to validating the external entity and granting permission to communicate the secure data establish a secure communication channel to communicate the secure data to the external entity.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products herein described in detail below provide for authorizing electronic communication of secure data to external entities e.g. vendors third parties or the like based on an assessment of the data risk associated with communicating the data to the external entity. Thus embodiments of the invention provide efficiency reliability and consistency to the process of validating external entities in terms of their capacity to receive and properly store and or host secure data. Presently described embodiments identify the data that is be communicated and the associated security issues related to the data and assess the external entities ability to properly meet the enterprise sender s information security business privacy and continuity standards along with applicable industry standards. Based on the results of the assessment remediation action may be required to address critical vulnerabilities or recommendations may be presented to a decision making entity e.g. information security management to grant authorization to electronically communicate the data in question to the external entity.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Although some embodiments of the invention described herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be utilized by other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with financial institutions to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus e.g. a system computer program product and or other device a method or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product comprising a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code computer readable instructions embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples e.g. a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a time dependent access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other tangible optical or magnetic storage device.

Computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods or apparatuses the term apparatus including systems and computer program products . It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions which execute by the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

According to embodiments of the invention described herein various systems apparatus methods and computer program products are herein described for authorizing electronic communication of confidential and or proprietary data to external entities. In specific embodiments of the invention the communicator of the data is an enterprise such as a financial institution and the data may be customer related data such as personal information account information or the like. The external entity may be a vendor i.e. an entity having a contractual relationship with the enterprise or another third party that requires access to the data i.e. an entity that is not contractually bound to the enterprise .

According to embodiments of the invention a triggering event such as a contract related action e.g. executing a contract or statement of work modifying a contract renewing a contract or the like and the need for data to be transmitted acts as the impetus to initiating a validation process assessment of the external entity. The external entity assessment requires knowledge of the data specifically the data fields being communicated to the external entity and the mechanisms procedures governance and the like that the external entity has over the data once the data id received by the external entity. In the event that the external entity implements the data in an Internet or mobile application the assessment may include proper mechanisms procedures governance to host the data in such a framework. If the results of the assessment show critical vulnerabilities corrective actions may and in some embodiments must be implemented prior to recommending communication of the data. The results of the assessment are communicated to enterprise management such as an information officer or the like for granting denying the right to electronically communicate the data to the external entity. Once approved proper secure electronic communication channels are established to securely communicate the data to the external entity.

Additionally embodiments of the present invention provide for ongoing assessments of the external entity throughout the life of the relationship between the external entity and the enterprise. Maintenance assessments or the like may be conducted on the external entity based on a predetermined time period lapse or the occurrence of a triggering event e.g. a compromise at the external entity or the like . Off boarding assessments or the like may be conducted on the external entity based on a triggering event such as expiration cancellation invalidation of a contract. Such off boarding assessments insure that data is properly and securely returned purged or the like and that communication channels are terminated.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for granting authorization for electronic communication of data to an external entity in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event in response to a triggering event that requires electronic communication of secure data to an external entity user inputs are received at a data communication authorization application. The user inputs define first information associated with the external entity and second information associated with the secure data.

In specific embodiments of the method in which the external entity is a vendor the triggering event is a contract related activity or other event action that requires communication of secure data such as 1 executing a contract or statement of work SOW 2 modifying a contract 3 renewing a contract or the like. In other embodiment of the invention in which the external entity is another third party that does have a contractual relationship with the enterprise i.e. communicator of the secure data the triggering event is any activity or event that requires communication of secure data.

In other specific embodiments of the method the first information associated with the external entity includes external entity identifying information such as name enterprise assigned ID address and the like. In those embodiments in which the external entity is a vendor the first information may include a contract number. Additionally the first information may include internal and or external contact information such as but not limited to technical partner contact information a sourcing manager contact information a vendor manager and the like. In further specific embodiments of the method the second information associated with the secure data includes but is not limited to information that identifies the type of data e.g. corporate versus consumer proprietary versus confidential and the like the specific data elements required to be communicated e.g. social security numbers names home or business addresses telephone numbers account related information and the like the quantity of data records required and the like.

At Event a process is managed for validating the external entity for receiving the secure data. The process for validating the external entity is based at least in part on the inputted first information i.e. the vendor information and second information i.e. secure data information .

In specific embodiments of the method the process for validating includes determining if 1 the external entity and 2 the specific data elements in the secure data are currently approved i.e. validated for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity. In further embodiments of the invention in which the external entity implements a data hosting application i.e. Internet based mobile or the like to host the secure data the determination additionally includes determining if 3 the data hosting application is currently approved validated. If it is determined that 1 the external entity 2 the specific data elements in the secure data and when applicable 3 the data hosting application are currently approved validated the triggering event may not require further validation i.e. no onsite or otherwise assessment of the external entities control functions may be warranted at this time . For example if the triggering event is a contract related activity such as executing a new contract the new contract will not require further validation i.e. assessment of the external entities control functions . It should be noted that currency of approval takes into account that in certain embodiments of the invention approval validation of 1 the external entity 2 the specific data elements in the secure data and or 3 the data hosting application will be for a predetermined period of time such that once the pre determined period of time lapse the approval will lapse.

In specific embodiments of the method if a determination is made that any one of 1 the external entity or 2 the specific data elements in the secure data or when applicable 3 the data hosting application is not currently approved for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity an assessment of the control functions in place at the external entity is required. Such assessments which may entail an onsite assessment are undertaken to ensure that the external entity meets or exceeds the enterprise s standards for information security. In the financial institution environment such standards may include but are not limited to 1 information security standards 2 business privacy standards 3 continuity standards and 4 industry standards e.g. payment card industry standards mortgage industry standards and the like . In addition in those embodiments of the invention in which upon receipt by the external entity the secure data will be implemented in a data hosting application e.g. Internet based mobile application based or the like a vulnerability assessment of the application is conducted. It should be noted that vulnerability assessments of the control functions and vulnerability assessments of the data hosting applications may occur in parallel.

If the results of the assessments identify critical i.e. clear and present vulnerabilities in any of the areas of the external entities control functions which would put the secure data at risk the external entity is required to remediate the vulnerabilities before a recommendation can be made to information security management that the data is adequately protected at the external entity.

As a result of the validation assessments at the external entity a recommendation is provided to information security management such as a chief information officer associated with the line of business i.e. the project owner . The recommendation provided to information security management may be either 1 external entity meets information security standards and communication of secure data is recommended or 2 external entity fails to meet information security standards post or pre remediation and communication of secure data is not recommended. Information security management may then accept the recommendation i.e. authorize or deny communication of secure data to the external entity or in some embodiments the information security management may override the recommendation e.g. due to other business concerns authorize communication of secure data to the external entity in the absence a recommendation that the entity meets requisite standards .

At Event in response to validation assessment of the external entity and granting of permission i.e. management approval to communicate the secure data a secure communication channel is established between the enterprise and external entity to allow for the secure data to be securely communicated on a one time or ongoing basis to the external entity.

Referring to a more detailed flow diagram is presented of a method for managing the validation of external entities for the purpose of communicating secure data to the entities in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event a triggering event occurs that requires electronic communication of secure data to an external entity. As previously discussed the secure data may be proprietary and or confidential information for example in the financial institution environment the secure data may specifically be customer personal data or account related data. The external entity may be a vendor having a contractual relationship with the enterprise business or any other third party that requires the secure data. In those embodiments in which the external entity is a vendor the triggering act may be a contract related activity action such as executing a new contract or SOW modifying an existing contract or renewing a previous contract.

At Event a request to open a data communication authorization case is received and external entity and data element information are inputted. In specific embodiments of the invention the occurrence of the triggering event may automatically request the opening of a data communication authorization request. For example a system for managing contract formation between the enterprise and vendors may receive inputs that indicate that a contract SOW is being initiated with a vendor and that such contract will require communication of electronic data from the enterprise to the external entity. The contract management system may be in network communication with the data communication authorization system of the present invention such that the contract management system notifies the data communication authorization system of a need to open an authorization case and or automatically opens such a case in the data communication authorization system. In the event that a case is automatically opened the data communication authorization system may further be configured to notify predetermined personnel users who are responsible for inputting the external entry information and data element information in the system. In still further embodiments of the invention all or a portion of the external entity information and data element information may be communicated from and automatically inputted into the data communication authorization system from an ancillary system such as a contract management system or the like.

At Decision a determination is made as to whether an assessment of the external entity is required. The determination may be based on the external information the data element information and when applicable the data hosting application implemented by the external entity. In specific embodiments of the invention if the external entity and the data elements and where applicable the data hosting application are all currently approved no further assessment of the external entity s control functions are warranted and the method proceeds to Event where a recommendation to validate authorize the external entity to receive the secure data is provided to information security management. The determination that occurs at Decision may occur automatically based on information provided to the data communication authorization system or the determination may be manual in which instance information provided by the system may be relied upon.

If a determination is made that an assessment is required at Event a control function assessment is undertaken to assess the risk to the data in terms of the external entities ability to meet 1 information security 2 business privacy 3 continuity and 4 industry standards. Further at Event if the secure data is to be implemented by the external entity in an Internet based or mobile based application a vulnerability assessment of the data hosting application is undertaken to assess the risk vulnerabilities associated with the application. It should be noted that while the assessments are shown to occur in parallel in practice the assessments may occur simultaneously or sequentially. In specific embodiments the assessments may be manual requiring designated personnel to make an onsite visit to the external entity. In other embodiments of the invention the assessment may be fully or partially automated. For example the data communication authorization system may include a database of external entities current control functions. While in other embodiments of the invention an assessment notification may go out to the external entity with instructions for self assessment and or for the external entity to upload assessment documentation to a review portal for designated enterprise personnel to review as a means of conducting at least a portion of the assessment.

At Decision a determination is made as to whether any critical vulnerabilities are evident in the control function and or the data hosting hosting application s which would put the secure data at risk. According to specific embodiments such determinations may be automated and or made manually. If critical vulnerabilities are identified determined at Event remedial actions are performed to address and or correct the critical vulnerabilities. In the event that the remedial actions are unable to correct the critical vulnerabilities the recommendation that is subsequently provided to IS management at Event may be a recommendation to not proceed with authorizing the electronic communication of the data to the external entity. If no critical vulnerabilities are identified at Event a recommendation is provided to IS management to allow for the electronic communication of the data to the external entity.

At Event a determination is made based on the recommendation whether to grant authorization permission to communicate the date to the external entity. In specific embodiments of the invention the determination is made manually by designated personnel within information security management. In such embodiments the invention may provide for a portal dashboard that the user may access to render such decisions. The portal dashboard may be configured to status all pending decisions and provide the user decisioner with network access to all information relevant to making the decision e.g. assessment results critical vulnerabilities corrective actions performed outstanding issues vulnerabilities and the like . In certain embodiments in which the assessments result in a recommendation to not proceed with communication of the data to the external entity the user decisioner may override the recommendation based on a business decision or the like. In such instances the user decisioner provides inputs to the system that record the reasons for the override. In other embodiment of the invention the determination as to whether to grant permission authorize the communication of the data may be an automated decision based on the results of the assessment.

If permission is not granted at Event communication of the secure data is denied. In those embodiments in which a contract is being executed modified or renewed denial of the data communication may cause the contract to be avoided or modified. If permission is granted at Event information technology personnel are relied upon to establish a secure data transmission connection with the external entity and communication of the data is initiated. In specific instances the data communication may be one time only however in many instances the data communication will occur over time either on demand on a regular schedule or automatically based on generation of the data for example for the life of the contract.

Additionally once authorization has been provided to communicate the secure data to the external entity at Event periodical maintenance assessments may be performed to assure that the external entity is currently adhering to control function and data hosting application standards. In specific embodiments a triggering event may prompt a maintenance assessment. The triggering event may be lapse of specified time period e.g. every six months every twelve months or the like notification of a change in data hosting applications notification of a compromise breach at the external entity or the like. The subsequent maintenance assessment may be automated manual or a combination of manual and automated assessments. If critical vulnerabilities are identified during the maintenance corrective action will be required. The results of the maintenance assessments may be presented to information security management for denial approval of continued authorization to communicate the secure data. In specific embodiments if continued authorization validation is denied the denial may invalidate cancel the contract or require modification of the contract.

At Event at the expiration of the lifecycle of the relationship with the external entity and or expiration of the contract associated with the need to communicate the data off boarding is performed which assures that the secure connection is terminated with the external entity and assures that the external entity has either properly returned secure data to the enterprise and or purged deleted the data from storage locations.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured for granting authorization to electronically communicate secure data to an external entity in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. The apparatus which may include more than one physical device or unit is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as data communication authorization module and the like.

The module includes case submission application that is configured to in response to a triggering event that requires electronic communication of secure data to an external entity receive case requester i.e. user inputs that define first information associated with the external entity and second information associated with the secure data .

As previously discussed in specific embodiments of the apparatus in which the external entity is a vendor the triggering event is a contract related activity or action that requires communication of secure data . In other embodiment of the invention in which the external entity is another third party that does have a contractual relationship with the enterprise i.e. communicator of the secure data the triggering event is any activity or event that requires communication of secure data .

The module additionally includes validation assessment application that is configured to manage and track a process for validating authorizing the external entity to receive the secure data . The process for validating the external entity is based at least in part on the inputted first information i.e. the vendor information and second information i.e. secure data information . The validation assessment application provides for capturing storing and tracking the results of any assessments of the external entity required to validate the external entity.

As previously discussed in specific embodiments of the apparatus a manual automated or blended manual and automated assessment of the control functions in place at the external entity is required. Such assessments which may entail an onsite assessment are undertaken to ensure that the external entity meets or exceeds the enterprise s standards for information security. In the financial institution environment such standards may include but are not limited to 1 information security standards 2 business privacy standards 3 continuity standards and 4 industry standards e.g. payment card industry standards mortgage industry standards and the like . In addition in those embodiments of the invention in which upon receipt by the external entity the secure data will be implemented in a data hosting application e.g. Internet based mobile application based or the like a vulnerability assessment of the application is conducted. It should be noted that vulnerability assessments of the control functions and vulnerability assessments of the data hosting applications may occur in parallel.

If the results of the assessments identify critical i.e. clear and present vulnerabilities in any of the areas of the external entities control functions which would put the secure data at risk the external entity is required to remediate the vulnerabilities before a recommendation can be made to information security management that the data is adequately protected at the external entity.

The module additionally includes data communication application that is configured to in response to validating the external entity and granting permission to communicate the secure data manage a process for establishing a secure communication channel with the external entity that is established between the enterprise and external entity to allow for the secure data to be securely communicated on a one time or ongoing basis to the external entity.

Referring to a more detailed block diagram is presented of the apparatus which is configured for scheduling allocating and tracking work assignments in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computing device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of one or more computing devices.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute algorithms such as routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as data communication authorization module and routines sub modules associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with data communication authorization module and related algorithms sub algorithms sub modules thereof.

Computer platform may additionally include communications module not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing and maintaining a network communication connection.

As previously discussed in relation to the memory of apparatus stores data communication authorization module . The module includes case submission application that is configured to in response to a triggering event that requires electronic communication of secure data to an external entity receive case requester i.e. user inputs that define first information associated with the external entity and second information associated with the secure data .

As previously discussed in specific embodiments of the apparatus in which the external entity is a vendor the triggering event is a contract related activity or action that requires communication of secure data such as executing a contract or Statement Of Work modifying a contract or renewing a contract . In other embodiments of the invention in which the external entity is another third party that does not have a contractual relationship with the enterprise i.e. communicator of the secure data the triggering event is any activity or event that requires communication of secure data .

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the first information associated with the external entity includes external entity identifying information such as name enterprise assigned ID address and the like. In those embodiments in which the external entity is a vendor the first information may include a contract number. Additionally the first information may include internal and or external contact information such as but not limited to technical partner contact information a sourcing manager contact information a vendor manager and the like. In further specific embodiments of the apparatus the second information associated with the secure data includes but is not limited to information that identifies the type of data e.g. corporate versus consumer proprietary versus confidential and the like the specific data elements required to be communicated e.g. social security numbers names home or business addresses telephone numbers account related information and the like the quantity of data records required and the like.

The module additionally includes validation assessment application that is configured to manage and track a process for validating authorizing the external entity to receive the secure data . The process for validating the external entity is based at least in part on the inputted first information i.e. the vendor information and second information i.e. secure data information . The validation assessment application provides for capturing storing and tracking the results of any assessments of the external entity required to validate the external entity.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the validation process includes determining if 1 the external entity and 2 the specific data elements in the secure data are currently approved i.e. validated for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity . In further embodiments of the invention in which the external entity implements a data hosting application i.e. Internet based mobile or the like to host the secure data the determination additionally includes determining if 3 the data hosting application is currently approved validated. If it is determined that 1 the external entity 2 the specific data elements in the secure data and when applicable 3 the data hosting application are currently approved validated the triggering event may not require further validation i.e. no onsite or otherwise assessment of the external entities control functions may be warranted at this time . For example if the triggering event is a contract related activity such as executing a new contract the new contract will not require further validation i.e. assessment of the external entities control functions . It should be noted that currency of approval takes into account that in certain embodiments of the invention approval validation of 1 the external entity 2 the specific data elements in the secure data and or 3 the data hosting application will be for a predetermined period of time such that once the pre determined period of time lapse the approval will lapse.

In specific embodiments of the method if a determination is made that any one of 1 the external entity or 2 the specific data elements in the secure data or when applicable 3 the data hosting application is not currently approved for electronic communication of secure data to the external entity an assessment of the control functions in place at the external entity is required. Such assessment which may entail an onsite assessment is undertaken to ensure that the external entity meets or exceeds the enterprise s standards for information security. In the financial institution environment such standards may include but are not limited to 1 information security standards 2 business privacy standards 3 continuity standards and 4 industry standards e.g. payment card industry standards mortgage industry standards and the like . In addition in those embodiments of the invention in which upon receipt by the external entity the secure data will be implemented in a data hosting application e.g. Internet based mobile application based or the like a vulnerability assessment of the application is conducted. It should be noted that vulnerability assessments of the control functions and vulnerability assessments of the data hosting applications may occur in parallel.

If the results of the assessments identify critical i.e. clear and present vulnerabilities in any of the areas of the external entities control functions which would put the secure data at risk the external entity is required to remediate the vulnerabilities before a recommendation can be made to information security management that the data is adequately protected at the external entity.

The validation assessment application is further configured to receive management permission approval to authorize the communication of the secure data. In such embodiments the validation assessment application may provide for a portal dashboard that the user may access to render such decisions. The portal dashboard may be configured to status all pending decisions and provide the user decisioner with network access to all information relevant to making the decision e.g. assessment results critical vulnerabilities corrective actions performed outstanding issues vulnerabilities and the like . In certain embodiments in which the assessments result in a recommendation to not proceed with communication of the data to the external entity the user decisioner may override the recommendation based on a business decision or the like. In such instances the user decisioner provides inputs to the system that record the reasons for the override. In other embodiment of the invention the determination as to whether to grant permission authorize the communication of the data may be an automated decision based on the results of the assessment.

The module additionally includes data communication application that is configured to in response to validating the external entity granting permission to communicate the secure data manage a process for establishing a secure communication channel with the external entity that is established between the enterprise and external entity to allow for the secure data to be securely communicated on a one time or ongoing basis to the external entity.

In further embodiments of the apparatus the module includes a maintenance application not shown in configured for managing a maintenance process for assuring that the external entity remains a validated external entity for electronically communicating the secure data to the external entity. As such periodic assessments may be required to re validate the external entity data elements or data hosting based on the occurrence of a triggering event. The triggering event may be the lapse of a predetermined time period notification of a compromise breach at the external entity an update to the data hosting application a new data hosting application or the like. In specific embodiments of the invention maintenance application may be configured to in response to a triggering action or expiration of a validation period generating and communicating validation alerts that notify one or more parties that re validation re assessment of the external entity is necessary.

Moreover in further embodiments of the apparatus the module includes an off boarding application not shown in configured for in response to a triggering activity managing a termination process that assures that the secure connection channel is deactivated and that the secure data is returned to the enterprise or purged deleted or otherwise properly disposed of at the external entity. In such embodiments of the invention the triggering activity may be one of 1 a contract expiring 2 cancellation of a contract or 3 a critical security compromise breach by the external entity or the like.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products described above provide for authorizing electronic communication of secure data to external entities e.g. vendors third parties or the like based on an assessment of the data risk associated with communicating the data to the external entity. Thus embodiments of the invention provide efficiency reliability and consistency to the process of validating external entities in terms of their capacity to receive and properly store and or host secure data. Presently described embodiments identify the data that is be communicated and the associated security issues related to the data and assess the external entities ability to properly meet the enterprise sender s information security business privacy and continuity standards along with applicable industry standards. Based on the results of the assessment remediation action may be required to address critical vulnerabilities or recommendations may be presented to a decision making entity e.g. information security management to grant authorization to electronically communicate the data in question to the external entity.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.
