---

title: Automated alert management
abstract: Alerts may be received from an event monitoring system that monitors computing resources of a computer system. Based on an alert ruleset, an alert management module may determine whether to provide notification of the alert. If the alert management module decides to provide notification of the alert, then the alert management module may initiate the creation of an issue ticket corresponding to the alert in an issue tracking system. If the alert management module decides not to provide notification of the alert, then the alert management module may discard the alert.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219639&OS=09219639&RS=09219639
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09219639
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150309
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 736 606 entitled Automated Alert Management and filed on Jan. 8 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Aspects of the invention generally relate to computer event monitoring. In particular various aspects of the invention include an approach to managing alerts generated by an event monitoring system that monitors computing resources of a computing system.

Event monitoring systems may be employed to monitor the state health and performance of the computing systems. The computing systems may include various computing resources such as for example computing devices hardware components and software applications. An event monitoring system may be configured to generate alerts in response to events situations or conditions relating to the computing resources being monitored.

When an alert is generated the event monitoring system may send a message such as an email to an information technology IT support team to notify the IT support team of an issue with the computing system. In response to receipt of the alert message an IT support team member may review the alert message and if necessary create an issue ticket in an issue tracking system so that an IT support team member may subsequently address the issue identified in the alert.

For large organizations having enterprise wide computing systems effectively addressing incidents occurring at the computing system can be a challenge due to the volume of alerts generated by the event monitoring systems. In some circumstances IT support teams have been known to receive as many as 1 600 alerts per day. As a result IT support teams may devote a significant amount of time to simply reviewing alerts determining which alerts need to be addressed and creating issue tickets in the issue tracking system if necessary. Therefore a need exists for improved approaches to managing alerts generated by an event monitoring system.

In light of the foregoing background the following presents a simplified summary of the present disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

Alerts are received from an event monitoring system that monitors computing resources of a computer system. Based on an alert ruleset an alert management module determines whether to provide notification of the alert. If the alert management module provides notification of the alert then the alert management module may initiate the creation of an issue ticket corresponding to the alert in an issue tracking system. If the alert management module does not provide notification of the alert then the alert management module may discard the alert.

The alert management module may automatically provide notification of the alert when the alert is listed in the alert ruleset. If the alert is a duplicate alert then the alert management module might not provide notification of the duplicate alert. The alert management module may determine that the alert is a duplicate alert when a previous alert associated with the same computing resource was received within a predetermined time period prior to receipt of the alert.

The alert management module may also provide notification of the alert when the alert is associated with a first type of computing resource but not when the alert is associated with a second type of computing resource. Additionally even if the alert type of the alert is listed in the alert ruleset the alert management module might not automatically provide notification of the alert unless a secondary condition associated with the alert is satisfied. The alert ruleset may define and specify any secondary conditions respectively associated with the alert types listed in the alert ruleset.

The alert management module may also determine whether the issue ticket was successfully created in the issue tracking system. If the issue ticket was not successfully created the alert management module may update an exception log to indicate the issue ticket was not successfully created. The alert management module may also notify the IT support team member of the exception.

The alert ruleset may further specify a priority for the alert types listed in the alert ruleset. The alert management module may configure the issue tickets created for received alerts based on the priorities specified in the alert ruleset.

Aspects of this disclosure address one or more of the issues mentioned above by disclosing methods non transitory computer readable media and apparatuses for automatically managing alerts generated by an event monitoring system. Aspects of the disclosure may be provided in a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions to perform one or more of the process steps described herein.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. The Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As discussed above there is a need for improvements to the way an organization manages alerts generated by event monitoring systems that monitor the state health and performance of computing resources of a computing system.

In accordance with various aspects of this disclosure methods non transitory computer readable media and apparatuses are disclosed in which an alert management module may receive alerts generated by an event monitoring system and automatically process the alerts according to an alert ruleset. The alert management module may automatically create and configure issue tickets in an issue tracking system that correspond to the alerts received from the event monitoring system. In other words the alert management system automatically converts or transforms discrete alerts received from an event monitoring system into issue tickets of an issue tracking system which an IT support team may review to fix or maintain the computer system.

An event monitoring system refers to a computer system computer device or computer software application that monitors one or more computing resources of a computer system. Computing resources may be any computing device hardware component software application or service provided by or operating at the computer system. The event monitoring system may generate alerts in response to the state health performance activity or operation of the computing resources. The alerts may be for example in the form of email messages transmitted to the email accounts of IT support team members. The alert ruleset refers to a collection of instructions that define how the alert management module processes the alerts received from the event monitoring system. The alert ruleset identifies one or more types of alerts that may be received from the event monitoring system and includes information respectively associated with the alert types that indicates at least in part how the alert management module processes alerts of those alert types. IT support team members may selectively configure the alert ruleset such that the IT support team is only notified of alerts deemed important i.e. alerts the IT support team has an interest in.

I O module may include a microphone keypad touch screen and or stylus through which a user of the computing device may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output. Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to the processor for enabling the computing device to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by the computing device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . The processor and its associated components may allow the computing device to run a series of computer readable instructions to process and manage the alerts generated by an event monitoring system.

The computing device may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers such as terminals and . The terminals and may be personal computers or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device . Alternatively terminal and or may be a data store that is affected by the operation of the alert management module . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment the computing device is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed.

Additionally an application program used by the alert management module according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure may include computer executable instructions for invoking functionality related to processing and managing alerts generated by an event monitoring system.

The alert management module and or terminals or may also be mobile terminals such as smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs and the like which may include various other components such as a battery speaker and antennas not shown .

The disclosure is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the disclosure include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The disclosure may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked for example through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Referring to an illustrative alert management system for implementing methods according to the present disclosure is shown. As illustrated the alert management system includes an event monitoring system that monitors one or more computing resources of a computer system and an alert management module in signal communication with the event monitoring system . The alert management module is also in signal communication with an issue tracking system that manages issue tickets for issues associated with the computing system . In response to receipt of alerts from the event monitoring system the alert management module may automatically create issue tickets corresponding to the alert in the issue tracking system .

The alert management module may also be in signal communication with an alert log and an exception log . The alert log may include entries related to alerts received at the alert management module from the event monitoring system and the exception log may include entries relating to exceptions generated by the alert management module . The alert log and the exception log may be implemented as a database where log entries are stored as records of one or more database tables as a text file where log entries are stored as plain text or in any other format suitable for logging alerts and exceptions.

A notification module may be in signal communication with the alert log and the exception log . When the alert management module creates a new issue ticket for an alert the alert management module may also create a new entry in the alert log that indicates a new issue ticket was created. The notification module may read the alert log and notify an IT support team member e.g. via email that a new issue ticket has been created. If the alert management module generates an exception while processing an alert then the alert management module may create a new entry in the exception log detailing the exception. The notification module may read the exception log and notify an IT support team member e.g. via email of the exception.

An IT support team member may access the issue tracking system from a workstation or in signal communication with the issue tracking system . The workstation may be a workstation that is local relative to the issue tracking system or a workstation that is remote relative to the issue tracking system . Accordingly the remote workstation may access the issue tracking system via a computer network . The IT support team member may review the issue tickets of the issue tracking system to subsequently address the issues at the computing system that prompted the event monitoring system to generate the alerts.

Conventionally event monitoring systems may provide alerts to IT support team members as emails. Accordingly IT support team members may receive the alert emails at an email application running on a workstation or in signal communication with the event monitoring system . In this regard the alert management module may be implemented as an add on plug in or extension for the email client. The alert management module in this example may therefore intercept the alert emails received from the event monitoring system and process the alert emails such that the IT support team member does not receive the alert email itself. Instead the alert management module may automatically processes the alert email to either discard the alert or create an issue ticket for the alert in an issue tracking system . The notification module may notify an IT support team member e.g. via email when new issue tickets are created. In this way an IT support team member may only receive an email when new issue tickets are created rather than for every alert generated by the event monitoring system .

In the alert management system the event monitoring system the alert management module the notification module and the issue tracking system may each be any suitable server processor computer data processing device or combination thereof. Additionally the components of may be in signal communication with each other via one or more computer networks using one or more communication links .

The computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. The communications links may be any communications links suitable for communicating between the components of such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links and the like. The disclosure that follows may be implemented by one or more of the components in and or other components including other computing devices.

In some example implementations the alert management module may be configured to process alerts from a data center management system as commercially available and known to a person having ordinary skill in the art. Additionally the alert management module may in some examples be configured to communicate with a commercially available issue tracking system. It will be understood that the alert management module may be configured to communicate with alternative event monitoring systems as well as alternative issue tracking systems .

Referring to a flowchart of example method steps for automatically processing alerts received from the event monitoring system is shown. As discussed above an event monitoring system may be employed to monitor a computing system. The event monitoring system may generate an alert step in response to an issue with one of the computing resources of the computing system. The alert management module may receive the alert step from the event monitoring system.

In some example implementations the IT support team may only have interest in alerts from particular computing resources of the computing system. For example an IT support team may have interest in receiving notifications of alerts relating to an e mail server but not those relating to a mobile phone secure enterprise server or vice versa. Accordingly the alert management module may validate the alert step to determine whether the alert relates to a particular computing resource of interest. In this regard an alert may be a valid alert if the alert relates to a computing resource of interest and an alert may not be a valid alert if the alert does not relate to a computing resource of interest. If the alert is not a valid alert step then the alert management module may discard the alert step . If the alert is a valid alert step then the alert management module may continue processing the alert. It will be understood that the alert management module may be selectively configured to process alerts from one type of computing resource or multiple types of computing resources.

If the alert is a valid alert step then the alert management module may compare the alert to the alert ruleset step . As discussed further below with reference to the alert ruleset identifies one or more alert types and includes corresponding information that respectively indicates how the alert management module processes alerts of the identified alert types. If the alert ruleset does not include the alert type of the received alert step then the alert management module may discard the alert step . If the alert ruleset includes the alert type of the received alert step then the alert management module may continue processing the alert.

In some situations the event monitoring system may generate multiple alerts for the same issue. An IT support team may prefer to receive only one notification of the issue rather than multiple notifications for the same issue. Accordingly in some example implementations the alert management module may be configured to check if a received alert is a duplicate alert step . The alert management module may be selectively configured to employ various approaches to identify a duplicate alert. For example if a previous alert associated with the same computing resource was received within a predetermined time period prior to an alert then the alert management module may determine that the alert is a duplicate alert. The predetermined time period may be for example around fifteen minutes prior to receipt of the alert. It will be understood that the alert management module may be selectively configured to employ additional or alternative criteria to determine whether an alert is a duplicate alert. If the alert management module determines that the alert is a duplicate alert step then the alert management module may discard the alert step . If the alert management module determines that the alert is not a duplicate alert step then the alert management module may continue processing the alert.

In some but not all example implementations the alert ruleset may specify a secondary condition for an alert type that must be satisfied for the alert management module to continue processing the alert. Secondary conditions will be discussed in further detail below with reference to . Not every alert type may be associated with a secondary condition however. Accordingly the alert management module may check the alert ruleset to determine if the alert ruleset defines a secondary condition for the alert type of the alert step . If the alert ruleset defines a secondary condition for the alert type step then the alert management module may determine if the secondary condition is satisfied step . If the alert management module determines that the secondary condition is not satisfied step then the alert management module may discard the alert step .

If the alert ruleset does not define a secondary condition for the alert type step or if the alert management module determines that the secondary condition is satisfied step then the alert management module may create a new entry in the alert log step and initiate creation of an issue ticket in the issue tracking system step for the alert. The alert management module may extract alert information from the alert for example the alert type the computing resource associated with the alert and timestamp information indicating when the alert management module received the alert. The alert management module may utilize this alert information when creating the entry in the alert log and when configuring the issue ticket in the issue tracking system. The alert management module may directly communicate with the issue tracking system such that the alert management module itself creates and configures the issue ticket. In an alternative implementation the alert management module may initiate the creation of the issue ticket by transmitting one or more instructions to another module that directly communicates with the issue tracking system to create and configure the issue ticket. The alert management module may utilize an application programming interface API provided by the issue tracking system to create and configure the new issue ticket for the alert. It will be understood that the alert management module may be selectively configured to create and configure issue tickets in one or more types of issue tracking systems.

In some circumstances the alert management module may be unable to create the issue ticket in the issue tracking system. For example if the issue tracking system is offline or otherwise unavailable then an IT support team member may need to be notified that an alert was received for which a ticket should have been generated but was not generated. Accordingly if the alert management module failed to successfully create an issue ticket in the issue tracking system step then the alert management module may generate an exception step . In some example implementations the alert management module may add new exception log entry to the exception log as discussed above with reference to . A notification module may read the exception log and send a notification to an IT support team member step in order to inform the IT support team member of the failure to create the new issue ticket for the alert. If the alert management module successfully created the issue ticket for the alert step then the notification module may send a notification to an IT support team member that a new issue ticket has been created step . The notification module may read the alert log and send a notification to an IT support team member in order to inform the IT support team member of the new issue ticket. The notifications may be for example email messages. Having received notification of the new issue ticket the IT support team member may utilize the issue tracking system to review the issue ticket and take appropriate action to address the issue that prompted the alert. The issue ticket may be transmitted via the issue tracking system to a display device for display to the user step .

Referring now an example of an implementation of an alert ruleset is shown. As mentioned above the alert ruleset refers to a collection of instructions that define how the alert management module processes alerts received from the event monitoring system. In this regard the alert ruleset may be for example a configuration file a properties file or the like and the alert ruleset may be stored at a memory of the alert management system such as memory in .

The alert types shown in the example alert ruleset of relate to alerts from an e mail server. For example the alert ruleset of lists alert types relating to connection availability or disk space issues that may occur at an e mail server. It will be understood that the alert ruleset may include additional or alternative alert types for additional or alternative types of computer system components.

The example alert ruleset in also includes information associated with the alert types that indicates how the alert management module processes an alert of the alert type listed. The associated information in this example includes a secondary condition and a priority associated with the alert type . It will be understood that the alert ruleset may include additional or alternative information respectively associated with the included alert types .

The alert management module compares a received alert to the alert ruleset in order to determine whether the alert ruleset includes the alert type of the received alert. If the alert type of the received alert is not included in the alert ruleset then the alert management module may discard the alert. If the alert type is included in the alert ruleset as shown by way of example in then the alert management module may continue processing the received alert. In this regard whether the alert type is included in the alert ruleset may be understood as a primary condition that must be satisfied for the alert management module to continue processing the alert.

As noted above the event monitoring system may provide alerts in the form of an email message and the alert management module may be implemented as an add on to an email client. Accordingly the alert management module may determine whether the alert ruleset includes the alert type based on information contained in the alert email message such as for example the subject of the alert email message. As shown by way of example in the alert ruleset is configured such that the alert ruleset includes at least part of the subject line of the corresponding alert email message received from the event monitoring system. Accordingly the alert management module in this example may extract the subject from the alert email message and compare the subject to the alert ruleset . If the alert ruleset includes the subject extracted from the alert email message then the alert management module may determine that the alert ruleset includes the alert type associated with the alert email message. In alternative implementations the alert management module may compare keywords extracted from the subject of the alert email message to keywords listed in the alert ruleset for the alert type . It will be understood that additional or alternative approaches may be selectively employed to determine whether the alert type for a received alert is included in the alert ruleset .

As also mentioned above in one example an alert type may also be associated with a secondary condition that must also be satisfied for the alert management module to continue processing the alert. If the secondary condition is not satisfied then the alert management module may discard the alert. The secondary condition may relate to the alert itself information contained in the alert or other information associated with the alert. As shown by way of example in the alert ruleset includes an alert type that indicates low disk space. In this example the IT support team may only have interest in receiving notifications of low disk space on particular hard drives e.g. the F drive or the G drive. Accordingly the alert ruleset in this example includes a secondary condition for the low disk space alert which specifies that the alert management module should continue processing the alert if the low disk space alert indicates either the F drive or the G drive. If the alert indicates that a drive other than the F drive or the G drive has low disk space then the alert management module may discard the alert as the secondary condition in this example would not be satisfied. It will be understood that some of the alert types identified in the alert ruleset may not include a secondary condition .

The priority associated with an alert type listed in the alert ruleset may indicate how to configure issue tickets created for alerts of the alert type . Priority may be specified for example as high medium or low as shown by way of example in . The alert management module may thus configure the corresponding issue ticket in the issue tracking system based on the priority indicated in the alert ruleset .

The alert ruleset may be selectively configured according to preferences or needs of an IT support team. An IT support team member may for example include in the alert ruleset only the alert types the IT support team is interested in receiving notifications of. Moreover an IT support team member may update the alert ruleset as needed to add new alert types remove alert types edit secondary conditions change priorities and so on. In this way the alert management system described provides IT support teams with the flexibility of conforming the alert ruleset to their particular IT practices.

In some circumstances the IT support team may wish to deactivate or disable the alert management module such that the alert management module does not notify the team of alerts generated by the event monitoring system. For example during routine maintenance computer systems may be taken offline which may trigger various alerts. In these situations the IT support team does not need to be notified of the alerts as the IT support team is already aware of the activity triggering the alerts. Accordingly the alert management module may be configured to be selectively enabled and disabled as needed.

An IT support team member may selectively toggle activation of the alert management module as needed step . If the alert management module is enabled step then toggling activation of the alert management module disables the alert management module step . If the alert management module is not enabled step i.e. disabled then toggling activation of the alert management module enables the alert management module step .

Automatically processing alerts as described above advantageously reduces the manual effort currently devoted to review and act upon received alerts. Additionally the duplicative efforts of IT support teams are advantageously minimized by automatically recognizing and discarding duplicate alerts as described above. Furthermore because IT support team members may selectively configure the alert ruleset according to preference or need the risk of missing important alerts is advantageously minimized. Automating the processing of alerts and the creation of corresponding issue tickets enables IT support teams to devote more time to fixing and maintaining the computer systems generating the alerts.

The present disclosures further provide technical advantages. As noted above conventional event management tools that monitor enterprise wide computing systems can potentially generate upwards of 70 000 alerts per month and upwards of 800 000 alerts per year. Accordingly significant amounts of computer storage processing power may be necessary to store and process the alerts. Moreover such a high volume of alerts can strain the capacity of email servers to provide alert emails to the IT support team. The alert management system provided mitigates these technical issues. In some circumstances the alert management system provided has been shown to reduce the amount of alert notifications by a factor of a hundred. Such an improvement advantageously reduces the computer storage processing power and server capacity necessary to maintain an alert management system for enterprise wide computing systems or additionally or alternatively permits the computing resources to be devoted to other tasks.

Aspects of the invention have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps illustrated in the illustrative figures may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps illustrated may be optional in accordance with aspects of the invention.

