---

title: Alternate authentication
abstract: A user may utilize an existing digital identity to authorize the user's access to security-enabled device operations, where the security-enabled device comprises a cryptographic chip. The device can receive a user authentication token from the digital user identification service, which authenticates a user's identity. Further, the security-enabled device can validate the user authentication token, and provide the user access to device security operations on the security-enabled device if the user authentication token is successfully validated, allowing the user to reset their security access information for the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613205&OS=09613205&RS=09613205
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09613205
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150817
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 431 794 filed on Apr. 29 2009 entitled ALTERNATE AUTHENTICATION at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

In the digital age individuals and enterprises often find a need to secure information and or hardware. For example smart cards are often used by enterprises and given to individuals to provide access to secure environments e.g. buildings networks financial accounts etc. . Further information can often be secured by utilizing computer based hardware comprise some form of cryptographic chip. A cryptographic chip typically provides a secure computing environment utilizing cryptographic services including authentication primitives to control access to data stored on a storage device. Access to a security enabled device usually involves a shared secret e.g. password set up between the device and a user. Further an administrator of the security enabled device may also have a shared secret to access the device in case the user forgets their access information or the device needs to be managed in another way.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Portable storage devices e.g. USB flash drive SD memory cards and other types of storage devices can comprise a cryptographic chip to provide security for the device whereby only by presenting necessary security information will a user be able to access information and or functionality provided on the device. Typical authentication systems for security enabled devices rely on shared secrets to access operation on the device. For example when a user first gets a device they or an administrator may set up a password that is a shared secret between the user and the device. In order to access device operations the user may be asked to supply the shared secret.

Further these types of security enabled devices e.g. particularly smart cards used to access systems are often managed by an administrator that can also access the information using an administrator s shared secret with the device. In the alternate the administrator may have a copy of the user s shared secret which can be used to access the device. When a user forgets and or loses their shared secret the device s authentication process may require alternate credentials or an administrator to reset the password. However there may not be an administrator available if the device is personally owned managed by the user e.g. an encrypted personal USB flash drive or smart card etc. . Further if the user forgets one set of login credentials it is likely they can forget lose an alternate set of login credentials.

As provided herein techniques and systems that provide a user with an alternate authentication for a security enabled device where a user s shared secret security information may have been lost or forgotten for example. A user may utilize an existing digital identity such as one that a user may have established with a web Internet based portal or over a private network or Intranet for example to provide user authentication to access device operations. Upon accessing the security enabled device by the alternate authentication a user may be able to reset their security access information e.g. password in place of their forgotten information for example.

In one embodiment authorizing user access to security enabled device operations where the security enabled device comprises a cryptographic chip can comprise receiving a user authentication token at the security enabled device. In this embodiment the token can comprise an digital user identification service s authentication of a user s identity. For example where the user authenticates their identity with an Internet based user identification service the service can provide the authentication to the device. Further the device can validate the user authentication token and provide the user access to device administrative operations on the security enabled device if the user authentication token is successfully validated allowing the user to reset the device s security access information e.g. password .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method may be devised that allows a user of security enabled device e.g. a USB flash drive having a secure computing environment with cryptographic services a smartcard SIM chip card other flash based memory etc. who may have forgotten their security access information e.g. username and or password to access the security enabled device using an alternate authentication. In one embodiment the alternate authentication can provide the user with access to security operations for the device that allow the user to reset their access information e.g. password . is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary method for using a previously configured digital identity as an alternate authentication for authorizing user access to security enabled device operations where the security enabled device comprises a cryptographic chip.

The exemplary method begins at and involves the security enabled device receiving a user authentication token where the token comprises an digital user identification service s authentication of a user s identity at . For example a user may already have an existing digital identity such as an Internet based identity that they use for online services e.g. Yahoo Windows Live Google . In one embodiment the security enabled device and the digital user identification service utilized by the user can have a security relationship where the digital user identification service agrees to authenticate a user and provide a user authentication token. The user authentication token can be presented to the security enabled device for example directly or through the user.

In one embodiment the existing security relationship may comprise an agreement that the user authentication provided by the digital user identification service meet a security threshold. For example a username and password used by a user of the digital user identification service may be compromised by online scammers e.g. phishing hacking other means . Therefore the security enabled device may wish to utilize a higher level of security to establish the user s identity. As an example the digital user identification service may issue a series of challenge response tests to the user using information that merely the user knows such as place of birth mother s maiden name and other person information in order to authenticate for the security enabled device. In this way in this embodiment a strong authentication can be used to authenticate the user.

At the security enabled device can validate the user authentication token provided by the digital user identification service. The user authentication token can comprise particular elements that enable validation by the security enabled device. In one embodiment the user authentication token can comprise a public key associated with the digital identification service which can be checked against a registered public key for the digital identification service to determine if the token came from the expected service e.g. the service used by the user .

Further in one embodiment the security enabled device may wish to check a level of security provided by the token to match it with the expected level of security for the user s authentication. Validating the token may comprise checking for s strong authentication of the user as described above. Additionally when validating the token the security enabled device may look for a signature from the digital user identification service that identifies the service for example as well as providing a particular level of user authentication security such as with a cryptographic service provider that provides particular contact information for the service.

In another embodiment the security enabled device may look for a trusted timestamp or some random once used string e.g. nonce with the token to mitigate a potential replay attack. A replay attack can be used by a malicious user attempting to hack into the security enabled device for example by resending old authentication information. In one embodiment information for creating a trusted timestamp for a trusted timestamp management infrastructure may be given to the digital user identification service so that they can include a trusted timestamp with the user authorization token. In turn the trusted timestamp can be validated by the device to determine whether the token was generated within an acceptable timeframe such as by the service and not an old token reused by a malicious user for example. In this example a malicious user attempting to use old information to access the device may be stopped as the timestamp can provide information that the token is expired or no longer valid.

Further in one embodiment a random string may be provided to the digital user identification service such as a cryptographic nonce that can be included with the token. For example the user may attempt to authenticate with the service the service can request a nonce from the device and the service can then return the nonce with or within the token to the device. In this embodiment the random string can be different for respective requests. In this way for example a malicious user attempting to use old information to access the device may be stopped as the string is merely used once. Additionally in another embodiment a trusted timestamp can be included with the random string thereby adding an additional layer of security to the token.

In the exemplary method at if the user authentication token is not validated the user cannot access the security enabled device at . However if the token is validated at the user is provided access to one or more of the security enabled device s administrative operations at . In one embodiment the security enabled device may merely provide the user access to administrative operations that can allow the user to change their security access information for the device. For example the security enabled device may utilize a username and password that allows a user to access the functionality and or information on the device. However a user utilizing the alternate authentication may have forgotten their login information and once a user authentication token is validated by the device can merely create a password.

In another embodiment the security enabled device may be set up to be used by multiple users for example having different levels of access to the operations and information on the device. In this embodiment once a user authentication token is authenticated the security enabled device may provide the user access to merely those administrative operations e.g. security information access of the device assigned to the user identity associated with the token. As an example a device may be used to store personal information about an individual including medical information. In this example a medical provider may not have the password or have forgotten lost it to access the medical information on the device. Here the medical provider can use an digital user identification service to access the security information reset operation of the device assigned to that identity and retrieve the medical information for an individual after resetting a password to access it. As an example the digital user identification service may comprise a service provided over a private medial Intranet where the medical provider has a pre existing digital identification set up with the service.

In one aspect a user may acquire a security enabled device that comprises a cryptographic chip and set it up so that the user s digital identity may be used as an alternate way to access the device. For example a hardware device such as a USB flash drive SD memory card SIM card smartcard or some other device capable of information storage may comprise a secure computing environment that provides cryptographic services including authentication primitives e.g. cryptographic algorithms to control access to the device. is an illustration of an exemplary portion of a method whereby a user sets up an exemplary device for alternate authentication using a digital identity.

At a user may acquire a new security enabled device for example to store encrypted data for use as a smart card for accessing a system or supplied by a medical provider for medical records. In this exemplary embodiment the user may initially set up the device by connecting it to a computer system and setting up a username and password at . For example typical security enabled devices issue a challenge response test to a user that uses a shared secret e.g. password known to both the user and device which can be set up by the user. In another embodiment merely a password may be used for example particularly where multiple users are not setup for device access.

At the user can decide whether they wish to set up an alternate authentication using an existing digital user identity. A user may decide not to set up an alternate identity merely relying on the user security information at to access the device operations. In one embodiment if the user chooses not to set up an alternate authentication and they forget their username and or password for example the device may provide an ability for an alternate administrative user to access the device to change the security access information. In this embodiment the administrative user such as a technical support service or individual administrator or even a spouse or another trusted individual for example may unlock the device to allow the user to update their security information for example.

If the user chooses to set up the device to use an alternate authentication at the user may select an alternate identification service to use . At the user may select from a list of digital user identification services with which the device has an existing security relationship. Alternately at the user may decide to use an existing identification from another service thereby initiating creation of a security relationship with the device .

For example the security enabled device may provide a list of digital identification services such as popular Internet based services e.g. Yahoo Windows Live Google with which it has pre existing security relationships. The user can choose which service they already have an existing identification account for example by selecting the link . Alternately for example if the user wishes to use a service that is not listed or in an embodiment where the device does not supply a suggested list of services the user can select a link that initiates setting up of the security arrangement. In this way a user can select which existing online identification to use for alternate authentication and the device can set up the security arrangement with the service.

In another aspect the alternate authentication may be used for example when a user forgets the login information such as in or if the device has been set up for multiple users. is a diagram illustrating one exemplary embodiment of a user utilizing the alternate authentication for accessing the device. It will be appreciated that the techniques described herein for accessing the device are not limited to these embodiments.

At a user of a security enabled device which has been previously set up to use an digital identity for alternate authentication attempts to access the device using their security information such as their username and password . However at they may have forgotten the password e.g. or PIN associated with their username thereby preventing them from accessing the device.

In this embodiment at the user can be presented with an option to select the alternate identity to access the device. In one embodiment the device display may present a functional link to the digital identification which the user can select at . In this embodiment the link can take the user to the service s website where the user can complete their identity authentication at . For example a user may be directed to a website where they have an existing user account. The website can ask the user to log in using their security information and or may ask them for additional information such as personal questions in order to confirm the user s identity for example. Further the security enabled device may request a strong authentication level which the service can provide by these additional questions.

At the digital user identification service can attempt to authenticate the user based on their information. If the user is not able to be authenticated access to the device will fail at . However if the user is authenticated by the service a user authentication token can be sent to the device at .

In an alternate embodiment the user may go to a website for the identification service independently from the device e.g. the device may not have a link to the service . Once at the service s website they can complete the user authentication which meets a level of security set by the device and the service can provide a user authentication token to the user. In this embodiment the user may then provide the token to the device for validation.

In the exemplary embodiment at the device attempts to validate the user authentication token provided by the digital service. As an example validation may include checking the service s signature public key trusted timestamp and nonce as well as the actual user authentication. If the validation fails access to the device for the user also fails at . However if the device is able to validate the user authentication token the device can provide access to administrative operations for example to change the security information at .

A system may be devised that allows a user of a security enabled device for example using a cryptographic chip e.g. that may not be managed by an administrator merely the user to access the device using alternate authentication e.g. alternate from a username and password . is a component block diagram of an exemplary system that provides a user with alternate authentication for accessing security enabled device administrative operations e.g. to reset a password using a previously configured digital identity such as those used to access popular Internet service sites private digital identifications set up on a private network or those that may be set up on an Intranet.

A user may have previously set up a digital identification with an existing digital service . For example many popular online web portals e.g. MSN Live Yahoo Google online social networking sites e.g. Facebook MySpace LinkdIn and many other online or network services may utilize user identities that are authenticated by the digital services user authentication e.g. Internet based user identification service . In this example when moving about the Internet a user may be asked to establish their identification at various sites in order to retrieve emails buy things and interact with others.

The exemplary system can utilize these relationships to provide an alternate authentication for a security enabled device . The exemplary system comprises a user authentication token validator which is configured to validate a user authentication token for the security enabled device that uses a cryptographic chip. In the exemplary system the user authentication token comprises a digital user identification service s authentication of a user s identity. As an example in this embodiment the digital user identification service already has a relationship with the user whereby the service can authenticate a user and provide the device with a user authentication token . The token can then be used to validate the user with the device .

In this embodiment the digital user identification service would have a pre existing security arrangement with the security enabled device. For example in order for the device to trust a token from the service that authenticates the user an arrangement can be made prior to first using the alternate authentication where certain security criteria are met. Some examples of security information can include but not be limited to a signature identifying the service a shared random security string and using a trusted time authentication framework to prevent unauthorized users from accessing the device .

The exemplary system further comprises one or more device security operation components that are configured to become accessible to a user upon validation of the user authentication token by the user authentication token validator and to provide the user with an ability to reset their security access information for the device . For example the security enabled device may comprise a plurality administrative functions e.g. different security login info for different users separate user storage areas e.g. for storing and accessing information for different users and other security enabled functions e.g. smart card access for other systems . In one embodiment the token can merely provide access to an operation that allows the user to change reset a password for the one they forgot for example that is assigned to their particular user ID.

In one embodiment the cryptographic chip can be configured to provide access to a user without a direct shared secret. For example typical cryptographic chips utilize a shared secret challenge response test to get through the security. In this example either the user provides a username and password or alternately if they forget their information an administrator can access it by providing a username and password e.g. or looking up the user s information and providing it to the user . Here the cryptographic chip is configured to allow an alternate authentication of an digital identification using an authentication token instead of or as well as a shared secret.

In the exemplary embodiment the user authentication token can comprise an identification that is associated with one or more particular device security operation components and is configured to allow a user to access merely those device security operation components associated with it. For example the security enabled device may be set up so that more than one user can access the device whereas respective users may be able to access merely those areas assigned to the user. In one embodiment when a user authenticates their identification using the digital user identification service the service can include a user identification with the user authentication token . In this way for example the device s validator can validate the user and grant access to the device security operations assigned to that particular user ID thereby allowing the user to reset merely their password for device access.

In the exemplary embodiment the device may further comprise an opt in component that is configured to allow a user to select whether an digital user identification service s authentication is used to access the security enabled device. For example a when setting up the device the user can decide whether to allow access to the device using an alternate authentication by activating the opt in component . In this example if the user activates the opt in component they may be asked to select a specific digital user identification service that has a pre existing security arrangement with the device . Otherwise the device may need to initiate a security arrangement with an alternate service with which the user has a pre existing online identity for example.

In the exemplary embodiment the device may further comprise a device access component configured to allow user access to the security enabled device using shared secret security information. For example while the exemplary system may provide an ability for a user to access the device s security operations using a user authentication token a user may also be able to access the device using a username and password. Further the device may provide an ability for an administrator shared secret as well as multiple user shared secret information. These shared secrets e.g. usernames and passwords can be stored on the device .

In this embodiment the device can further comprise a tracking component that is configured to maintain a list of users and or user groups allowed to access the security enabled device and the device operation security components allowed to be accessed by the respective users user groups for example to reset their passwords. As described above the device may be setup to allow multiple users to access it whereby respective users have access to certain areas. The tracking component may store a list of users and associated device security operations that respective users are allowed to access to update their security access information. For example where a device may be used to store personal medical information a hospital may have an online account with which the device has a security relationship allowing the hospital access particular health records on the device in an emergency.

Further in this embodiment the device operations may comprise administrative components and functionality components . For example the device may be setup in such a way as to merely allow the alternate authentication to provide access to the administration components so that a user can create or change a password.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

