---

title: Push-based cache invalidation notification
abstract: In one embodiments, one or more first computing devices receive updated values for user data associated with a plurality of users; and for each of the user data for which an updated value has been received, determine one or more second systems that each have subscribed to be notified when the value of the user datum is updated and each have a pre-established relationship with the user associated with the user datum; and push notifications to the second systems indicating that the value of the user datum has been updated without providing the updated value for the user datum to the second systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411732&OS=09411732&RS=09411732
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09411732
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151020
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 328 985 filed Jul. 11 2014 entitled Push Based Cache Invalidation Notification now U.S. Pat. No. 9 203 919 issuing Dec. 1 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 955 filed Apr. 20 2010 entitled Push Based Cache Invalidation Notification now U.S. Pat. No. 8 825 962 B1 issuing Sep. 2 2014 the disclosure of each is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to cache invalidation notifications and more specifically relates a push based cache invalidation notification scheme where the notifications are only pushed to selected entities and or where multiple cached data are invalidated with a single notification.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between their members including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent in recent years. In particular social networking websites allow their members to communicate information more efficiently. For example a member may post contact information background information job information hobbies and or other member specific data to a location associated with the member on a social networking website. The social networking website may store such member specific data in a database. Often the information provided by a member may form the member s profile and may be stored in association with the member. A member may update his stored information at any time. Other members may review the posted data by browsing member profiles or searching for profiles including specific data. The social networking websites also allow their members to associate themselves with other members thus creating a web of connections among the members of the social networking website. These connections among the members may be exploited by the website to offer more relevant information to each member in view of the members own stated interests in their connections.

In addition to member specific information social networking websites may also maintain non member specific information that may be used to better serve their members needs. For example advertisers may partner up with a social networking website to provide information on products or services to the members of the social networking website. The advertisers may target their advertisements to specific members whose interests best align with the products or services they provide. In this case the advertisers may store information relating to specific products or services with the social networking website so it is readily available. As another example a social networking website may maintain information on various topics that may be of interest to its members so that such information may be used in connection with servicing its members needs.

The present disclosure generally relates to cache invalidation notifications and more specifically relates a push based cache invalidation notification scheme where the notifications are only pushed to selected entities and or where multiple cached data are invalidated with a single notification.

In particular embodiments one or more first computing devices receive updated values for user data associated with a plurality of users and for each of the user data for which an updated value has been received determine one or more second systems that each have subscribed to be notified when the value of the user datum is updated and each have a pre established relationship with the user associated with the user datum and push notifications to the second systems indicating that the value of the user datum has been updated without providing the updated value for the user datum to the second systems.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the user may log into the social networking system via his account by providing for example his correct login ID or username and password.

When a user first registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify a list of other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends and the list may be included in the user s profile. The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile. In addition to the user explicitly selecting or identifying third party systems relationships between a user and third party systems may be established automatically by the social networking system e.g. based on user actions performed in connection with the social networking system or the third party systems .

The user may provide specific pieces of information at the time the user registers for his account or at a later time. The user may also update specific pieces of information at any time. For example when the user moves he may update his contact information. Or the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend. A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts.

The information included in the user profile may be used to better service the user s needs. For example the social networking system may customize the interactions of the system with a user using the information in the user s profile. Since a user profile generally includes information relating to a specific user such information may be referred to as user specific information or user data . In particular embodiments the user data may also include data concerning the user that is related to a social network to which the user belongs including but not limited to the user s stated interests connections to other people or entities applications virtual credit balance posting content commenting liking online actions or activities social graph data and affinity coefficient information.

In addition to the user specific information a social networking system may also store non user specific information or non user data such as data concerning the system itself. Such information generally is not related to any specific user but may nevertheless be used by the social networking system in connection with providing services to its users. The non user data usually are not stored in connection with any specific users. Similar to the user data the non user data may also be updated from time to time to reflect the most recent circumstances surrounding the social networking system and its users.

Sometimes a social networking system may partner up with one or more third party systems so that together they may provide more services to the users of the social networking system. For example while a social networking system s main focus is to enable its users to have social interactions with each other the social networking system may partner up with an online gaming system whose main focus is to enables its users to play computer games on the Internet e.g. through a web browser . The two systems each provide their own services to the users and yet together they may provide more services to their users than they are able to individually. In this case a user of the social networking system who has an account with the social networking system already may play the computer games provided by the partner online gaming system through his account with the social networking system and without having to register for a separate account with the online gaming system. In addition the social networking system may share some or all of the user s information as well as some of the non user information stored with the social networking system with the online gaming system so that the online gaming system may use such information to customize its interactions with the user and improve the game playing experience for the user.

To support such interactions the social networking system may support a set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs that allow third party sites controlled access to user data. In particular embodiments when a social networking system shares its stored user or non user data with its partner third party systems the third party systems may each store a copy of the shared data locally i.e. the third party systems may cache the shared data for themselves . This may help improve the performance of the systems as the third party systems do not need to retrieve the shared data from the social networking system each and every time the shared data are needed but may use their own cached copies of the shared data instead.

In particular embodiments database may be communicatively connected with one or more databases storage units memory cache or other suitable types of data stores such as databases A B and C associated with the third party systems. Each of databases A B and C may include any number of storage units. In particular embodiments each of databases A B and C is associated with a third party system partnered with the social networking system. In particular embodiments each third party system may provide various services in the form of software applications and more specifically network based software applications that may be executed in connection with client applications such as web browsers as well as extensions and plug ins to such web browsers. For example the third party system associated with database A may provide a set of network based software applications A the third party system associated with database B may provide a set of network based software applications B and the third party system associated with database C may provide a set of network based software applications C.

The social networking system may have one or more users such as users A B and C. Each of users A B and C may have registered for an account with the social networking system and may have an associated user profile that includes information i.e. user data relating to user A B or C. In particular embodiments the user data may be stored in database . Users A B and C may update or have updated by others various aspects of their user specific information stored in database through the social networking system at any time. In addition the non user data stored in database may also be updated through the social networking system at any time.

In particular embodiments users A B and C may interact with any of software applications A B C provided by the third party systems. In particular embodiments as users of the social networking system users A B and C may interact with any of software applications A B C through their respective accounts with the social networking system. In particular embodiments when a user of the social networking system interacts with a partner third party system or with a software application provided by the third party system the social networking system may share some or all of the user data associated with the user and or some of the non user data stored in database with the third party system or with the software application with which the user interacts so that the third party system or the software application may utilize the shared user and or non user data to improve e.g. customize its interactions with the user and or to verify or authenticate the user. For example when user A interacts with one of software applications A the social networking system may share some of the user data of user A stored in database with the one of software applications A with which user A interacts.

In particular embodiments when the social networking system shares its user or non user data with a third party system or with a software application provided by the third party system the third party system may choose to store a copy of the shared data locally in the database associated with the third party system i.e. locally caching the shared data . The cached copy of the shared data may be accessible to the software applications provided by the third party system. For example when the social networking system shares some of the data stored in database with any of software applications A a copy of the shared data may be stored in database A when the social networking system shares some of the data stored in database with any of software applications B a copy of the shared data may be stored in database B and when the social networking system shares some of the data stored in database with any of software applications C a copy of the shared data may be stored in database C. In particular embodiments the data stored in databases A B and C are the cached copies of the shared data of the social networking system whose original copies are stored in database .

The data stored in database may be updated from time to time through the social networking system. In particular embodiments although some of the data stored in database may be shared with the third party systems the shared data may only be updated through the social networking system and may not be updated through any of the third party systems. Users A B C may update their respective user data stored in database at any time by for example logging into their accounts with the social networking system and updating their profiles such as to add change or subtract profile information such as birth dates profile pictures preferences and declared interests. The non user data stored in database may be updated by the social networking system as time passes and circumstances change.

In particular embodiments each datum of the social networking system may have a type or a name and a value. The type of the datum may indicate the nature of the datum or what the datum represents. For example a datum may represent the address of a user. In this case the type of the datum may be user address and the value of the datum may be the actual address of each user e.g. 1000 Main Street San Francisco Calif. . Thus although each user may have the same user address datum in his profile the value of the user address datum may differ from user to user. As another example a datum may represent the date of birth of a user. In this case the type of the datum may be user birthday and the value of the datum may be the actual birth date of each user e.g. Jan. 10 1970 . The value of each datum may change at any time. Typically when a datum is updated its value changes. The value may also correspond to a media object such as a profile picture or a uniform resource indicator to the media object.

When a particular datum stored in database has been updated i.e. the datum has a new value either by a user or by the social networking system if the datum has been shared with one or more third party systems and copies of the datum have been cached locally by the third party systems and stored in the databases e.g. databases A B or C associated with the third party systems then the social networking system may need to notify the third party systems that their cached copies of the datum are no longer valid. In particular embodiments the social networking system may employ a push based notification scheme and push a cache invalidation notification to each of the third party systems under the circumstance.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may be partnered with one or more third party systems and may share some of its data with the individual third party systems. In particular embodiments the third party systems may store cached copies of the shared data locally. When the value of a datum has been changed through the social networking system either directly or indirectly if the datum has been shared with one or more third party systems and copies of the datum have been cached locally by the third party systems then the social networking system may notify the third party systems that their cached copies of the datum and more specifically their cached values of the datum are no longer valid.

However a social networking system may store and share many types of user or non user data and a third party system may not be interested in all of the data provided by the social networking system and thus may not choose to cache all of the shared data. In addition different third party systems may choose to receive and cache different types of data provided by the social networking system. For example an online gaming system may be more interested in the users ages and hobbies but may not be overly concerned with the users addresses or marital status. As a result the online gaming system may not wish to be notified when a user s address or marital status has changed but may want to be notified when the user s hobbies profile picture or friends have changed. In contrast a financial service system may be more interested in the users ages and employment status but may not be interested in the user s hobbies. As a result the financial service system may choose to be notified only when a user s employment status has changed.

On the other hand from the user s point of view a user may or may want wish to share his information with third party systems or a user may wish to share his information only with some specific third party systems. In particular embodiments a user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party systems through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user. The privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user or third parties that may have access to the user datum. In particular embodiments the privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users or associated with the social networking e.g. third party systems predefined groups of the user s connections a particular genre of connections all of the user s connections all connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item indexable and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

In particular embodiments a privacy settings engine may be included in a social networking system. The privacy settings engine can receive privacy settings selections from each user. The privacy settings engine can save the privacy setting selections to a profile associated with the user. Once the privacy setting selections are selected by the user the privacy settings engine can generate a privacy summary for the user that explains to the user what each of the privacy settings selections means with respect to what other users or third party systems can access about the user that selected the privacy settings. A privacy setting thus enables a user to hide specific content items from certain connections e.g. other users or third party systems or to target specific content items to a particular audience focusing content delivery to identified individual or groups of connections chosen by the user. A connection not identified by a privacy setting will be blocked from viewing or otherwise accessing the content item. Privacy settings are also described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 154 886 filed on May 27 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

In particular embodiments each third party system may subscribe with the social networking system the specific types of user or non user data it wishes to be notified when those types of data are updated. Different third party systems may subscribe to different types of data for update notification. Thereafter when a datum is updated i.e. having a new value the social networking system may determine which of the third party systems have subscribed to be notified when this particular type of data is updated and push a notification to a third party system only if the third party system has subscribed to be notified for the type of data to which the datum belongs. For example suppose the online gaming system has subscribed with the social networking system for notification for changes to the users friends. If a user has updated his address then the online gaming system is not notified of the update because the online gaming system has not subscribed for notification for users addresses. On the other hand if a user has added a friend then the online gaming system is notified of the update. In the implementations described herein the notifications identify a user and the type or data field that has been changed. In some implementations the notifications only signal a change to the type of data but does not include the changed data itself.

In practice a social networking system may have a great number of users e.g. thousands or millions or hundreds of millions . These users may often update some of their stored user data especially those user data whose values may change frequently e.g. interests hobbies friends etc. . Similarly some of the stored non user data may be updated often as well because circumstances surrounding the social networking system and its users may also change frequently. In addition for each datum that is updated multiple third party systems may have subscribed to be notified. Thus if a notification is pushed to the third party systems each and every time a datum is updated the social networking system may need to push a great number of notifications to the third party systems frequently which may negatively affect the performance of the social networking system and the third party systems. In particular embodiments the social networking system may notify each third party system of multiple data updates with a single push notification in order to decrease the number of notifications pushed to each third party system.

Because the social networking system may have a great number of users and many of its users may interact with the social networking system at the same time it is possible that the social networking system may receive multiple data updates at the same time. To ensure that the users may interact with the social networking system without experiencing unnecessary delays in particular embodiments the social networking system may employ a multi tier architecture an example of which is illustrated in for notifying the third party systems when specific data of the social networking system are updated.

In particular embodiments a multi tier architecture may include three tiers. The first top tier is a web tier. Tier may include a relatively large number of computing devices e.g. servers responsible for interacting with the users of the social networking system. When a user logs into his account with the social networking system the user may be served by any one of the servers of tier . However typically the user is not aware of with which server of tier he interacts each time he logs into his account. To the user he interacts with the social networking system itself. When a user updates one of his user data step of the update notice of the datum is received by the server of tier with which the user interacts at that time. In particular embodiments the server of tier upon receiving a data update from a user may store the updated value of the datum in the database e.g. database of associated with the social networking system and then forward the data update to the second middle tier to be further processed. Alternatively in other embodiments upon receiving a data update from a user the server of tier may just send an asynchronous message regarding the data update to tier . In this case tier may not be responsible for storing the updated value of the datum in the database. This function may be performed at tier or by some other component of the system.

In particular embodiments for each datum that an updated value has been received the specific third party systems that should be notified of the update are determined step of . Again the updated datum may be a user datum or a non user datum and the updated value of the datum may be received from a user through a server of tier or determined by the social networking system. In particular embodiments tier is responsible for determining which third party systems should be notified when the data of the social networking system are updated.

In particular embodiments tier may include one or more computing devices e.g. servers responsible for filtering the data updates forwarded by tier and thus is a filter tier. In particular embodiments the number of servers of tier may be less than the number of servers of tier . In particular embodiments an asynchronous queue may be employed in connection with tier . The data updates may be put in the asynchronous queue of tier and processed by the individual servers of tier . In particular embodiments each time any server of tier receives a data update from a user the data update is put in the asynchronous queue. Similarly when any component of the social networking system determines an update to a datum the update may also be put in the asynchronous queue. The data updates in the asynchronous queue may then be processed by the servers of tier one at a time. Multiple servers of tier may process multiple data updates at the same time.

The social networking system may be partnered with multiple third party systems. However when a datum is updated not all of the partnered third party may need to be notified of the update. In particular embodiments each third party system subscribes with the social networking system for the specific types of data it wishes to be notified when the data are updated. Thus in particular embodiments given a datum whose value has been updated first a server of tier processing the update may determine which ones of the third party systems have subscribed with the social networking system for notification for the type of data to which the datum belongs. For example if the updated datum is a particular user s address only those third party systems that have subscribed to be notified when users addresses are changed may be selected to receive the update notifications.

In particular embodiments if the updated datum is associated with a specific user i.e. a user datum to protect users privacy the subscribing third party systems may be further filtered based on whether the user associated with the updated datum has a pre established relationship with the subscribing third party systems. In particular embodiments only those subscribing third party systems that have pre established relationships with the user associated with the updated datum may be selected to receive the update notifications. There may be various types of relationships a user of the social networking system may establish with a third party system. For example the user may have interacted with the third party system or with any of the software applications provided by the third party system or the user may have identified the third party system in his user profile or the user may have bookmarked or otherwise added to his profile any of the software applications provided by the third party system.

To further illustrate in user A has interacted with some of software applications A and B. Thus user A has established relationships with the two third party systems providing software applications A and B. User C has only interacted with some of software applications C. Thus user C has established a relationship with the one third party system providing software applications C. User B has interacted with some of software applications A B and C. Thus user B has established relationships with the three third party systems providing software applications A B and C.

Another way to protect users privacy is to consider each user s privacy settings when sharing the user s data with third party systems. In particular embodiments when a user has updated one of his user data the server of tier processing the update may further examine the user s privacy settings. If according to the user s privacy settings the user has agreed to share this particular datum with any third party systems then the data update is included in a notification that will be sent to the third party systems at some time in the future. On the other hand if the user has specified not to share this particular datum with any third party systems under all circumstances then the data update is not included in any notification sent to the third party systems. For example one of the user data associated with a user may be the user s email address. A user may or may not grant a third party system access to his email address by specifying the privacy setting for the email address. If a user has updated his email address the server of tier that processes the update may check whether a third party system has access to the user s email address based on the user s privacy settings. This update is only included in a notification to a third party system only if the user has granted the third party system access to his email address based on the user s privacy settings.

To summarize in particular embodiments given a datum whose value has changed if the datum is associated with a specific user e.g. a user datum then only those third party systems that have subscribed for notification for the data type to which the datum belongs and have pre established relationships with the user are selected to be notified of the update to the datum. If the datum is not associated with any specific user e.g. a non user datum then only those third party systems that have subscribed for notification for the data type to which the datum belongs are selected to be notified of the update to the datum. Once a server of tier has determined which third party systems should receive notifications for an update to a datum the server may forward all the information to the third bottom tier .

In particular embodiments to decrease the number of notifications pushed to the third party systems for each third party system a notification is pushed to the third party system only when the number of data updates for which the third party system should be notified has reached a threshold or when the time passed since the last notification pushed to the third party has reached a threshold or when the time that has passed since the previous notification has reached a threshold step .

In particular embodiments tier may include one or more computing devices e.g. servers responsible for pushing notifications to the individual third party systems. In particular embodiments the number of servers of tier may be similar or less than the number of servers of tier . In particular embodiments the information from tier may be temporarily stored with tier until notifications are pushed to the third party systems.

In particular embodiments for each datum that has been updated a server in tier may determine which specific third party systems need to be notified of the update. As the system operates for each third party system the data updates for which the third party should be notified accumulate and the number of data updates for which the third party system should be notified increases. Note that during a given time period different third party systems may accumulate different numbers of data updates for which the third party systems should be notified.

In particular embodiments two threshold values may be used to determine when a notification should be pushed to each third party system. First for each third party system if the number of data updates for which the third party system should be notified has reached a threshold value e.g. 1000 data updates then a notification is pushed to the third party system. Second for each third party system if the amount of time that has passed since the previous notification pushed to the third party system has reached a threshold value e.g. 5 seconds then a notification is pushed to the third party system. In particular embodiments the two threshold values may be combined so that for each third party system when either threshold has been reached a notification is pushed to the third party system.

Sometimes it is possible that a third party system may have subscribed to be notified when certain types of data are updated. When updates occur to these types of data the third party system may be selected for receiving the corresponding notifications. However before the notification is actually pushed to the third party system the third party system may no longer wish to be notified about the data updates and thus may unsubscribe to be notified. In this case the third party system may be deselected for receiving further notifications and no notification is actually pushed to the third party system.

In particular embodiments a notification pushed to each third party system includes all the data updates accumulated for the third party system between the previous notification and this notification. In particular embodiments a notification only indicates to each third party system which specific data have been updated but does not actually provide the updated values of the data. In particular embodiments a notification may include a timestamp and sufficient information to identify the values of what data have changed. For example for each user datum that has been updated the notification may include the following fields uid the identifier of the user associated with the user datum object indicating the type of data which is user data in this case fields indicating the actual user datum that has been changed and time indicating the time of change . A third party system upon receiving a notification may determine which of its cached data are no longer valid. The third party system may choose to obtain the updated values of the data from the social networking system at a later time such as when the user using a client device establishes a connection to the third party system in order to access a third party application. Alternatively in other embodiments a notification may include the updated values of the data so that upon receiving the notification a third party system may have access to the current values of the data as well.

Suppose that a software application provided by a third party system has determined at some point in time that it needs a datum shared by the social networking system. If the datum including its value has been cached locally with the third party system e.g. a copy of the datum has been stored in a database associated with the third party system then the software application may access the value of the datum from the locally cached copy of the datum. However suppose that at some prior time the social networking system has pushed a notification to the third party system indicating that the value of this particular datum has been changed. In this case the locally cached copy of the datum at the third party system is no longer valid. The software application needs to retrieve the updated value of the datum from the social networking system. Co pending and commonly owned U.S. application Ser. No. 12 193 705 filed on Aug. 18 2008 Ser. No. 12 324 761 filed on Nov. 26 2008 Ser. No. 12 508 521 filed on Jul. 23 2009 Ser. No. 12 508 523 filed on Jul. 23 2009 Ser. No. 12 508 526 filed on Jul. 23 2008 all of which are incorporated by reference herein disclose how third party systems may access user data stored on social networking system and how a user s login status may be determined. For example in one implementation the third party system may transmit to a client device of the user a HTML document that includes an embedded reference e.g. URL for a user data item maintained by the social networking system. The client device processing the HTML document transmits an HTTP request to the social networking system typically with a browser cookie appended to the request. The social networking system may access the cookie to determine the user s login state.

In particular embodiments each user of the social networking system may specify preferences on how his user data should be treated with respect to sharing such data with third party systems. For example the user may specify his preferences through the privacy settings of his user profile. Given a specific user datum a user may choose never to share it with any third party systems always freely share it with all third party systems only share it with certain specified trusted third party systems only share it with a third party system while the user has a current session with the third party system e.g. while the user is interacting with a software application provided by the third party system only share it with the subscribing third party systems while the user is logged into his account with the social networking system and so on. In other implementations some or a subset of these privacy settings may be system wide settings that are not subject to user level configuration. A privacy setting thus enables a user to hide specific content items from certain entities e.g. social connections or third party systems or to target specific content items to a particular audience focusing content delivery to identified individual or groups of social connections or third party systems chosen by the user. A social connection or third party system not identified by a privacy setting will be blocked from viewing or otherwise accessing the content item. Privacy settings are also described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 154 886 filed on May 27 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In particular embodiments upon receiving a request from a third party system for the current i.e. updated value of a user datum associated with a specific user step the social networking system may examine the privacy setting for the requested datum that has been specified by the user. The social networking system may respond to the request differently depending on the actual privacy setting for the requested datum.

If the user has indicated that this particular datum may be shared with all third party systems at any time the social networking system may transmit the updated value of the datum to the third party system that has sent the request. If the user has indicated that this particular datum should never be shared with any third party systems the social networking system may transmit a response to the third party system indicating that the value of the datum is not available or cannot be transmitted to any third party system.

If the user has indicated or a system setting indicates that this particular datum should only be shared with a third party system while the user currently has a session with the third party system at the time of the request then the social networking system may determine whether at the time the request is made the user currently has a user session with the third party system step . For example when making the request the third party system may also send a session key for the session it has with the user. Note that a third party system may have a session with a user through one of its software applications. The social networking system may validate the session the third party system has with the user using the session key. If the session is valid the social networking system may transmit the updated value of the datum to the third party system step . On the other hand if the session key cannot be validated or if the third party system has not provided any session key with its request the social networking system may transmit a response to the third party system indicating that there is an error or that the session cannot be validated.

If the user has indicated that this particular datum should only be shared with a third party system while the user is currently logged into his account with the social networking system then the social networking system may determine whether at the time the request is made the user is currently logged into his account with the social networking system step . If the user is currently logged into his account then the social networking system may transmit the updated value of the datum to the third party system step . On the other hand if the user is not currently logged into his account in particular embodiments the social networking system may send a request to the user asking the user to log into his account step . If the user in response to the request successfully logs into his account with the social networking system then the social networking system may transmit the updated value of the datum to the third party system step . Otherwise the social networking system may transmit a response to the third party system that the value of the datum cannot be provided at this time.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment suitable for providing software validation as a service. Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

