---

title: Impregnation of macrocycle organics to activated carbon
abstract: A filtration material is provided for incorporation in a gas filter that includes an Activated Carbon, Impregnated with Copper, Silver, Zinc, Molybdenum, and Triethlyenediamine (ASZM-TEDA) medium and a macrocyclic organic material. The material is impregnated into the medium in proportions of between 1% and 5% of the medium. The material consists of molecules, each with a binding pocket for binding a metal ion. Also, a method is provided for impregnating porphyrin into a medium of ASZM-TEDA for incorporation in a gas filter. The method includes mixing porphyrin and ASZM-TEDA in a first ratio-by-weight of 1:4 of porphyrin to ASZM-TEDA as a mixture in a container; adding dichloromethane to the mixture in a second ratio-by-weight of 1:133 of porphyrin to dichloromethane as a solution in the container; stirring and refluxing the solution under nitrogen, filtering said mixture from the solution as a carbon residue; and drying the residue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09493356&OS=09493356&RS=09493356
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09493356
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150717
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to mitigation of metal salt migration in carbon filters. In particular the invention relates to using porphyrin impregnation to trap metal ions to inhibit their movement and chemical interaction within the filter.

Impregnated carbon is incorporated into filters designed for gas masks to protect respiratory systems from contamination. Activated Carbon Impregnated with Copper Silver Zinc Molybdenum and Triethlyenediamine ASZM TEDA constitutes a filtration material used in conjunction with standards MIL DTL 32101A and EA C 1704 Army .

The compound material ASZM TEDA constitutes an adsorbent conventionally used in the military s chemical and biological protection systems to capture and destroy chemical threats. ASZM TEDA consists of an activated carbon with metal salts adsorbed into the pores to provide the reactivity towards chemical weapon agents. The carbon C adsorbs the threat agents and the metal salts neutralizes these threats by chemical reaction. After three or four years of service life the carbon becomes less effective at stopping particular chemical threats especially those with higher volatility. Such threats include blood agents including hydrogen cyanide HCN and cyanogen chloride CNCl .

Hydrogen cyanide has NATO weapon designation AC being an organic compound called prussic acid. AC is a colorless extremely poisonous liquid that boils at slightly above room temperature at 25.6 C. 78.1 F. and is produced on an industrial scale as a highly valuable precursor to many chemical compounds ranging from polymers to pharmaceuticals.

Cynogen chloride has NATO weapon designation CK and is a corrosive colorless gas at low temperatures readily condensable into a clear colorless liquid with an irritating pungent odor. CK dissolves slowly in water reacting therewith to form hydrogen chloride HCl gas. CK has a molecular weight of 61.47 which translates to a vapor density of 2.12 thereby sinking in air to collect in low spots and confined areas. CK boils at 13.8 C. 56.84 F. freezes at 6.0 C. 21.2 F. and evaporates rapidly in contact with exposed water. CK has the additional hazard of being able to polymerize usually explosively.

Conventional ASZM TEDA active carbon filters yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a filtration material is provided for incorporation in a gas filter that includes an Activated Carbon Impregnated with Copper Silver Zinc Molybdenum and Triethlyenediamine ASZM TEDA medium and a macrocyclic organic material. The material is impregnated into the medium in proportions of between 1 and 5 of the medium. The material consists of molecules each with a binding pocket for binding a metal ion.

Other various embodiments provide a method for impregnating porphyrin into a medium of ASZM TEDA for incorporation in a gas filter. The method includes mixing porphyrin and ASZM TEDA in a first ratio by weight of 1 4 of porphyrin to ASZM TEDA as a mixture in a container adding dichloromethane to the mixture in a second ratio by weight of 1 133 of porphyrin to dichloromethane as a solution in the container stirring and refluxing the solution under nitrogen filtering said mixture from the solution as a carbon residue and drying the residue.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The disclosure generally employs metric units with the following abbreviations length in centimeters cm mass in grams g volume in milliliters ml and temperature in degrees Celcius C. . Supplemental measures can be expressed derived from these such as density in grams per cubic centimeters g cm and the like.

Porphyrins are a group of heterocyclic macrocycle organic compounds composed of four modified pyrrole subunits interconnected at their carbon atoms via methine bridges. Porphyrins are the conjugate acids of ligands that bind metals to form complexes. The metal ion usually has a charge of 2 or 3 .

Utilizing impregnation to restrict metal migration in activated carbon materials extend their reactive life. Various exemplary embodiments modify ASZM TEDA through impregnation of organic molecules such as porphyrins into porous materials to stop the migration of metal salts in the porous structure. This disclosure also describes a novel modified carbon formulation impregnated with porphyrins produced from the aforementioned process that displays these migration inhibition properties. The preferred amount of loading for the exemplary formulation is between 1 and 5 by weight but these values are exemplary and not limiting. This modified formulation performs better than conventional configurations because exemplary embodiments mitigate the migration of the metal salts seen with conventional formulations.

Degradation of the carbon filter s activity is presumably due to migration of the reactive metal salts from changes in humidity. As the salts are dissolved in and redeposited from condensed water on the filter they form aggregates with reduced chemical reactivity limiting the filter s ability to capture and degrade certain chemical agents. Inhibiting this migration of metal salts towards the surface of the carbon extends the reactive life of the materials.

Exemplary embodiments provide modified ASZM TEDA that is impregnated with porphyrins which are macrocyclic organic compounds each with a binding pocket in the center of the molecule. This binding pocket complexes with metal ions. Exemplary embodiments add porphyrin to bind with the metal salts of copper Cu and zinc Zn in the pocket. Because porphyrin is not water soluble these salts cannot move through the carbon because they would be bound by the porphyrin thereby extending the life of the carbon filters.

Other organic molecules could be used as migration inhibitors including phthalocyanines crown ethers naphthalene derivatives perylene derivatives phenanthrolines and any other highly conjugated large organic molecules that would adsorb strongly to the carbon and have low water solubility. Exemplary embodiments also include impregnating porous materials with porphyrins and phthalocyanines that are already bound to metal ions such as copper and zinc before being disposed into the carbon materials to form additional formulations.

The material phthalocyanine is an intensely blue green coloured aromatic macrocyclic compound that is widely used in dyeing. Phthalocyanines form coordination complexes with most elements of the periodic table. Phthalocyanine forms upon heating derivatives of phthalic acid that contain nitrogen functional groups. Pthalic acid is an aromatic dicarboxylic acid with formula CH COH .

The utility of materials such as porphyrin and phthalocyanine has been to trap atoms of select metal elements to inhibit salts from accumulating and migrating in the filter. This effect has been demonstrated through water migration testing in which the exemplary modified and conventional unmodified ASZM TEDA media were exposed to water over seven days and then analyzed using scanning electron microscopy and electron dispersive X ray measurements. These data indicate that a substantial amount of copper and zinc migrates to the surface of conventional ASZM TEDA with only minute copper or zinc visible on the surface of the porphyrin modified ASZM TEDA. For alternate exemplary embodiments the modified ASZM TEDA can be utilized in conventional processes while depositing the substrate into layered beds of carbon inside large collective protection filters or small individual filters.

The primary proposed utility for the exemplary modified carbon filter concept involves collective protection systems used by the Defense Department DoD . These systems protect buildings and ships from chemical attacks and utilize ASZM TEDA. Extending the life of ASZM TEDA could provide a significant cost savings for the DoD. The commercial potential would involve all the present applications of reactive carbons such as chemical and biological protection systems as well as water purification. The impregnated carbons could lengthen reactive lives of such filtration materials. The material is expected to have the same chemical protection capabilities as ASZM TEDA but without exhibiting the migration or movement of metal ions observed with conventional ASZM TEDA. Replacing conventionally fielded filters with the exemplary formulation enables the extension of the service life of the filters from four years to at least five years representing a large cost savings as a typical collective protection filter set costs around 1300 and a typical system contains at least 60 to 120 filters.

Only a slight modification is involved to provide these life extension advantages for carbon filters while enabling the reactive properties of the ASZM TEDA to remain unchanged. This obviates validation testing required to demonstrate the effectiveness of the filtration material. The simplicity of the impregnation process is also advantageous because it requires minimal modifications to the manufacturing procedures of ASZM TEDA. The advantages from the exemplary embodiments include improved protection against metal migration and longer filter life requiring a very small amount of impregnant to achieve very good performance. Less than 5 of the porphyrin by weight pergram carbon is expected to achieve the desired results based on non optimized results. These advantages can be achieved without developing completely novel reactive adsorbents which would require extensive research.

As an example for impregnation one weighs 0.125 g of porphyrin and 0.5 g of ASZM TEDA both deposited into a three neck round bottom flask with a stir bar and water condenser attached. A volume of 100 ml of dichloromethane CHCl is added to the flask and the reaction is stirred and refluxed for 12 to 24 hours under nitrogen N . Refluxing involves boiling the solution at the solvent s boiling point 39.6 C. for dichloromethane while continuously recondensing the solvent vapor into liquid and draining the liquid back to the boiling solution. The carbon mixture is then filtered using a fritted funnel and the collected carbon is dried in an oven at 125 C. overnight or approximately 12 hours . After the impregnation procedure most of the porphyrin remains in solution with only 1 5 by weight based on carbon being incorporated into the carbon.

These measures are exemplary and artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that different proportions can be employed without departing from the scope of the claims. By weight a ratio of 1 4 porphyrin and ASZM TEDA are mixed together. Because the added dichloromethane has a density of 1.33 g cm the ratio by weight of the flask solution is 1 4 133 between porphyrin ASZM TEDA and dichloromethane.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

