---

title: System and method for evaluating text to support multiple insurance applications
abstract: A system for evaluating text data to support multiple insurance applications is disclosed. In some embodiments, text input data is received from multiple sources. The text input data may then be aggregated and mapped to create composite text input data. A semantic event in the composite text input data may be automatically detected, such as by being triggered by a semantic rule and associated semantic tag. A text mining result database may be updated by adding an entry to the database identifying the detected semantic event and the triggering semantic rule. An indication associated with the text mining result database may then be transmitted to a plurality of insurance applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483554&OS=09483554&RS=09483554
owner: Hartford Fire Insurance Company
number: 09483554
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150331
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 925 996 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR EVALUATING TEXT TO SUPPORT MULTIPLE INSURANCE APPLICATIONS and filed Jun. 25 2013. The entire content of that application is incorporated herein by reference.

An entity such as an insurance company may want to analyze or mine large amounts of data such as text data. For example an insurance company might want to analyze tens of thousands of insurance claim text files to look for patterns e.g. a particular type of injury has occurred more frequently for employees who work in a particular industry . Note that an entity might analyze this data in correction with different types of applications and moreover different applications may need to analyze the data differently. For example the term IV might referent to an Insured Vehicle when it appears in an automobile accident report and to Intra Venous when it appears in a medical file. It can be difficult to identify patterns across such large amounts of data and different types of applications. In addition manually managing the different needs and requirements e.g. different business logic rules associated with different applications can be a time consuming and error prone process. As a result it would be desirable to provide systems and methods for efficiently and accurately mining text data.

According to some embodiments systems methods apparatus computer program code and means for efficiently and accurately mining text data. In some embodiments text input data is received from multiple sources. The received text input data may then be aggregated and mapped to create composite text input data. A semantic event in the composite text input data may be automatically detected such as by being triggered by a semantic rule and associated semantic tag. A text mining result database may be updated by adding an entry to the database identifying the detected semantic event and the triggering semantic rule. An indication associated with the text mining result database may then be transmitted to a plurality of insurance applications.

Some embodiments provide means for receiving at a text mining platform text input data from multiple sources means for aggregating and mapping the text input data to create composite text input data means for automatically detecting by a computer processor of the text mining platform a semantic event in the composite text input data triggered by a semantic rule and associated semantic tag means for updating by the computer processor a text mining result database by adding an entry to the database identifying the detected semantic event and the triggering semantic rule and means for transmitting by the computer processor an indication associated with the text mining result database to a plurality of insurance applications.

A technical effect of some embodiments of the invention is an improved and computerized way of mining text providing improved results. With these and other advantages and features that will become hereinafter apparent a more complete understanding of the nature of the invention can be obtained by referring to the following detailed description and to the drawings appended hereto.

An enterprise may want to analyze or mine large amounts of data such as text data received from various sources. By way of example an insurance company might want to analyze tens of thousands of insurance claim text files to look for patterns e.g. to find patterns of factors that may help indicate a likely recovery period length will be associated with a particular type of injury . Note that an entity might analyze this data in correction with different types of applications and that different applications may need to analyze the data differently. It may therefore be desirable to provide systems and methods to mine text data in an automated efficient and accurate manner. is block diagram of a system according to some embodiments of the present invention. In particular the system includes a text mining platform that receives information from a semantic rules database a claim system one or more text input data sources e.g. internal to an insurance enterprise and or external third party text data e.g. reports issued by the National Highway Safety Board . The text mining platform might be for example associated with a Personal Computers PC laptop computer an enterprise server a server farm and or a database or similar storage devices. The text mining platform may according to some embodiments be associated with a business organization or an insurance provider.

As used herein devices including those associated with the text mining platform and any other device described herein may exchange information via any communication network which may be one or more of a telephone network a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a proprietary network a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Wireless Application Protocol WAP network a Bluetooth network a wireless LAN network and or an Internet Protocol IP network such as the Internet an intranet or an extranet. Note that any devices described herein may communicate via one or more such communication networks.

According to some embodiments an automated text mining platform may access semantic rules in the semantic rules database to mine the information from the claim system and or the other text input data sources . As used herein the term automated may refer to for example actions that can be performed with little or no human intervention.

The text mining platform may store information into and or retrieve information from the semantic rules database and or a text mining result database that is output to various external insurance applications e.g. software applications or devices associated with subrogation fraud detection and or recovery factor analysis . The semantic rules database may be a locally stored relational database or reside remote from the text mining platform . The term relational may refer to for example a collection of data items organized as a set of formally described tables from which data can be accessed. Moreover a Relational Database Management System RDBMS may be used in connection with any of the database tables described herein. According to some embodiments a graphical administrator interface may provide an ability to access and or modify the semantic rules database via the text mining platform . The administrator interface might for example let an administrator define terms dictionaries mapping rules etc. associated with text mining. The data sources may be thought of as publishers of information to be consumed by the text mining platform and the insurance applications may be considered subscribers to information created by the text mining platform . Moreover note that the text mining platform may operate asynchronously and or independently of any insurance application .

Although a single text mining platform is shown in any number of such devices may be included. Moreover various devices described herein might be combined according to embodiments of the present invention. For example in some embodiments the text mining platform and semantic rules database might be co located and or may comprise a single apparatus.

In this way the system may mine text in an efficient and accurate manner. For example illustrates a method that might be performed by some or all of the elements of the system described with respect to according to some embodiments of the present invention. The flow charts described herein do not imply a fixed order to the steps and embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in any order that is practicable. Note that any of the methods described herein may be performed by hardware software or any combination of these approaches. For example a computer readable storage medium may store thereon instructions that when executed by a machine result in performance according to any of the embodiments described herein.

At text input data is received at a text mining platform from multiple sources. For example thousands of insurance claim files may be received on a periodic basis or in substantially real time. Although insurance claim files are described in connection with some embodiments herein note that other types of information may also be received and or analyzed. For example the text input data might be associated an insurance claim note a medical report a police report social network data a loss description an injury description a Final Notice Of Loss FNOL statement a telephone call transcript e.g. create via a voice recognition application Optical Character Recognition OCR data third party data and or a governmental agency e.g. weather reports .

At the received text input data is aggregated and mapped to create composite input text data. For example the received text input data might be rearranged converted into a standard format fields may be mapped in accordance with a source identifier abbreviations words and or phrases may be modified as appropriate to a common usage etc.

At a semantic event may be automatically detected in the composite text input data triggered by a semantic rule and associated semantic tag. According to some embodiments the semantic event may be associated with the triggering detection of a word a phrase a shorthand term a prescription drug and or an insurance carrier name. The triggering semantic rule might be associated with for example a noun a verb a definition a semantic tree a named entity recognition rule a root a noun phrase a prepositional phrase and or a verb phrase. According to some embodiments the triggering semantic rule was previously defined by an administrator using a graphical user interface. In some cases one or more pre determined conditions may be applied to flag the detected semantic event e.g. to reduce the number of semantic events to be eventually reported to insurance applications . For example a pre determined condition may require that a word or phrase must be detected a pre determined number of times or within a pre determined proximity of another word or phrase.

A text mining result database may be updated at by adding an entry to the database identifying the detected semantic event and the triggering semantic rule note that if applicable only flagged events may result in a new entry be created in the database . The added entry might for example include a file note identifier an insert date a text source a rule identifier and or a line of business.

At an indication associated with the text mining result database may be transmitted to a plurality of insurance applications. The insurance applications might be associated with for example a workers compensation claim a personal insurance policy a business insurance policy an automobile insurance policy a home insurance policy a sentiment analysis insurance event detection a cluster analysis a predictive model a subrogation analysis fraud detection a recovery factor analysis large loss and volatile claim detection a premium evasion analysis an insurance policy comparison an underwriting decision and or indicator incidence rate trending application. Note that the transmitted indication might be used to trigger an insurance application e.g. by triggering a fraud detection analysis and or update an insurance application e.g. by updating a variable or weighing factor of a predictive model .

The embodiments described herein may be implemented using any number of different hardware configurations. For example illustrates a text mining apparatus that may be for example associated with the text mining platform of . The text mining apparatus comprises a processor such as one or more commercially available Central Processing Units CPUs in the form of one chip microprocessors coupled to a communication device configured to communicate via a communication network not shown in . The communication device may be used to communicate for example with one or more text sources and or insurance applications. The text mining apparatus further includes an input device e.g. a mouse and or keyboard to define semantic rules and an output device e.g. a computer monitor to indicate reports and text mining results .

The processor also communicates with a storage device . The storage device may comprise any appropriate information storage device including combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage devices mobile telephones and or semiconductor memory devices. The storage device stores a program and or a communications engine e.g. associated with a communications engine plug in for controlling the processor . The processor performs instructions of the programs and thereby operates in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. For example the processor may receive text input data and a semantic event in the text input data may be automatically detected such as by being triggered by a semantic rule and associated semantic tag. A text mining result database may then be updated by the processor e.g. by adding an entry to the database identifying the detected semantic event and the triggering semantic rule . An indication associated with the text mining result database may then be transmitted by the processor to a plurality of insurance applications.

The programs may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The programs may furthermore include other program elements such as an operating system a database management system and or device drivers used by the processor to interface with peripheral devices.

As used herein information may be received by or transmitted to for example i the text mining apparatus from another device or ii a software application or module within the text mining apparatus from another software application module or any other source.

In some embodiments such as shown in the storage device further stores text input data a semantic rules database the text mining results database . Examples of databases that may be used in connection with the text mining apparatus will now be described in detail with respect to . Note that the database described herein is only one example and additional and or different information may be stored therein. Moreover various databases might be split or combined in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.

Referring to a table is shown that represents the semantic rules database that may be stored at the text mining apparatus according to some embodiments. The table may include for example entries identifying rules and algorithms that may facilitate text mining. The table may also define fields for each of the entries. The fields may according to some embodiments specify a semantic rule identifier a rule description and one or more semantic tags for each rule. The semantic rules database may be created and updated for example based on information received from an operator or administrator.

The semantic rule identifier may be for example a unique alphanumeric code identifying logic that may be applied during text mining. The rule description may describe the rule and the one or more semantic tags may define when the rule is triggered. For example the presence of the word DOGS in a claim file might trigger the semantic rule associated with identifier SR 10002 to indicate that an ANIMAL BITE might be associated with that claim file. According to some embodiments the semantic rules database may store multiple versions of a semantic rule and different rule versions may be associated with different text mining results databases versions .

Referring to a table is shown that represents the text mining results database that may be stored at the text mining apparatus according to some embodiments. The table may include for example entries identifying results of a text mining operation. The table may also define fields for each of the entries. The fields may according to some embodiments specify a text mining result identifier a loss event a date a rule identifier and a claim identifier . The text mining results database may be created and updated for example based on an analysis of text input data received from multiple sources. Note that text mining operations and analysis might be performed on historical text input data in addition to or instead of current text input data.

The text mining result identifier may be for example a unique alphanumeric code identifying a result of text analysis. The loss event might categorize a cause associated with the event and the date might indicate when the loss occurred. The rule identifier might indicate which rule resulted in the entry being created and may be based on or associated with the semantic rule identifier stored in the semantic rule database . The claim identifier might indicate a claim file associated with the event and or an associated insurance policy. Note that other identifiers may be stored in the text mining results database in addition to or instead of the claim identifier . Examples of such other identifiers include a party identifier a policy identifier an entity identifier a tax identifier a physician identifier etc.

The pulled data may then be processed in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein e.g. in connection with a master domain . In particular abbreviations e.g. associated with industry and or enterprise specific shorthand and jargon and or typographical errors may be mapped to a dictionary phrases may be mapped to a dictionary semantic tags may be applied and or named entity recognition rules may be matched . As a result of such processing rule matches may be output at the note sentence and or phrase level . For example entries or records may be inserted into a text mining results database e.g. including fields such as a file note identifier date of insertion a text source etc. . Note that a single input file or record might result in multiple results being inserted into the database.

According to some embodiments such a data flow may allow for the use of common domain dictionaries e.g. including shorthand terms common prescriptions and or insurance carrier names . Moreover a composite named entity recognition rules library may provide for daily processing of text fields and rule changes may be tracked over time for analysis. In addition performance monitoring might be performed in connection with indicator incidence rate trending and new rules can be introduced with minimal code changes. According to some embodiments a batch process may create a history for new and or changed rules associated with the data flow .

According to some embodiments the text mining associated with the data flow is a big data activity that may use machine learning to sift through large amounts of unstructured data to find meaningful patterns to support business decisions. As used herein the phrase big data may refer to massive amounts of data that are collect over time that may be difficult to analyze and handle using common database management tools. This type of big data may include business transactions email messages activity logs and or machine generated data. In addition data from sensors unstructured text posted on the Internet such as blogs and social media may be included in embodiments described herein.

According to some embodiments the text mining performed herein may be associated with hypothesis testing. For example one or more theories may be provided e.g. the presence of a landlord increases chances of subrogation a pre existing injury is a red flag for fraud and or diabetes is a comorbidity that increases the duration of lost time claims . Knowledge engineering may then translate common notation terms correct typographical errors and create smart tags for industry and scenario specific business context analysis. According to some embodiments Natural Language Processing NLP may parse text streams into phrases and Named Entity Recognition NER rules may identify important concepts that are used to augment other structured data elements as predictor variables in models.

The NER rules may be stored in an NER rule library and may include individual indicators. For example indicators associated with a subrogation analysis might include the following words or phrases animal bite attorney carrier contractor landlord lawsuit low subrogation motor vehicle accident no subrogation off premises responsible party self inflicted third party and or zero paid. As other examples indicators associated with a fraud detection analysis might include the following words or phrases disputed injury no evidence pre existing condition prior history recent hire terminated unhappy un witnessed injury claimant lacks documentation claimant not employee claimant paid in cash no Social Security number employer paid un reported bill employer won t confirm information hazardous material and or excluded business. As still other examples indicators associated with a recovery factor analysis might include alcohol complications diabetes high blood pressure narcotics pre existing condition obesity osteoarthritis smoking substance abuse and or elderly care.

In some embodiments the text mining described herein may be associated with insight discovery wherein unsupervised data mining techniques may be used to discover common patterns in data. For example highly recurrent themes may be classified and other concepts may then be highlighted based on a sense of adjacency to these recurrent themes. In some cases cluster analysis and drilldown tools may be used to explore the business context of such themes. For example sentiment analysis may be used to determine how an entity is currently perceived and or the detection of a real world event may be triggered e.g. it might be noted that a particular automobile model is frequently experiencing a particular unintended problem .

According to some embodiments an automated text mining platform may access semantic rules in the semantic rules database to mine the received text. The text mining platform may then transmit results to external systems such as an email alert server a workflow application and or reporting and calendar functions e.g. executing on a server . According to some embodiments a graphical administrator interface may provide an ability to access and or modify the semantic rules database via the text mining platform . The administrator interface might for example let an administrator define terms dictionaries mapping rules etc. associated with text mining.

The text mining platform may include a number of input nodes and or output nodes such as notes associated with protocols and or Application Programming Interface API connections. Information provided via the output nodes may for example be used to augment structured data as independent variables in predictive models e.g. a subrogation might look for indications of third party liability a fraud detection process might to look for a set of red flags a large Loss volatile claims might look for comorbidity biological psychological and or social conditions and a premium evasion process might look for understatement of workforce and misclassified business flags .

The information provided via the output nodes may also for example as an event detector to drive alerts to a business to identify insurance claims that merit re scoring to alert a business to a change in claim state for escalation or re assignment and or to transmit alarms indicating the presence of a foreign Manufacturer on a general liability claim. According to some embodiments mined indicators from claims may be used to sample and or compare insurance policies e.g. to compare policies based on the incidence rate of comorbidities .

The administrator interface may display various graphical user interfaces to an administrator. For example illustrates a semantic tagging graphical user interface in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. The semantic tagging interface may let the administrator select one or more words in a library as a semantic tag and or provide a definition e.g. a hierarchy of data elements may device the word Hartford as an insurance carrier and company as illustrated in .

The device may be used to graphically tie together various Noun Phrases NP in association with sentence subjects clauses objects etc. For example the results illustrated in display the triggered words in bold and underlined text e.g. dogs attacked injured etc. . In this way the interfaces described herein may be used to map typographical errors in the text input data to a word dictionary map phrases in the text input data to a phrase dictionary apply semantic tags to the mapped phrases match named entity recognition rules based on the applied semantic tags and or output rule matches at a level representing at a note level a sentence level and or a phrase level.

The following illustrates various additional embodiments of the invention. These do not constitute a definition of all possible embodiments and those skilled in the art will understand that the present invention is applicable to many other embodiments. Further although the following embodiments are briefly described for clarity those skilled in the art will understand how to make any changes if necessary to the above described apparatus and methods to accommodate these and other embodiments and applications.

Although specific hardware and data configurations have been described herein note that any number of other configurations may be provided in accordance with embodiments of the present invention e.g. some of the information associated with the databases described herein may be combined or stored in external systems .

Applicants have discovered that embodiments described herein may be particularly useful in connection with insurance policies and associated claims. Note however that other types of business and insurance data may also benefit from the invention. For example embodiments of the present invention may be used in connection with automobile insurance policies etc.

Moreover although some embodiments have been described with respect to particular text mining approaches note that any of the embodiments might instead be associated with other text processing techniques. For example natural language processing may operate to mine certain characteristic information from various social networks to determine whether a party is engaging in certain risky behavior or providing high risk products. It is also contemplated that embodiments may process recommendations in one or more languages such English French Arabic Spanish Chinese German Japanese and the like. In an exemplary embodiment a system can be employed for sophisticated text analyses wherein text can be recognized irrespective of the text language. The relationships between the various words phrases can be clarified by using a rules engine for classifying words phrases as a predictor of certain underwriting risk.

According to some embodiments text data may be used in conjunction with one or more predictive models to take into account a large number of underwriting and or other parameters. The predictive model s in various implementation may include one or more of neural networks Bayesian networks such as Hidden Markov models expert systems decision trees collections of decision trees support vector machines or other systems known in the art for addressing problems with large numbers of variables. Preferably the predictive model s are trained on prior text data and outcomes known to the insurance company. The specific text data and outcomes analyzed may vary depending on the desired functionality of the particular predictive model. The particular text data parameters selected for analysis in the training process may be determined by using regression analysis and or other statistical techniques known in the art for identifying relevant variables and associated weighting factors in multivariable systems. The parameters can be selected from any of the structured data parameters stored in the present system whether the parameters were input into the system originally in a structured format or whether they were extracted from previously unstructured text such as from big data.

In the present invention the selection of weighting factors either on a keyword level or a text source level may improve the predictive power of the text mining. For example more reliable text sources may be associated with a higher weighting factor while newer or less reliable sources might be associated with a relatively lower weighting factor.

The present invention has been described in terms of several embodiments solely for the purpose of illustration. Persons skilled in the art will recognize from this description that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

