---

title: Systems, apparatus and methods for facilitating display and management of information for communication devices
abstract: Information management and display is enabled. A method can include displaying, via a user interface of a communication device, a dynamically updatable wallpaper comprising a personalized theme personalized to a user of the communication device. The method can also include updating the dynamically updatable wallpaper to display one or more animated icons. Displaying the animated icons can be based, at least, on detected activity of respective contacts associated with the one or more animated icons. An apparatus can comprise a user interface component configured to display images indicative of contacts, wherein the plurality of contacts are predefined by a user of the apparatus. The apparatus can also include a messaging component configured to: integrate different types of text messages for one of the contacts; and provide concurrent display of the text messages and social media information for one of the contacts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503403&OS=09503403&RS=09503403
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09503403
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150709
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 500 924 filed Sep. 29 2014 and entitled SYSTEMS APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR FACILITATING DISPLAY AND MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION FOR COMMUNICATION DEVICES which is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 966 204 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 874 665 filed Dec. 13 2010 and entitled SYSTEMS APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR FACILITATING DISPLAY AND MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION FOR COMMUNICATION DEVICES. The entireties of these applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

With advancements in technology communication devices are becoming ubiquitous throughout society due to the convenience of use resultant from their lightweight nature and extensive information processing capabilities. Users are demanding that a plethora of different types of information be provided to the devices and are pushing the envelope on the applications and information that are required to be provided via the devices to maintain contact with friends and colleagues. For example the ability to form online social networks SNs with others has increased the possibilities for casual business and family networking. The popularity of such SNs and the social networking sites SNSs that facilitate such SNs has caused users of such sites and the social media SM information provided to and retrievable from such sites to be immense. To fully reap the benefits of the SNs many users also access contacts status updates wall postings and or photo albums of friends via their communication devices. Ever present challenges for users of communication devices are efficiently viewing and retrieving select SM information and other up to date information and or managing the relationships with other users of SNSs with which the owner of the communication device is affiliated. Further because of the foregoing users of communication devices are often confronted with a massive amount of information. Such a sizeable amount of information can make retrieval of desired information somewhat complex time consuming and inefficient.

Accordingly systems apparatus and methods for facilitating display and management of information for communication devices are desirable.

Certain illustrative embodiments are described herein in the following description and the annexed drawings. These embodiments are merely exemplary non limiting and non exhaustive. As such all modifications alterations and variations within the spirit of the embodiments is envisaged and intended to be covered herein.

Further in the following description for purposes of mere explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to facilitate a more thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein including the claimed subject matter. However as is known to those of ordinary skill in the art the embodiments can be practiced in many instances without inclusion of the specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to hardware and or software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or application programming interface API components and can be as simple as a command line or as complex as an Integrated Development Environment IDE .

Furthermore the embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer apparatus or article of manufacture to implement the functionality disclosed herein. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program or computer program product accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier computer readable media or computer readable storage media. As known to those of ordinary skill in the art modifications can be made to the above embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure.

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a communication network for systems described herein can include any suitable mobile and or wireline based circuit switched communication network including a global systems for mobile communication GSM network a time division multiple access TDMA network a code division multiple access CDMA network such as IS 95 and subsequent iterations of CDMA technology an integrated digital enhanced network iDEN network and a public switched telephone network PSTN . Further examples of a communication network can include any suitable data packet switched or combination data packet circuit switched communication network wired or wireless internet protocol IP network such as a voice over internet protocol VoIP network an IP data network a universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS network a general packet radio service GPRS network or other communication networks that provide streaming data communication over IP and or integrated voice and data communication over combination data packet circuit switched technologies.

Similarly one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a communication device for systems disclosed herein can include a mobile device mobile phone a PSTN phone a cellular communication device a cellular phone a satellite communication device a satellite phone a VoIP phone a wireless fidelity WiFi phone a dual mode cellular WiFi phone a combination cellular VoIP WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX phone or any suitable combination thereof. Specific examples of a mobile device can include but is not limited to a cellular device such as a GSM TDMA CDMA IS 95 and or iDEN phone a cellular WiFi device such as a dual mode GSM TDMA IS 95 and or iDEN VoIP phones UMTS phones UMTS VoIP phones or like devices or combinations thereof. To provide support for a mobile device a gateway routing component can include any suitable component that can perform centralized routing within a mobile satellite or similar network but optionally need not include components that route strictly within a PSTN network routing between communication networks between networks of varying architecture e.g. between PSTN GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Enterprise VoIP the Internet or combinations thereof and the like. Specific examples of a gateway routing component can include but are not limited to a gateway mobile switching center GMSC a gateway general packet radio service GPRS support node GGSN a session border control SBC device or like devices. Additionally a data storage component of such a system can include any suitable device process and or combination device and process that can store digital and or switched information e.g. server database data store or the like .

The aspects described herein include systems apparatus methods and computer readable storage media for display and management of information for communication devices. Display and management of information can be facilitated via display of dynamically updatable wallpaper and or widgets on the communication device. In some embodiments the communication device can also display SM information and or text messages for a particular contact thus providing the user with filtered glances of messaging and or social network activity for up to a number of favorite contacts. The embodiments can also advantageously provide integrated display of heterogeneous e.g. IM MMS SMS IP messaging etc. messaging for a single contact. Bubble notches for messages and or picture curls for contacts pictures or for avatars can be employed to identify the contact to which the message or social network activity is related.

By way of example but not limitation systems apparatus methods and computer readable storage media described herein can enable the selection of a number of favorite contacts and display of avatars or pictures to represent the contacts and provide display and management of information directly on the display of the communication device for the favorite contacts. One click access to messaging and SM information for the contacts is also provided by displaying such information upon detection of a single click or tap on the portion of the user interface UI corresponding to the contact of interest.

By way of another example but not limitation systems apparatus and methods described herein can provide users and or third party developers a unique framework to define visual representation of messaging and SM information via the dynamically updatable wallpaper widgets supporting applications and or a combination of any of the three.

By way of another example but not limitation systems apparatus methods and computer readable storage media described herein can provide display and management of information by providing a supporting applications component configured to provide a split screen layout displaying SM information and text messages for a favorite contact at different parts of the dynamically updatable wallpaper. In other embodiments however the split screen is not provided as part of the wallpaper. Rather the split screen is a screen independent of the wallpaper and that can be displayed to the user via the UI upon the user selecting a contact of interest.

In one aspect a computer implemented method is provided. The method includes displaying via a user interface of a communication device a dynamically updatable wallpaper comprising a personalized theme personalized to a user of the communication device. The method also includes updating the dynamically updatable wallpaper to display one or more animated icons. Displaying the animated icons is based at least on detected activity of respective contacts associated with the one or more animated icons.

In another aspect an apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes a processor a UI component configured to display images indicative of contacts wherein the plurality of contacts are predefined by a user of the apparatus. The apparatus also includes a messaging component configured to integrate different types of text messages for one of the contacts and provide concurrent display of the text messages and social media information for one of the contacts and a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that if executed cause the apparatus to perform one or more functions of the UI component or the messaging component.

In another aspect a computer readable storage medium is provided. The computer readable storage medium has instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause a method to be performed. The method includes displaying via a user interface of a communication device a dynamically updatable wallpaper comprising a personalized theme personalized to a user of the communication device and updating the dynamically updatable wallpaper to display one or more animated icons wherein the displaying the one or more animated icons is based at least on detected activity of a respective one or more contacts associated with the one or more animated icons.

In various embodiments the wallpaper and or widgets can display at a glance views of messages and social updates from selected contacts associated with and or stored on the communication device . In some embodiments the selected contacts can be those indicated as having an important or otherwise high level status by the user owner of the communication device on which the contacts are stored or from which the contacts are accessed. In some embodiments the user of the communication device can populate clouds to which the communication device is communicatively coupled with selected information regarding favorite or selected contacts and or SN preferences. As used herein the term contacts can include information indicative of a real or legal entity including but not limited to a human organization group of entities or the like.

In an aspect the system can include communication devices and a core network . The communication devices can be communicatively coupled to the core network . In various embodiments one or more of communication devices can include the software hardware and or have the functionality and or structure or portions thereof of communication device described below and vice versa .

In various embodiments the core network can include one or more of software hardware and or combination software and hardware configured to provide connectivity to and between the communication devices . The system can include one or more macro Femto and or pico access points APs not shown base stations BS not shown or landline networks e.g. optical landline networks electrical landline networks not shown communicatively coupled between one or more of the communication devices and the core network to provide connectivity between the communication devices and the core network . In various embodiments the communication devices can communicate via any number of various types of wireless technologies including but not limited to cellular WiFi WiMax wireless local area networks WLAN etc. In corresponding embodiments the core network can provide cellular WiFi WiMAX WLAN and other technologies for facilitating such communication. The core network can also include the Internet or another communication network e.g. IP based network a digital subscriber line DSL type or broadband network facilitated by Ethernet or other technology. The core network can also include in various embodiments servers including email multimedia audio weather time video news financial or stock information servers. By way of example but not limitation the core network can include cloud storage for storing information including but not limited to selected contacts for display on the communication devices .

The core network can also include short message service SMS networks and multimedia message service MMS networks. The core network can also include but is not limited to routers nodes switches interfaces and or controllers that can facilitate communication of data to or from the communication devices . The core network can transmit and receive voice text pictorial video audio and or data traffic to and from the communication devices . While only communication devices and are shown in various embodiments the core network can include or can be communicatively coupled to other communication devices inside or outside of the network. In various embodiments the network can also include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software for allocating resources to the communication devices converting or enforcing protocols establishing and or providing levels of Quality of Service QoS applications or services in the network translating signals and or performing other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication to or from the communication devices .

In various embodiments the core network can include or can be communicatively coupled to one or more of SNS servers not shown Internet not shown multimedia servers not shown or email servers not shown for communicating one or more of text or email messages data pictures multimedia voice or video.

The core network can also include databases and or memory storing information and or computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions enabling various operations by the communication devices . In some embodiments the core network can include databases and or memory storing computer executable instructions and or settings for providing display and management of information to from or within the communication devices . In some embodiments a database can store settings and or memory can store computer executable instructions enabling the communication device to provide the messaging as described in greater detail herein. For example the database can store information indicative of time intervals during which information e.g. time news and weather displayed via dynamically updatable wallpaper and or widgets are updated. The database can also include information indicative of whether a contact is a favorite and or selected contact.

In various embodiments the communication devices can be mobile wireless wireline and or optical devices. The communication devices can include but are not limited to a mobile or cellular telephone including but not limited to a smartphone BLUETOOTH device a 3GPP UMTS phone a personal digital assistant PDA computer IP television IPTV wireline phone with mobile messaging functionality gaming console a set top box STB a multi media recorder a multi media player a video recorder a video player an audio recorder an audio player laptop a printer a copier and or a scanner.

In various embodiments the communication devices can include hardware software or a combination of hardware and software facilitating operation according to one or more communication protocols described above with reference to the core network or the functionality facilitated by the hardware software or combination hardware and software described above with reference to the core network . The communication protocols and or functionality can include but are not limited to MMS SMS WLAN WiFi WiMAX GPRS IP IP messaging BLUETOOTH protocols text messaging electronic mail messaging facsimile multimedia and or any number of other protocols or functionalities as described above with reference to the communications protocols or functionalities facilitated by core network . In various embodiments the communication devices can transmit and or receive voice text pictorial video audio and or data traffic to and from the communication devices . In some embodiments the communication devices can include the ANDROID operating system. In some embodiments the communication devices can be configured to include software developed using the ANDROID version 2.1 or later software development kit.

In some embodiments the communication devices can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software to facilitate providing display and management of information to from or within the communication devices as described herein. For example in various embodiments as shown at communication device the communication devices can include a messaging component and a UI component .

In various embodiments the messaging component can be configured to process SM information and or text messages received from and or transmitted to a contact. In various embodiments the UI component can be configured to receive output or display information e.g. dynamically updatable wallpaper dynamically updatable wallpaper and widget combined or widget s alone messaging functions or protocols provide or enable communication to or from the communication device access information stored within or store information within the communication device or receive information output from the communication device .

In one embodiment the UI component is configured to display a plurality of images indicative of a plurality of contacts wherein the plurality of contacts are determined by the user of the communication device .

The messaging component is configured to provide concurrent access to text messages and SM information for one of the plurality of contacts. In some embodiments providing concurrent access to text messages and SM information for the contact is based on the UI component receiving a single input selecting the contact.

The communication device can also include a processor and a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that if executed cause the apparatus to perform one or more functions of the UI component or the messaging component .

In some embodiments the UI component is further configured to receive an input indicative of a selection of one of the plurality of the contacts. The plurality of images can be a plurality of pictures in some cases and a selected picture can be displayed with a picture curl to provide an efficient visual indicator to the user of the communication device as to which contact has been selected.

In some embodiments the UI component is further configured to receive an input indicative of a selection of one of the contacts and concurrently display one or more text messages and SM information associated with the selected contact. In some embodiments the text messages and the SM information are displayed concurrently but in different portions of the UI.

In various embodiments the UI component can display dynamically updatable wallpaper that includes animated icons e.g. fish buoys etc. representative of contacts. The animated icons can be assigned to the contacts by the user of the communication device .

While the embodiments described include animated icons being assigned by the user of the communication device in some embodiments the contact or any third party can send the user of the communication device a selected icon or avatar to represent the contact. As such the contact or a third party can select the icon representative of the contact.

Additionally as used herein the terms icons and animated icons each mean images animations figures pictures avatars capable of becoming animated or having animation displayed therefore through action of the icons .

Turning back to the animated icons can be displayed by the UI component upon the messaging component detecting social network activity of the contact corresponding to the icon and or receipt of a text message from or in some cases transmission of a text message to the contact. While exemplary animated icons are fish and buoys the animated icons can be any number of objects or images able to be visually displayed in a wallpaper.

By way of example but not limitation different wallpaper with different personalized themes can be displayed via the communication device . Accordingly embodiments herein provide a personalized scheme personalized to the mobile user. Other examples of wallpapers besides the fish scheme providing the personalized schemes described herein include but are not limited to super hero themes mailman versus dog themes owl or other bird messenger themes a jellyfish and ocean theme and poster themes.

The activity displayed to indicate the social networking activity and or messaging can be based on the theme. For example in a poster theme new activity can be displayed as a new horizontal row of text above the previous rows of text forming an image of a poster with horizontal rows of wording in which the rows represents different activity. The wallpaper can depict activity by scrolling down previously displayed messaging information and displaying new messaging such as that shown on .

As another example a jellyfish and ocean theme in which the wallpaper activity displays the jellyfish swimming in the ocean and providing information about messaging is shown in .

As another example the owl messenger theme in which the wallpaper activity displays the owl or other bird flying and carrying an envelope or other indicia of messaging content is shown in .

In various embodiments the systems methods and apparatus herein can also display messaging information for the wallpapers and can do so at varying levels of privacy. The messaging information can be messaging information via text messages or via posts and other messages from SNSs.

By way of example but not limitation private conservative and open levels of messaging can be displayed via the wallpaper. Since the messages are displayed via the wallpaper some users may want to limit the information about the messages that can seen by others who are near the communication device and therefore able to see the wallpaper and messaging information. The level of messaging can be set and re set by the user of the communication device according to the user s preferences. In some embodiments the preference can be automatically changed according to a time of day day of the week or any other criteria designated by the user.

With a private level of privacy a visual indication that a message has been received can be displayed but details of the contact that sent the message and details of the content of the message would not be displayed. For example in the above referenced owl messenger scheme an owl can be displayed merely holding an envelope. As another example in the poster theme text can display wording merely informing the user that a message has been received e.g. You received a text message .

With a conservative level of privacy a visual indication of the identity of a sender of a message can be displayed. In some embodiments the source of the message text message versus FACEBOOK message but details of the content of the message would not be displayed. For example in the above referenced owl messenger scheme the owl can be displayed holding an envelope that displays the name of the sender of the message. As another example in the poster theme text can display wording merely informing the user that a message has been received from a particular contact that is named as part of the display e.g. Rob sent you a text message .

With an open level of privacy a visual indication of the identity of a sender of a message can be displayed along with the source of the message and the content of the message. For example in the above referenced owl messenger scheme the owl can be displayed holding an opened enveloped that shows a piece of paper that includes the name of the sender the source of the message and the content of the message. As another example in the poster theme text can display wording merely informing the user that of the name of the particular contact source of the contact and the message content e.g. Email from Rob. Subject Party Tonight. Email Message Are you still going to the party tonight Whose driving .

In some embodiments with the open level of privacy the content of the message is abbreviated and the user must select or activate the UI or scroll through the truncated message to display the entire message.

Widgets can also be displayed in addition to or in lieu of the wallpaper. A widget can include avatars or pictures displaying the one or more contacts when the widget is in a collapsed state and a history of SM information and or text messages for the contact along with the avatars and pictures when the widget is in an expanded state. In various embodiments the SM information and the text messages can be displayed by the UI component in different portions of the UI.

While display and management of information are described with reference to communication device in various embodiments the communication device can be or include one or more of the functions or structure or portions thereof of communication device or and vice versa .

The communication device can include a UI component a messaging component a contacts mechanism a SM component a processor memory I O component notification component and overlay component . One or more of the UI component messaging component contacts mechanism SM component processor memory I O component notification component and or overlay component can be communicatively coupled to one another to perform the functions described by communication device provided herein.

The I O component can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software facilitating receipt and output of information to and from the communication device . The information received can be SM information text messages emails news weather sports time global positioning system GPS information and or inputs provided by a user of the communication device .

Turning next to the UI component the UI component can control the UI for the communication device . The UI can be any number of different types of UIs including but not limited to a graphical user interface GUI a touch sensitive interface e.g. a touch screen an interface having capability for receiving audio or video input and outputting audio or video information and the like. In some embodiments described herein the UI can include a touch screen configured to receive inputs at the touch screen and graphically output information for information display and or management from the touch screen.

The UI can be enabled to display alpha and or numeric characters pictorial and image content as well as widget and other animated icons buttons text boxes and other visual content in various embodiments for displaying and managing information via the communication device . By way of example but not limitation the GUI can display dynamically updatable wallpaper widgets widgets in wallpaper and or supporting applications such as that shown and described in greater detail below with reference to .

In some embodiments dynamically updatable wallpaper displays animated icons images and activity of the animated icons and images to represent activity or messages to or from one or more SN friends or contacts with which the user of the communication device is affiliated. For example the wallpaper can be updated to display different animated icons images and or pictures as social activity being monitored by the communication device changes.

Widgets can be provided to facilitate display of images or avatars of contacts and or various information associated with the contacts. In various embodiments a contact can be selected and one or more different applications can be launched by selecting the contact. In some embodiments the application is launched immediately upon a single click or tap on the portion of the UI corresponding to the contact. For example in one embodiment the application can be a SN application controlled by the SM component . The SM component can aggregate SM information and or voice calls or messages associated with the selected contact.

The UI component can include an dynamically updatable wallpaper component a widget component and a supporting applications component . The dynamically updatable wallpaper component is configured to generate and update the wallpaper displayed on the communication device . The wallpaper can utilize bitmap assets to develop different styles of the wallpaper since simple layering and movement of images is described herein. More complex object deformations can be performed using two dimensional drawing primitives e.g. ANDROID SKIA 2D drawing library or the use of Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGLES .

The wallpaper can be displayed based on the social network activity and or text messages received from and or transmitted to a contact. The contact can be designated by an icon and the icon can appear on the wallpaper when the social network activity is detected and or text messages are received from or transmitted to the contact associated with the icon. The contact can be assigned to the icon by the user of the communication device .

Examples of dynamically updatable wallpaper are shown in . The wallpaper is dynamically updatable. Turning to such figures the dynamically updatable wallpaper can include a viewable area foreground elements and in some cases background elements . The viewable area is not actionable in some embodiments. The foreground elements can include animated icons that represent contacts and or other animated icons that represent information that the end user can easily view and understand. The foreground elements shown in include the water fish which can appear on the wallpaper when there has been social network activity by a favorite contact buoy which can appear when a message associated with a favorite contact has been detected and non active fish which can represent contacts for which no social network activity and or new messages have been detected for a period of time and or for which all messages have been read . The background elements can provide a context for the locations and or activity of the animated icons. For example the background elements can include the clouds or plane shown on the wallpaper.

Turning to dynamically updatable wallpaper is shown for three states of activity by contacts identified by the user. For example in there is no contact activity and hence only non active fish are shown. As shown in some embodiments non active fish are shown underwater. Accordingly a user can easily determine that there has been no activity by favorite contacts by simply viewing the wallpaper on the communication device and noting that only non active fish are shown.

In the communication device has detected social network activity for the contact associated with the fish . As such the wallpaper is updated by the dynamically updatable wallpaper component to display the fish . The fish is shown jumping from the water repeatedly in some embodiments until the user reviews the social network activity.

In the communication device has detected social network activity for another contact e.g. the contact associated with the fish . As such the wallpaper is updated by the dynamically updatable wallpaper component to display the fish and fish . The user of the communication device can therefore visually detect that social network activity has transpired for two of the user s favorite contacts by merely watching the display of the communication device .

Further in some embodiments the icon and or activity of the icon can be assigned or generated based on a priority that can be assigned to the contact. For example users with higher priority within the set of favorite contacts can be represented by bigger animated icons or animated icons considered to have more power or be more dominant than animated icons that represent contacts having lower priority. The priority can be assigned by the user of the communication device. By way of another example but not limitation the activity of an icon can vary by the priority of the contact represented by the icon. For example the speed of the activity can be faster for social network activity or detected messages associated with a higher priority icon. In some embodiments for example the speed or frequency at which the fish jumps out of the water can be faster for a higher priority contact than for a lower priority contact.

As shown in the dynamically updatable wallpaper can also include animated icons that can be activated to display information and or launch an application. For example icon can be activated to display news or weather information icon can be activated to display the time and icon can be activated to display email or launch an email application.

Turning back to the UI component also includes a widget component . The widget component can display a widget on the UI of the communication device . In various embodiments the widget in a collapsed state can be a display of one or more contacts such as that shown in . In various embodiments the widget in an expanded state can be a display of one or more contacts and SM information and or text messages to or from a contact such as that shown in .

As shown in the widget can be displayed as pictures of the one or more contacts and as shown at contact Allison a badge or indicia of a number of messages received from or transmitted to Allison. To activate the widget thereby causing the widget to be displayed in the expanded state a user can tap on the portion of the UI corresponding to the contact bubble portion or the contact strip portion of the widget.

As shown in at an up arrow is displayed and can be clicked to make the widget active. As shown at a badge or other indicia of a number of unread messages and or SM information is associated with the contact is provided.

As shown at a picture representing a contact is displayed and at an avatar representing a contact is displayed. The strip can also include the names of contacts as shown and or a unique color and or pattern assignment for the contact. The color and or pattern assignment can be assigned by the user of the communication device . In some embodiments a maximum number of users can be displayed in the widget. The widget can be configured to resize and or center according to the number of contacts displayed.

Centering can be relative to the message bubble portion of the widget also shown in . The message bubble can include up to a predetermined number of recent messages. The user of the communication device can scroll through the messages vertically and or tap on a single message to take action relative to the message. Exemplary actions can include replying to the message expanding the message on the wallpaper or the like. The message bubble can include a pointer pointing to the contact within the contact strip portion of the widget for which the message is associated. While not shown in bubbles can also include SM information as shown and discussed below with reference to .

In various embodiments the contact strip portion of the widget can be vertical diagonal circular or any number of other shapes. In another example the widget is merely an arrangement of one or more contacts and need not be formed into a contiguous strip of any shape. For example the widget could be displayed as a random arrangement of pictures or avatars on the wallpaper.

The message bubble portion of the widget is shown in different states in . In a message bubble having an unread direct message is shown. The message is an SMS or MMS message or any other type of message sent privately to the user via a social network. For unread messages an indicator that the message is new is displayed next to the activity source timestamp information. A collapsing arrow is provided for collapsing or expanding the message vertical scroll bar or other vertical scroll control is provided for vertically scrolling through one or more messages in the message bubble and a copy of the message is shown in the message bubble as well.

In a message bubble having a read direct message is shown. No indicator of a new message is included contrary to that shown in message bubble . In some embodiments the message is considered read once it has been viewed in the expanded state widget. However in some embodiments a message truncated because it is longer than the viewable area of the message bubble will not be considered read until a supporting application is launched to display the entire message. The supporting application can display the message such as that shown in discussed in more detail below with reference to supporting applications component of . In some embodiments although not shown the message can include Read text or any other indicator to indicator that the message has been read.

In once a direct message has had a reply transmitted the message bubble can be as shown in message bubble . An indicator indicator that a reply message has been transmitted can be displayed.

At the user taps on or otherwise activates contact Allison to awake the widget with regard to Allison s activity. In this case Allison sent SM information via a TWITTER message 3 minutes ago and the SM information is shown by displaying the widget in the expanded state. At the user taps on another contact Sarah to view SM information and or messages associated with Sarah. The user can flick the message bubble to vertically scroll through the message.

In some embodiments group messaging not shown between two or more contacts can be facilitated. In this embodiment multiple contacts or indicia or animated icons representing contacts can be shown via the UI. For example in lieu of showing only a single contact on a screen such as that shown at multiple contacts can be shown on the screen. The screen can also display the social network activity and or messaging between a group of contacts and the user and or between contacts. As such the user can monitor activity from multiple contacts of interest concurrently.

Turning back to the UI component also includes a supporting applications component . The supporting applications component can provide a display of SM information and text messages upon activation of the widget discussed above with reference to . For example the supporting applications component can control the display of the SM information text messages and contact information and static icons for launching applications in three respective portions of the UI.

By way of example but not limitation illustrate displays controlled by the supporting applications component . As shown contact information and static icons activatable for launching applications are displayed in a first portion of the UI SM information is displayed in a second portion of the UI text messages or private messages sent to or from a SNS are displayed in a third portion of the UI. Avatars or pictures representing contacts are displayed in a fourth portion of the UI. While the UI is shown with the arrangements of the SM information messaging contact information static activatable for launching applications and or the avatars and pictures need not be arranged as shown and can be arranged in any number of configurations such that different information is provided in different non overlapping portions of the UI.

In some embodiments a supporting applications component which will be discussed in detail below can cause the UI to display one or more different views simultaneously or concurrently. The different views include a view of one or more contacts with which the communication device is associated or that are stored on or associated with the communication device . For example a contact strip can display one or more images associated with a profile for contacts. The UI can detect input at the UI for launching other applications associated with the icon. For example a phone icon in this display would launch a dialer application to initiate a call to one of the contacts. The telephone number called can be the telephone number associated with the contact and accessible by the communication device .

Another view can include a communications view that displays voice calls and or messages. Another view can include a social activity view that can display SN activity from SN friends with which the user of the communication device is associated. SN activity includes activity provided to or from a SNS including but not limited to FACEBOOK TWITTER MYSPACE MY LIFE LINKEDIN . The UI can also detect input at the UI for initiating an inline reply to the social network activity. For example the social network activity can be a wall post and the UI can detect an input at the UI e.g. touch input selecting the wall post. Detection of the selection of the post can enable the messaging component to initiate inline reply functionality for generating an inline reply to the wall post. The reply can then be posted at the SNS.

Turning back to the messaging component is configured to transmit and or receive the messages associated with contacts. In some embodiments messaging component can provide one or more of the functions of the messaging component of .

In some embodiments the messaging component can perform functions for replying to a message. In some embodiments incoming messages can be identified and a determination can be made as to whether a user has interacted with the message via a native messaging application. Using the native messaging application can enable all types of MMS messages e.g. slideshow video voice recording to be seamlessly viewed.

In some embodiments the messaging component is configured to control the operation of one or more messaging applications. By way of example but not limitation messaging applications can include text based voice based video based and or combination voice and audio based applications such as text messaging instant messaging private messages sent via SNSs internet and landline telephony and or audio and textual voicemail communications. By way of other examples but without limitation messaging applications can include applications utilizing short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS instant messaging IM protocols and or text over internet protocol ToIP messaging.

The messaging component can be configured to receive inputs from the I O component and format transmit and or receive messaging content in response to the inputs received. The messaging content can include a threaded list of one or more messages or calls received at or transmitted from the communication device for one or more contacts. The messages can be text messages instant messages email messages voicemail messages or any other messages that can be provided to the user. The calls can be telephone calls communicated over PSTN networks cellular networks and or Internet telephony calls. The content of the messages and or calls can be provided in message bubbles or other shapes or indicia and in some embodiments can be associated with or displayed with an identifier of the initiator of the messaging content. In some embodiments the messaging component can facilitate creation and transmission of a quick reply.

The contacts mechanism can include the contacts component for initiating the contacts application providing contacts information for a contact. In some embodiments the contacts component is configured to control the operation of one or more contact applications. The contact applications can provide and or enable display deletion or editing contacts related information. By way of example but not limitation contacts related information can include in case of emergency ICE information such as names and contact information of emergency contacts information regarding allergies medications and other health related information provided by the owner of the communication device .

The contacts related information can also include voice email and or geographical contact information for an individual or group in a contacts repository accessible by the communication device

In some embodiments the contacts component includes a built in contacts sync mechanism that applications with a centralized API. This API allows for contacts to pull SM information from several different social networking accounts. The merge provides the ability to have a single view of a contact and all of the streams of SM information for the contact.

In some embodiments a user can join social network friends with contacts in the communication device contacts address book. After the SNS account has been verified and contacts have been synced the user is signed into the SNS. The SNS contact list can display the SNS friends that are not joined with a contact in the communication device address book. The user can then join the social network friend to the corresponding contact.

In some embodiments the communication device can provide functionality for linking contacts such as that described with reference to the SM component .

The contacts mechanism can also include a data store component for storing information associated with the contact. Such information can include but is not limited to animated icons avatars and or pictures assigned to a contact.

In some embodiments the contacts repository can be included in the data store component of the communication device . As such the contacts related information can be mobile home work and or fax numbers email addresses physical street addresses social network identification information a social network identification or the like. The contacts related information can also include information about the individual or the group including but not limited to biographical information such as the birthday or date of incorporation of the individual and group respectively favorite foods of an individual and or other information specific to the individual or group that the user of the communication device can want to access. The contacts related information can include information that the user has stored locally on the communication device e.g. in the address book of the communication device and or that the user can access from a location that is remote from the physical location of the communication device .

The communication device also can include a processor . The processor can enable the communication device to process data relating to display and or management of information updating the wallpaper activating or displaying widgets or static that can be activated to launch applications and or provide news weather time or email information displaying information on the UI generating or displaying an overlay display region generating or processing notifications and associated notification related information and the like. In some embodiments the processor can be configured to execute computer executable instructions to perform one or more of the functions described herein for the communication device and the memory can store the computer executable instructions and or information for performing the operations described herein.

In various embodiments the processor can be configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any component within the communication device in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation. As another example the processor can facilitate enabling the communication device to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and the like.

In various embodiments the communication device can include a notification component . The notification component can be configured to generate notifications from the communication device . The notification component can be configured to automatically re size notifications to fit the screen size for the communication device in landscape or portrait orientation and or based on whether a media is attached to the notification. For example if media is attached to a notification the media can be re sized for presentation in a particular orientation.

The notification component can also receive one or more notifications from one or more communication devices e.g. mobile communication devices application servers social networking sites etc. or generate notifications relating to local applications e.g. electronic calendar application alarm clock application etc. . The notification component also can facilitate processing the received or generated notifications and associated notification related information to facilitate presenting the notification and or desired notification related information to the communication device user via the UI e.g. overlay display region and or associated UI components e.g. speakers vibration generator etc. .

In various embodiments notifications can include but are not limited to notifications indicating an alarm missed alarm message quick reply a new message notification low battery power mute state incoming call volume and or system notifications. In various embodiments the alarms and other notifications can be displayed or otherwise output from the communication device and or incoming calls can be received on the communication device while the communication device is in the timeout state.

In various embodiments the communication device can also include an overlay component . The overlay component can control the display of an overlay of information on the UI of the communication device . An overlay component can overlay alarms notifications text animated or static icons and or other information for the display and management of information described herein.

In some embodiments the overlay can be a temporary overlay that is displayed during a time interval corresponding with an event. For example indicia of an incoming message can be overlayed over other information displayed by the UI. The indicia of the incoming message can include any information for alerting a user that an incoming message is in progress and or for displaying information about the incoming message. In some embodiments the incoming message can include the name telephone number associated with the message date of the incoming message time of the incoming message and or text the entirety or a portion of the message. The overlay can be a temporary overlay that is displayed during a time interval that is concurrent with the time that the message is incoming. In some embodiments information or indicia of the incoming message can be overlaid on the screen. In some embodiments on going calls and or the timer counting down during the timeout state can be displayed in an overlay on the screen and or overlaid on the previous content of the screen.

The communication device can include a memory . The memory can store information and or settings and or computer executable instructions for performing one or more functions described herein for the communication device . In various embodiments the memory can store data structures e.g. user data application data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions message hashes neighbor cell list information relating to securing the communication device and information associated therewith displaying information in the UI display screen generating or displaying an overlay display region generating or processing notifications and associated notification related information network or device information like policies and specifications attachment protocols code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission frequency offsets cell IDs encoding algorithms compression algorithms decoding algorithms decompression algorithms and so on. In an aspect the processor can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the memory in order to store and retrieve information e.g. neighbor cell list information relating to securing the communication device and information associated therewith displaying information in the UI display screen generating or displaying an overlay display region generating or processing notifications and associated notification related information frequency offsets desired algorithms etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the messaging component UI component overlay component notification component SM component contacts mechanism and or substantially any other operational aspects or components of the communication device .

The communication device can also include a SM component that can include multiple components for communicatively coupling the communication device to the SNSs . In the embodiment shown the SM component includes a FACEBOOK content component TWITTER content component and any other content component for a SNS .

The content components can provide functionality for accessing and transmitting SM information between the SNSs and the SM component on individual connections as compared to an aggregated connection. As such each of the FACEBOOK content component and TWITTER content component for example transmit and receive only FACEBOOK and TWITTER SM respectively. The connections are dedicated connections dedicated for a particular SNS.

In various embodiments the SM component is configured to control the receipt aggregation generation output and or filtering of SM information at the communication device . By way of example but not limitation SM information can include but is not limited to information associated with or output from SM feeds blog information chat information instant messaging information and the like. The SM information can be displayed in any number of arrangements including but not limited to the subject matter of the SM feed the social networking site from which the SM feed is provided and or the chronological order of the SM feeds. In some embodiments the SM information can include comments posted or a number of comments posted in association with one or more SM feeds for the individual. In some embodiments one or more comments can be shown on the UI with the one or more feeds. The SM applications can include applications that provide social media feeds news feeds and wall postings from FACEBOOK activity updates e.g. tweets from TWITTER or other information from SNSs such as MYSPACE websites of interest and the like.

Turning to the SNG component the SNG component can be configured to communicate with the SNSs . The SNG component can transmit information to the SNSs and or receive information from the SNSs .

The SNSs can be the FACEBOOK SNS TWITTER SNS and or MYSPACE SNS in various embodiments. In other embodiments the SNSs can be any sites from which SM information can be retrieved by the communication device including but not limited to the LINKEDIN and design SNS the MYLIFE SNS and the like. In some embodiments the communication device the internet and the SNG component and in various embodiments one or more of the SNSs can be communicatively coupled to one another to perform the functions of system described herein.

In some embodiments the SNG component can provide a gateway between the SNSs and the SM component of the communication device . The SNG component can receive SM information from the SNSs and transmit the information to the communication device and or the SM component of the communication device . The SM component can aggregate the SM information from the SNSs and as such connecting to the SNG component can provide a single connection for the communication device over which the communication device can assemble and optimize data and other SM feeds. In some embodiments the data and SM feeds can be in the network and or in the cloud.

In some embodiments in lieu of or in addition to employing the connection between the SNG component and the SM component to provide aggregated SM information the system can include a framework whereby individual connections are provided from the SNSs to the communication device . In some embodiments available public application programming interfaces APIs can be employed to assemble data and or SM feeds on the communication device . As such the communication device can be configured to retrieve information from the SNSs and or to provide information to the SNSs using native APIs.

In embodiments of the system that include the SNG component the SNG component can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software for providing communication between the SNSs and the communication device . In various embodiments the SNG component can be a network server with which the communication device is communicatively coupled. In some embodiments the SNG component can be located on a first network with the communication device and the SNSs can be located on a second network. The second network can be included in the internet in some embodiments.

By way of example but not limitation in some embodiments credentials for the communication device to sign in to or connect to or retrieve information from a SNS can be received at the communication device and output to the SNG component . The SNG component can be configured to receive the credential information and output the credentials to the SNS of interest.

By way of other examples but not limitation the SNG component can be configured to perform registration of the communication device transmit login and logoff information for the user of the communication device from the SNSs retrieve data and or feeds from the SNSs retrieve SN contact activity information e.g. notifications status updates wall postings changes to SM profile information photos avatars and the like .

In various embodiments as described herein and with reference to any number of different applications including but not limited to a messaging application a contacts application and or a social media application where an entity person or individual is discussed the entity person or individual can be a legal or natural entity person or individual. Similarly in various embodiments as described herein and with reference to any number of different applications including but not limited to a messaging application a contacts application and or a social media application where an entity or group is discussed herein the entity or group can include one or more legal or natural entities persons or individuals. By way of example but not limitation an entity or group could be an organization a business entity a group of humans and or a group including a legal and a natural person or entity.

Turning now to methods and illustrate flowcharts of exemplary methods for facilitating display and management of information at a communication device in accordance with various aspects and embodiments described herein. Referring first to at method can include displaying via a user interface of a communication device a dynamically updatable wallpaper comprising a personalized theme personalized to a user of the communication device. At method can include updating the dynamically updatable wallpaper to display one or more animated icons wherein the displaying the one or more animated icons is based at least on detected activity of a respective one or more contacts associated with the one or more animated icons.

The animated icons can be associated with different contacts. The animated icons can be associated by the user of the communication device at time of device setup and or as new contacts are made or the user determines that a contact is a favorite contact or of a high enough level of contact or that there is a great enough interest by the user of watching the social network activity and or being alerted of messages for the contact that assigning the contact to an icon is warranted. In some embodiments up to five contacts can be assigned to icons. In other embodiments any number of contacts can be assigned to icons limited only by the display area of the wallpaper for the communication device.

By way of example but not limitation if social network activity is detected for a first contact the icon can be displayed on the wallpaper and if social network activity is detected for a second contact a second icon can be displayed. As shown in the icon can be a fish for example with one fish representing a first contact and a second fish such as that shown in C representing activity of two contacts.

In some embodiments at method can include updating the dynamically updatable wallpaper to display activity of the one or more animated icons wherein the activity is based on the type of the detected activity. The activity can be indicative of detected social network activity. The activity can be indicative of a read or unread state of messages.

The activity can be any of a number of different types of movements or visualizations of the animated icons. For example when social network activity is detected the icon can be displayed jumping. With reference to the fish icon can leap out of the water when social network activity for the associated contact is detected.

Turning now to can be as described with reference to . At method can include updating the dynamically updatable wallpaper to display activity of the one or more animated icons wherein the activity is indicative of a read or unread state of the detected message. For example in some embodiments when a message is received for a contact the icon associated with the contact may be displayed as performing an action repeatedly until the message is read e.g. jumping blinking turning or any other repeated action . By contrast in some embodiments when a message is read and there is no recent social network activity for a contact the icon associated with the contact can be displayed having a non repetitive activity and or being located in a certain region in the wallpaper. For example the icon can be a fish in water and can be displayed under water when there is no recent social activity and or all messages have been read from the contact.

Turning now to can be as described with reference to . At method can include displaying a widget on the dynamically updatable wallpaper. The widget can be a display of one or more contacts. For example the widget can be a strip displaying one or more contacts or avatars or other images or information representing the contacts . For example the strip can be as shown in . In another example the strip can be vertical diagonal circular or any number of other shapes. In another example the widget is merely an arrangement of one or more contacts and need not be formed into a contiguous strip of any shape. For example the widget could be displayed as a random arrangement of avatars on the wallpaper.

The widget can be displayed in a collapsed state in which social media SM information associated with a contact and or text messages associated with a contact are not displayed. Rather in this embodiment the widget merely displays one or more contacts and indicia of a number of messages or amount of social network activity associated with each of the one or more contacts. As shown in the widget can be displayed as pictures of the one or more contacts and as shown at contact Allison a number of messages received from or transmitted to Allison.

The widget can also be displayed in an expanded state displaying the one or more contacts and one or more of the messages or SM information associated with the one or more contacts. This embodiment can be as shown in .

At method can include receiving or transmitting one or more text messages from or to the selected contact. At method can include displaying the SM information and the one or more text messages concurrently. The concurrently displayed SM information and text messages can be displayed on a single UI of the communication device. For example the dynamically updatable wallpaper can be updated to display the SM information and the text messages associated with a particular contact. In one embodiment the SM information is displayed in a first portion of a UI and the one or more text messages are displayed in a second portion of the UI. In some embodiments for example a portion of the wallpaper can be designated to be updated to display SM information and not text messages. By contrast another portion of the wallpaper can be designated to display text messages and not SM information. The embodiment can be as shown in with the SM information in a middle portion of the wallpaper and the text messages in a lower portion of the wallpaper and just above an avatar or picture associated with the contact. The text messages can be a history of the most recent text messages transmitted to and or received from the contact to which the text messages are visually associated. In some embodiments that display more than one contact on the wallpaper the contact for which SM information or text messages are displayed can be indicated by highlighting a portion of the contact avatar or picture displaying a picture curl on the avatar or picture of any other way of differentiating the contact from the other contacts displayed.

At method can include displaying contact information and one or more static icons activatable to launch an application for communicating with the selected contact. The contact information and the one or more static icons activatable to launch the application can be displayed concurrently with the SM information and the one or more text messages. For example the contact information and one or more static icons activatable to launch an application can be displayed at a top portion of the wallpaper as shown in . The application can be an application to launch a telephone call to the contact for which SM information and or text messages are displayed to initiate an email to initiate an SMS MMS or other text message to launch a contacts application displaying the contacts page for the contact to launch a SNS or the like.

The embodiments described above are merely exemplary and the portions of the UI or wallpaper displaying the SM information text messages and contact information and static icons activatable to launch an application can be in any non overlapping portions of the UI as dictated by the communication device designer and or as configured by the user of the communication device.

In various embodiments the messages described herein can be TWITTER instant message SMS or MMS messages or any number of other different types of text messages.

In the embodiments described in methods and in some cases the dynamically updatable wallpaper further comprises an icon activatable to display information on the dynamically updatable wallpaper. The information can be news weather time or other information. In some embodiments the information can be email information and or a text box or other mechanism for creating an email.

While the embodiments described herein are described with reference to a combination of two or more components in various embodiments one or more of the functions or structure or part thereof associated with the two or more components of the communication devices can be performed by a single component or more than two components. Further steps associated with various methods described herein that are described with reference to multiple components or applications can be performed by a single component or application. Finally multiple steps can be combined and performed in a single step single steps can be performed as multiple steps and steps described as being performed in sequence or parallel can be performed partly or completely in parallel or sequence respectively.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the disclosed subject matter can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any suitable media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media and can be implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to read only memory ROM random access memory RAM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information and which can be accessed by one or more computing devices or other storage devices. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

In accordance with various aspects the computing environment for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors such a single core processor a multi core processor or any other suitable arrangement of processors. The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory can include ROM random access memory RAM high speed RAM such as static RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM flash memory and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the computer can include a hard disk drive upon which program instructions data and the like can be retained. Moreover removable data storage can be associated with the computer . Hard disk drives removable media computer readable storage media etc. can be communicatively coupled to the processing unit by way of the system bus .

The system memory can retain a number of program modules such as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. All or portions of an operating system applications modules and or data can be for instance cached in RAM retained upon a hard disk drive or any other suitable location. A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices such as a keyboard pointing and clicking mechanism pressure sensitive screen microphone joystick stylus pen etc. A monitor or other type of interface can also be connected to the system bus .

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers phones or other computing devices such as workstations server computers routers personal computers portable computers microprocessor based entertainment appliances peer devices or other common network nodes etc. The computer can connect to other devices networks by way of antenna port network interface adaptor wireless access point modem and or the like.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least WiFi and BLUETOOTH wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

WiFi allows connection to the Internet from a desired location e.g. couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work etc. without wires. WiFi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. mobile phones computers etc. to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. WiFi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A WiFi network can be used to connect communication devices e.g. mobile phones computers etc. to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . WiFi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The embedded client communicates with an application APP that provides services and or information to an end user. One example of the application can be navigation software that provides near real time traffic information that is received via the embedded client to the end user. The navigation software can provide road conditions suggest alternate routes etc. based at least in part on the location of the MS . Those of ordinary skill in the art understand that there are many different methods and systems of locating an MS .

Alternatively the MS and a device can be enabled to communicate via a short range wireless communication link such as BLUETOOTH technologies. For example a BLUETOOTH SIM Access Profile can be provided in an automobile e.g. device that communicates with the SIM in the MS to enable the automobile s communications system to pull information from the MS . The BLUETOOTH communication system in the vehicle becomes an embedded phone that employs an antenna associated with the automobile. The result is improved reception of calls made in the vehicle. As one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize an automobile is one example of the device . There can be an endless number of devices that use the SIM within the MS to provide services information data audio video etc. to end users.

The BTS is physical equipment such as a radio tower that enables a radio interface to communicate with the MS. Each BTS can serve more than one MS. The BSC manages radio resources including the BTS. The BSC can be connected to several BTSs. The BSC and BTS components in combination are generally referred to as a base station BSS or radio access network RAN .

The GSM core network also includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC performs a switching function for the network. The MSC also performs other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC provides a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . In other words the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR is a database or component s that comprises administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. The HLR also includes the current location of each MS. The VLR is a database or component s that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR contains information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM. The AuC provides the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR stores security sensitive information about the mobile equipment.

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one Short Message Service SMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push e.g. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router is provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. It is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as speech data and short message service SMS the MS first registers with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. The MS sends a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information is then sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR is updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update also is performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update is periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

The GPRS network is logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN controls the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN also keeps track of individual MS s locations and security functions and access controls.

A Cell Broadcast Center CBC communicates cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile phone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN provides a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . In embodiments the GGSN provides interworking functionality with external networks and sets up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN. When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it is transferred to an external Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN.

In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services can be used in parallel. The MS can operate in one three classes class A class B and class C. A class A MS can attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. A class A MS also supports simultaneous operation of GPRS services and GSM services. For example class A mobiles can receive GSM voice data SMS calls and GPRS data calls at the same time. A class B MS can attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. However a class B MS does not support simultaneous operation of the GPRS services and GSM services. That is a class B MS can only use one of the two services at a given time. A class C MS can attach for only one of the GPRS services and GSM services at a time. Simultaneous attachment and operation of GPRS services and GSM services is not possible with a class C MS.

A GPRS network can be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM NOM and NOM . A network operation mode of a GPRS network is indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages dictates a MS where to listen for paging messages and how signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network. In a NOM network a MS can receive pages from a circuit switched domain e.g. voice call when engaged in a data call. The MS can suspend the data call or take both simultaneously depending on the ability of the MS. In a NOM network a MS cannot receive pages from a circuit switched domain when engaged in a data call since the MS is receiving data and is not listening to a paging channel. In a NOM network a MS can monitor pages for a circuit switched network while received data and vice versa.

The IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and includes an IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within the IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS can be common to the GSM network the GPRS network as well as the IP multimedia network .

The IP multimedia system is built around the call session control function CSCF of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF forwards session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF can also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator e.g. address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF can contact a subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSS are present. The S CSCF performs the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. The S CSCF also decides whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision is based on information received from the HSS or other sources such as an application server . The AS also communicates to a location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS .

The HSS contains a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF provides interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISDN User Part ISUP Bearer Independent Call Control BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown . It also controls the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between Adaptive Multi Rate AMR and Pulse code modulation PCM coded voice . The MGW also communicates with other IP multimedia networks .

In some embodiments the IP networks described herein include networks communicatively coupled to social networking sites. As such the networks disclosed herein can also include such IP networks and one or more social networking sites.

It is to be appreciated and understood that components e.g. UE AP core network security component UI overlay component etc. as described with regard to a particular system or methodology can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methodologies disclosed herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. For example information relevant to operation of various components described in the disclosed subject matter and that can be stored in a memory can comprise but is not limited to comprising subscriber information cell configuration e.g. devices served by an AP or service policies and specifications privacy policies and so forth. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM programmable ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM phase change memory PCM flash memory or nonvolatile RAM e.g. ferroelectric RAM FeRAM . Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

As used in this application the terms component system platform interface module and the like can refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components and can be as simple as a command line or as complex as an Integrated Development Environment IDE . Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal .

Furthermore the embodiments can or can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer apparatus or article of manufacture to implement the functionality disclosed herein. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program or computer program product accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier computer readable media or computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip optical disks e.g. compact disk CD DVD Blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and or flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can carry computer readable electronic data e.g. the data transmitted and received via email and or to access the Internet or a network such as a LAN . As known to those of ordinary skill in the art modifications can be made to the above embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is merely intended to present examples of embodiments. Further as used herein the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the inclusive permutations e.g. X employs A X employs B X employs A and B . In addition the articles a and an as used herein should be construed to mean one or more unless as specified otherwise or clear from context the articles are directed to only a singular form.

As used herein the terms infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system apparatus method environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. By way of examples but not limitation inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states. The inference can be probabilistic e.g. the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events . Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference can result in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

What has been described above includes embodiments of claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter. However one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of such subject matter are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

