---

title: Audio-based text messaging
abstract: A device that enable users to send and receive a message in different formats may include a text message gateway, an audio message gateway, and a processor. The text message gateway may include a Short Message Service (SMS) gateway. The audio message gateway may include an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) unit and/or a client application interface that receives audio from a client application of a mobile communications device. The processor may be configured to convert text messages received at the text-message gateway into audio messages and then to send the audio messages via the audio message gateway. The processor may also be configured to convert audio messages received at the audio message gateway into text messages and then to send the text messages via the text message gateway.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602672&OS=09602672&RS=09602672
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09602672
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150330
---
The instant application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 255 492 filed Apr. 17 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 995 974 issued Mar. 31 2015 which is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 636 167 filed Dec. 11 2009 issued May 27 2014 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 737 975. The contents of each of the above referenced applications and patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Sending and receiving text messages on a mobile communications device requires of the user mental capacity to formulate or process the meaning of the message visual capacity to view the typed or received text and tactile capacity to navigate menus and or type a message. The use of these capacities may be distracting especially when the user is involved with other activities. For example when a user is walking the user may find it difficult to send and receive text messages without being distracted from the activities and other people around him or her.

Audio based messages however require less visual and tactile capacities. A user may leave and listen to voicemails for example without excessive typing and without at all visually assessing a screen.

However under current technology the receiver of the message and the sender of a message effectively must use the same message format. When a sender chooses to send a message in a text format the user will generally receive that message in a text format. To illustrate a user sending a message may choose to telephone the intended recipient. Thus the format of the message is an audio telephone call for both the sender and the receiver. Alternatively the user sending a message may choose to record a voicemail and forward the voicemail to the intended user s voicemail box. Again the message is in an audio format for both the sender and the receiver. Of course the user sending the message may choose to send a text based message such as an e mail or Short Message Service SMS message. Here the format of the message is text for both the sender and the receiver.

The methods devices and systems disclosed herein enable users to send and receive a message in different formats. An audio based message may be sent to a recipient as a text based message and or a text based message may be sent to a recipient as an audio based message.

A device that enables users to send and receive a message in different formats may include a text message gateway an audio message gateway and a processor. The text message gateway may include a Short Message Service SMS gateway. The audio message gateway may include an Interactive Voice Response IVR unit and or a client application interface that receives audio from a client application of a mobile communications device. The processor may be configured to convert text messages received at the text message gateway into audio messages and then to send the audio messages via the audio message gateway. The processor may also be configured to convert audio messages received at the audio message gateway into text messages and then to send the text messages via the text message gateway. The device may be incorporated into a voicemail system such as a visual voicemail system for example.

The global system for mobile communication GSM is one of the most widely used wireless access systems in today s fast growing communication systems. GSM provides circuit switched data services to subscribers such as mobile telephone or computer users for example. General Packet Radio Service GPRS which is an extension to GSM technology introduces packet switching to GSM networks. GPRS uses a packet based wireless communication technology to transfer high and low speed data and signaling in an efficient manner. GPRS optimizes the use of network and radio resources thus enabling the cost effective and efficient use of GSM network resources for packet mode applications. For purposes of explanation various embodiments are described herein in connection with GSM. The references to GSM are not exclusive however as it should be appreciated that embodiments may be implemented in connection with any type of wireless access system such as for example CDMA or the like.

As may be appreciated the example GSM GPRS environment and services described herein can also be extended to 3G services such as Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS Frequency Division Duplexing FDD and Time Division Duplexing TDD High Speed Packet Data Access HSPDA cdma2000 1 Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Code Division Multiple Access 2000 cdma2000 3 Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Wideband. Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT etc. as well as to other network services that shall become available in time. In this regard the techniques of the various embodiments discussed below may be applied independently of the method of data transport and does not depend on any particular network architecture or underlying protocols.

As illustrated the SGSN and the GGSNs and may be part of the internal packet network . Gateway GPRS serving nodes and may provide an interface to external Internet Protocol IP networks such as Public Land. Mobile Network PLMN corporate intranets Fixed End System FES the public Internet and or the like. As illustrated subscriber corporate network may be connected to the GGSN via a firewall and the PLMN may be connected to the GGSN via a border gateway router . A Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server may be used for caller authentication when a user of a mobile cellular device calls corporate network for example.

Generally there may be four cell sizes in a GSM network macro micro Pico and umbrella cells. The coverage area of each cell is different in different environments. Macro cells may be regarded as cells where the base station antenna is installed in a mast or a building above average roof top level. Micro cells may be cells whose antenna height is under average roof top level they are typically used in urban areas. Pico cells may be small cells having a diameter is a few dozen meters they may be mainly used indoors. On the other hand umbrella cells may be used to cover shadowed regions of smaller cells and fill in gaps in coverage between those cells.

A mobile switching center may be connected to a large number of base station controllers. At MSC for example depending on the type of traffic the traffic may be separated such that voice may be sent to Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN through Gateway MSC GMSC and or data may be sent to the SGSN which then sends the data traffic to the GGSN for further forwarding.

When the MSC receives call traffic for example from the BSC it may send a query to a database hosted by the SCP . The SCP may process the request and may issue a response to the MSC so that it may continue call processing as appropriate.

The HLR may be a centralized database for users to register with the GPRS network. The HLR may store static information about the subscribers such as the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI subscribed services and or a key for authenticating the subscriber. The HLR may also store dynamic subscriber information such as the current location of the mobile subscriber. Associated with HLR may be an AuC . The AuC may be a database that contains the algorithms for authenticating subscribers and may include the associated keys for encryption to safeguard the user input for authentication.

In the following depending on context the term mobile subscriber may refer to either the end user or to the actual portable device used by an end user of the mobile cellular service. When a mobile subscriber turns a mobile device the mobile device goes through an attach process by which the mobile device attaches to a SGSN of the GPRS network. Referring now to mobile subscriber may initiate the attach process by turning on the network capabilities of the mobile device. An attach request may be sent by the mobile subscriber to the SGSN . The SGSN may query another SGSN to which the mobile subscriber may have been attached before for the identity of the mobile subscriber . Upon receiving the identity of the mobile subscriber from the other SGSN the SGSN may request more information from the mobile subscriber . This information may be used to authenticate the mobile subscriber to the SGSN by the HLR . Once the mobile subscriber is verified the SGSN may send a location update to the HLR indicating the change of location to a new SGSN in this case the SGSN at . The HLR may notify the old SGSN to which the mobile subscriber was attached to cancel the location process for the mobile subscriber . The HLR may then notify the SGSN that the location update has been performed. At this time the SGSN may sends an Attach Accept message to the mobile subscriber which in turn may send an Attach Complete message to the SGSN .

After the attaching process the mobile subscriber may enter an authentication process. In the authentication process the SGSN may send authentication information to the HLR which may send information back to the SGSN based on the user profile that was part of the user s initial setup. The SGSN may then send a request for authentication and ciphering to the mobile subscriber . The mobile subscriber may use an algorithm to send the user identification ID and or a password to the SGSN . The SGSN may use the same algorithm to compare the result. If a match occurs the SGSN may authenticate the mobile subscriber .

Next the mobile subscriber may establish a user session with the destination network for example the corporate network by going through a Packet Data Protocol PDP activation process. The mobile subscriber may request access to the Access Point Name APN for example UPS.com and the SGSN may receive the activation request from the mobile subscriber . The SGSN may then initiate a Domain Name Service DNS query to learn which GGSN node has access to the UPS.com APN. The DNS query may be sent to the DNS server within the core network which may be provisioned to map to one or more GGSN nodes in the core network . Based on the APN the mapped GGSN may access the requested corporate network . The SGSN may then send to the GGSN a Create Packet Data Protocol PDP Context Request message. The GGSN may send a Create PDP Context Response message to the SGSN which may then send an Activate PDP Context Accept message to the mobile subscriber .

Once activated data packets of the call made by the mobile subscriber may then go through radio access network core network and interconnect network to reach corporate network .

The GSM core network may include a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR a Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC may perform a switching function for the network. The MSC may performs other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC may provide a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . In other words the GMSC may provide interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR may include a database that contains administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. The HLR may contain the current location of each mobile subscriber. The VLR may include a database that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR may contain information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each mobile subscriber currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR . The HLR and the VLR together with MSC may provide call routing and roaming capabilities of the GSM network. The AuC may provide parameters for authentication and or encryption functions. Such parameters may allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR may store security sensitive information about the mobile equipment.

The Short Message Service Center SMSC may allow one to one Short Message Service SMS messages to be sent to from the mobile subscriber . For example the Push Proxy Gateway PPG may be used to push i.e. send without a synchronous request content to mobile subscriber . The PPG may act as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to MS . Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router may be provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP may include a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. It may allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as speech data and short message service SMS the MS may first registers with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. MS may send a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information may then be sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR may be updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update may also be performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update may be periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

GPRS network may be logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN and a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN may be at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN may control the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN may also keep track of individual MS locations security functions and access controls.

The Cell Broadcast Center CBC may communicate cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. A Cell Broadcast may include a one to many geographically focused service. It may enable messages to be communicated to multiple mobile phone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN may provide a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . That is the GGSN may provide interworking functionality with external networks and may set up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN. When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it is transferred to external TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN.

In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services may be used in parallel. The MS may operate in one three classes class A class B and class C. A class A MS may attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. A class A MS may also support simultaneous operation of GPRS services and GSM services. For example class A mobiles may receive GSM voice data SMS calls and GPRS data calls at the same time. The class B MS may attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. However the class B MS may not support simultaneous operation of the GPRS services and GSM services. That is the class B MS may use one of the two services at a given time. A class C MS may attach to one of the GPRS services and GSM services at a time.

The GPRS network may be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM 1 NOM2 and NOM3 . A network operation mode of a GPRS network may be indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages may dictate to a MS where to listen for paging messages and how signal towards the network. The network operation mode may represent the capabilities of the GPRS network. In a NOM1 network a MS may receive pages from a circuit switched domain voice call when engaged in a data call. The MS may suspend the data call or take both simultaneously depending on the ability of the MS. In a NOM2 network a MS may not receive pages from a circuit switched domain when engaged in a data call since the MS is receiving data and is not listening to a paging channel In a NOM3 network a MS may monitor pages for a circuit switched network while received data and vice versa.

IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and includes IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within IMS are a call session control function CSCF media gateway control function MGCF media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database referred to as a home subscriber server HSS . HSS may be common to GSM network GPRS network as well as IP multimedia network .

IP multimedia system is built around the call session control function of which there are three types interrogating CSCF I CSCF proxy CSCF P CSCF and serving CSCF S CSCF . P CSCF may be the MS s first point of contact with IMS . P CSCF forwards session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. P CSCF may also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator for example address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF may be an entrance to a home network may hide the inner topology of the home network from other networks and may provide flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF may contact subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSSs are present. The S CSCF may perform the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. S CSCF may also decide whether application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision may be based on information received from HSS or other sources such as application server . The AS also communicates to location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS .

The HSS may contain a subscriber profile and may keep track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It may also support subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF may provide interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from IMS and ISUP BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown . It also may control the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between AMR and PCM coded voice . The MGW may communicate with other IP multimedia networks .

The Push to Talk over Cellular PoC capable mobile phones may register with the wireless network when the phones are in a predefined area e.g. job site etc. . When the mobile phones leave the area they may register with the network in their new location as being outside the predefined area. This registration however may not indicate the actual physical location of the mobile phones outside the pre defined area.

While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the various embodiments without deviating therefrom. Therefore the embodiments should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

The server may convert text based messages to audio based messages and audio based messages to text based messages for communication between and or among the mobile communication devices A C.

The server may include a processor and a computer readable storage medium . The processor may include any hardware suitable for processing computer logic such a software and or machine code. For example the processor may include an x86 microprocessor or the like. The computer readable storage medium may include any hardware suitable for storing computer logic and or data. The computer readable storage medium may include a volatile memory non volatile memory and or a combination of the two. For example the computer readable storage medium may include Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM magnetic memory such as a Hard Disk Drive HDD flash memory optical memory Storage Access Network SAN and the like. The computer readable storage medium may include removable media such as optical disks portable flash and or hard drives and the like.

The server may include an application module a text to speech engine a speech to text engine a client application interface a voice gateway and or a messaging gateway . The server may include user data . The user data may be stored in the server s computer readable storage medium .

The application module may provide computer logic to coordinate the operation of the server . The application module may include computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor direct the operation of the server . For example the application module may be a software module written in computer code and running on the processor . The application module may implement the algorithms described herein to control the operation of the server . The application module may be stored in the computer readable storage medium . The application module may coordinate the operations of the speech to text engine the text to speech engine the client application interface the voice gateway and or the messaging gateway . The application module may retrieve and or store user data .

The text to speech engine may be software hardware and a combination of the two suitable for converting text information to audible speech information. The text to speech engine may under the direction of the application module receive text information and process the text information to output an audio file or audio stream of the spoken language audio that represents the inputted text information. The text to speech engine may use any technology suitable for converting written text into audible speech such as concatenative synthesis unit selection synthesis diphone synthesis domain specific synthesis formant synthesis articulatory synthesis hidden Markov models based HMM based synthesis sinewave synthesis and or the like.

The speech to text engine may receive as an input spoken audio language. The speech to text engine may convert the spoken audio language into written text. For example the speech to text engine may include a speech recognition module that processes audio that represents human speech and converts that audio into text. The speech to text engine may include any suitable technology for recognizing speech such as dynamic time warping DTW based speech recognition hidden Markov models based HMM based speech recognition and or the like. The speech to text engine may be shared with a visual voicemail system in which voicemails are converted to text for user consumption. The server may be incorporated in to a visual voicemail system to share the speech to text engine as a common resource.

The messaging gateway may be a software module hardware module a combination of the two suitable for exchanging text based messages via various messaging protocols. Having the messaging gateway integrated with the server may allow the flexibility of setting the SMSC address in the user s device to the address of the SMS gateway in server and that server may be a totally integrated unit. For example the messaging gateway may include a Short Message Service SMS gateway. The messaging gateway may include protocol interfaces for other text based messaging protocols such as instant messaging protocols mobile instant messaging protocols e mail messaging and the like. The messaging gateway may provide logic suitable for populating addressing and properly formatting messages according the appropriate text based messaging protocols. The messaging gateway may provide logic suitable for engaging in message transfer acknowledgments etc. associated with the various text based messaging protocols. The messaging gateway may provide an Application Programming Interface API to the other components of the server for handling internal messaging. For example the messaging gateway may define a generic text message and address format for internal use. Thus information according to the generic internal format may be formatted by the messaging gateway into a properly formatted text message and likewise a properly formatted text message being received by the messaging gateway may be converted to a generic message format and passed to any other component of the server .

In an embodiment the messaging gateway may be part of a separate system or server and may interface with the application module of the server by way of a communication protocols. For example the messaging gateway may be part of a separate server distinct from the server and may communicate with the application module over the network via a communications protocol such as Parlay X Web services. The application module may support an application interface to consumes the service e.g. web services the messaging gateway. To illustrate the application module of the server may send and receive text messages to and from the messaging gateway on another server using the ParlayX Short Messaging Web service interface. Thus the messaging gateway e.g. a Parlay X may be implemented in the server in another server such as a voicemail system or as a stand alone entity.

The voice gateway may include software hardware and or a combination of the two suitable for providing Interactive Voice Response IVR unit functionality for the server . The voice gateway may operate at the direction of the application module . For example the voice gateway may receive telephone calls make outgoing calls and while within a call session provide interactive audio prompts and receive audio information. The voice gateway may receive spoken word audio and or dual tone multiple frequency DTMF audio. The voice gateway may provide information inputted by a user to the application module and or to the speech to text engine for processing.

The client application interface may provide an interface to a client application . The client application may be a software program or application on the mobile communications device B. The client application may be stored locally on the mobile communications device B and may provide audio prompts audio recording and audio messaging functionality. The client application may communicate via the network with the client application interface . The client application may provide certain screens and or user interfaces to the user of the mobile communications device B. The client application interface may communicate via a predefined protocol with the client application .

The client application interface and the voice gateway may provide similar high level functionality to a user. Both may receive audio information from the user and both may provide text based messages in an audio format to the user. For example the voice gateway provides the user experience through a telephone call to an IVR unit and the client application interface provides the user experience through a locally installed client application on the mobile communications device B itself.

Referring a user of a mobile communications device A B may wish to send and receive text messages via an audio channel. To illustrate a user of a mobile communications device A B may wish to send a text message to another mobile communications device C by way of an audio channel.

In an embodiment the mobile communications device A may be used to establish a call between the mobile communications device A and the voice gateway of server . This call may be established via a voicemail system in which the user has a voicemail inbox. The user may login into the voicemail inbox and may indicate the desire to send an outgoing text message. Alternatively the user may dial a predefined dial and telephone number to create an audio telephone call between the mobile communications device A and the voice gateway by way of the network .

Once connected to the voice gateway the user of the mobile communications device A may hear one or more audio prompts prompting the user for information such as destination telephone number destination user and or the audio message to be communicated. The user may enter the information via spoken word audio which may be passed to the speech to text engine and or via DTMF tones which may be processed by the voice gateway.

In an embodiment the audio prompts prompting the user for information such as destination telephone number destination user and or the audio message to be communicated may be provided by the client application . The user may enter the information via spoken word audio which may be recorded by the client application and passed to the client application interface to be processed.

Regardless of the user interface the destination may be inputted directly as a spoken or DTMF entered digit telephone number e mail address and or instant message user name for example. The destination may be inputted indirectly via an alias or contact name. For example the client application may consult a user s contact information stored on the mobile communications device B. Alternatively the inputted information may be passed to the application module which may consider user data stored at the server . The user data may include an address book mapping between a name and a destination address for the subscriber. Also for example the user data may include a list of frequently messaged users such that the user of mobile communication device A may be prompted with a selection of the most recently or most often texted users to select as the destination address for this particular message.

The user s spoken message data may be passed via the client application interface and or the voice gateway to the speech to text engine . The speech to text engine may convert the user s audio into text message body. The message body may be passed to the application module which together with the destination information is formatted into a generic text message and passed to the messaging gateway.

The messaging gateway may select an appropriate outgoing protocol for the text message. For example the messaging gateway may select an SMS protocol for the text message. The messaging gateway may create a properly format the text message populating the destination the source and or the message data . The source may be a telephone number of the sending mobile communications device A B. It may be determined from the device itself provided via the user data or from another source within the network . The message data may include the text version of the spoken word audio from the user.

The messaging gateway may send the text message by way of the network to the destination mobile communications device C. Thus the user of the mobile communications device A B may send a text message to another mobile communications device C by way of a spoken word audio channel. As a result the user of the mobile communications device A B may limit and or completely eliminate having to type text messages on the keypad of the mobile communications device A B. Further because the mobile communications device user A B is using an audio channel the user may be able to send text messages while engaged in other activities an advantage that may be particularly enhanced when the user employs a headset.

The messaging protocol described above may be operated in reverse such that incoming text message that is destined for a mobile communications device A B may be processed into an audio format for consumption by the user of the mobile communications device A B. For example the mobile user of communications device C may send a text message destined for mobile communications devices A and or B. The text message may include a destination a source and a message body.

The incoming message may be intercepted by the server on route to the destination mobile communications device A B. For example the network may be configured to reroute a destination address of the mobile communications device A B for text message types such as SMS message types to the server . Alternatively the text message may be received at the mobile communications device A B and then forwarded from the client application for example to the server for processing. The message may be forwarded after it was received by the mobile communications device A B and before it was displayed to the user.

The messaging gateway may receive the incoming message . The messaging gateway may parse the message and convert it to a generic text message. This conversion may include stripping away any protocol level information. The generic text message may be passed to the application module .

The application module may determine how the user wishes to receive audio information and may look up source information in the user data . For example the application module may find names associated with the source address of the text message in an address book data of the user data . Accordingly the application module may pass any textual contact names from the address book along with the actual message body text to the text to speech engine .

The text to speech engine may convert the source name if available and or the source destination address into spoken word audio. The text to speech engine may convert the message body text into spoken word audio. The output of the text to speech engine may include an audio file that may be stored and or passed to the client application interface or the voice gateway to be retrieved or sent to the mobile communications devices A B. Alternatively the text may be queued and converted to speech in real time when requested by the user.

The user may access the audio version of the text message . For example the voice gateway may place an outgoing call to the mobile communications device A and may play out the audio message to the user when the user picks up the telephone. Alternatively the client application interface may send a link to or a copy of an audio file of the spoken text message to the client application of the mobile communications device B.

The server may send an indication the mobile communication device A B via a voicemail system . The audio message may be stored in the users voicemail inbox and retrieved just as voicemail is retrieved.

In an embodiment the audio message may be presented in the context of a chat session in which multiple messages are exchanged between two parties. Each message being converted from audio to text or from text to audio as appropriate. From the perspective of the audio interface user it would appear as a conversation with computer generated audio responses. From the perspective of the text message interface user it would appear as a common text chat session.

In an embodiment the server may be incorporated into a voicemail system such as a visual voicemail system. Audio messages may be presented in the context of a voicemail inbox and users may be given the option to reply forward store and or delete messages. The chat session interface may be provided as an interface within the voicemail system. Delivery and read receipts may also be provided at the user s request.

Regardless how the user receives or retrieves the audio message ultimately the text based message from the mobile communications device C is converted by the server into an audio format and available to the mobile communications device A B as an audio message.

At the audio message may be converted to text. Computer processing may be used to convert the spoken audio message into text. Alternatively the audio message may be sent for human transcription. A combination of computer assisted and human transcription may be used. The audio version body may be converted into a text version body. The audio version destination may be converted to a destination in text form.

At an text message such as an SMS message may be populated for being sent to a destination. The text message may be populated with a destination address as converted in step . The text message may be populated with a body as converted in step . The text message may be populated with a source that corresponds to the source of the received audio in step .

At the source and or destination of the text message may be mapped according to user data stored at the server or accessible to the server. The destination number may be mapped to determine the appropriate destination user and the user properties that define characteristics of the conversion to audio and message delivery. For example the mapping may identify the destination user and determine that the user receives audio messages via a voicemail system.

The source of the received text message also may be mapped according to the user data into a contact name. To illustrate the incoming text message may have the mobile telephone of a user s mother. In the user data there may be an address book entry that maps the mobile telephone number to a contact named Mom. Thus when the text messages is ultimately converted to an audio message rather than or in addition to playing back an audio version of the mobile telephone number the audio message may include the spoken word audio of the contact name Mom. 

At the source number and or source name and the SMS body text may be converted to an audio message. A text to speech synthesis engine may be used to convert the textual data into audio data. The user data may include speech to text preferences such as type and or gender of the output voice audio playback speed etc.

At the audio message may be provided to the user according to the user data preferences. For example the audio message may be sent via a telephone call to the users mobile communications device. Similarly the user data may indicate that the user has a client application stored locally on his mobile communications device that may receive the audio message for playback to the user. Alternatively the audio message may be sent to a voicemail system and included in the user s voicemail inbox.

