---

title: Visible light laser voltage probing on thinned substrates
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to utilizing visible light in conjunction with a thinned structure to enable characterization of operation of one or more features included in an integrated circuit (IC). Short wavelength illumination (e.g., visible light) is applied to thinned samples (e.g., ultra-thinned samples) to achieve a spatial resolution for laser voltage probing (LVP) analysis to be performed on smaller technology node silicon-on-insulator (SOI) and bulk devices. Thinning of a semiconductor material included in the IC (e.g., backside material) can be controlled such that the thinned semiconductor material has sufficient thickness to enable operation of one or more features comprising the IC during LVP investigation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09599667&OS=09599667&RS=09599667
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09599667
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150826
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 043 505 filed on Aug. 29 2014 entitled VISIBLE LIGHT LVP ON ULTRA THINNED SUBSTRATES the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Laser Voltage Probing LVP is an optical tool for failure analysis and real time characterization and or logic debugging of electrical signals propagating at operational speeds through an integrated circuit IC . Conventional LVP systems rely on free carrier index changes and free carrier absorption within semiconductors. Infrared wavelengths are used to take advantage of silicon s relative transparency for backside probing. The incident light is reflected back captured detected and amplified. The small modulations in reflected light intensity resulting from carrier density changes with electric field are utilized to determine local transistor logic states as a function of time.

With the continual reduction of IC feature sizes e.g. a trace a transistor a CMOS transistor a diode a PN junction or other semiconductor component or device that transfers or conveys free carriers or conducting current etc. backside laser based failure analysis tools are limited in spatial resolution by the refraction limits of infrared light and the relatively long wavelengths required for through silicon probing. Even with state of the art solid immersion lenses SILs modern 22 nanometer nm devices are at and past the limit of practical resolution for LVP systems utilizing infrared light.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various technologies presented herein relate to utilizing visible light for laser voltage probing LVP of an integrated circuit IC . To enable visible light to pass through a backside of an IC and be incident upon one or more features included in the IC a substrate of the IC can be thinned to enable probing of the feature s with the visible light via the backside of the IC and further enable reflection of the visible light from a surface of the feature s back through the substrate to a detector. The material forming the backside of the IC e.g. a semiconductor can be thinned to a thickness such that while the feature can be probed by the visible light the IC can remain operational throughout the LVP operation. The thinned material can have a thickness so that the shorter visible wavelengths can pass through the thinned material both in the incident and reflected directions.

Thinning of the semiconductor material can be controlled such that at least a portion of the insulating layer remains to enable operation of the IC during testing. Thinning e.g. die thinning of the semiconductor material can be performed by any suitable material removal technique. In a non exhaustive list such techniques include reactive ion etching processing focused ion beam FIB gas assisted FIB pulse laser assisted etching xenon difluoride XeF etching etc. Fabrication of the IC can be such that an insulating layer e.g. a buried oxide BOX layer has been formed over the one or more features included in the IC.

The semiconductor substrate material can be thinned and or the insulating layer if present or it can be thinned to a thickness of about 2 4 microns m of about 3 4 m s of about 2 m s of about 0.25 m s of about 60 70 nanometers of about 5 nanometers and or a distance of 2 4 times a wavelength of the incident light between an exposed surface of the semiconductor material and a surface of the feature. Further the semiconductor material can be thinned to a minimum thickness at which the IC is still operational and during which the visible light incident light and reflected light can pass through the semiconductor material to enable LVP of the IC.

The visible light can be generated by a laser and have a wavelength of about 650 nanometers nm of about 510 nm of about 475 nm a value in a range of about 400 700 nm or a value in a range of about 633 640 nm.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to utilizing visible light in conjunction with a thinned structure to enable characterization of operation of one or more features included in an integrated circuit IC are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. The terms component and system are also intended to encompass hardware configured to cause certain functionality to be performed where such hardware can include but is not limited to including Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Application specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As previously mentioned as IC devices have reduced in size with an according reduction in feature sizes e.g. a trace a transistor a CMOS transistor a diode a PN junction or other semiconductor component or device that transfers or conveys free carriers or conducting current etc. conventional backside laser based failure analysis tools utilizing longer wavelength light e.g. infrared have become limited in their ability to resolve spatial resolution owing to refraction limits of the light and the relatively long wavelengths required for through silicon probing.

The various embodiments presented herein address the spatial resolution limit when utilizing infrared light wherein one or more embodiments utilize LVP with electromagnetic waves having a shorter wavelength e.g. light waves in the visible wavelength portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. In one or more embodiments thinning e.g. backside thinning backside ultra thinning ultra thinning etc. of a semiconductor material e.g. in a silicon on insulator SOI device is utilized. The semiconductor material of the device is thinned to a sufficient extent such that shorter visible wavelengths can be used for LVP analysis thus enabling improved spatial resolution and enhanced LVP signals when compared to an infrared based LVP system.

The system includes a light source configured to generate and emit light onto an IC device wherein the light has a wavelength in the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. At least one feature is included in the IC device where n is an integer greater than one. As shown the light is incident upon a surface of a respective feature e.g. feature and is reflected from the surface e.g. surface of the feature . The system further comprises a detector which is located to detect capture the reflected light being reflected from the feature . The detector is configured to generate a test signal based upon the reflected light e.g. via electro optical conversion . The system also comprises a processing unit which includes a processor and memory where the memory comprises instructions that are executed by the processor . The processing unit receives the test signal generated by the detector .

The system also comprises a spectrum analyzer and an oscilloscope which are in communication with the processing unit . In an embodiment the processing unit forwards the test signal to the spectrum analyzer and the spectrum analyzer can generate a laser voltage image that shows particular features in the IC based upon a particular criteria. For example a laser voltage image can be presented where only those transistors that are switching at 10 MHz are shown e.g. as a bright region on the laser voltage image and all other regions of the IC undergoing LVP are dark. In another embodiment the processing unit supplies the test signal to the oscilloscope . The oscilloscope can create a waveform using averaging techniques that is indicative of a waveform of an electrical signal passing through the IC during the LVP operation.

In an embodiment the memory includes a base signal . In response to the test signal being received at the processing unit the processing unit is further configured to compare the test signal e.g. as a laser voltage image or as a waveform with the base signal . The base signal can be a signal captured for a known operation of the IC and features . For example the base signal was captured during an LVP operation conducted on an IC having a known structure operation performance etc. wherein comparison of the test signal with the base signal enables operation of the IC and features to be established and any further troubleshooting to be undertaken based thereon e.g. to determine whether any of the features e.g. a transistor is defective. The base signal can also be derived from a design file or other suitable source.

As shown in the IC device can comprise a layer of semiconductor material which in an embodiment the semiconductor material can be silicon based. Depending upon how the IC device has been fabricated the semiconductor material can be processed such that there is a silicon substrate in which an insulating layer has been formed. For example the insulating layer is a buried oxide BOX layer formed between the layer of semiconductor material and the plurality of features . The semiconductor material can be thinned in one or more regions from an original thickness O to a thinned thickness T. As shown the thinned regions can have a width such that a plurality of features e.g. features are able to be exposed to the light or a single feature e.g. feature is able to be exposed to the light .

The thickness T can be a function of a wavelength of the light being utilized to illuminate the device . For example if the light is from the red portion of the visible spectrum e.g. having a wavelength in a range of about 620 750 nm T about 3 4 m s. In another example if the light is from the green portion of the visible spectrum e.g. having a wavelength in a range of about 495 570 nm T about 2 m s. In a further example if the light is from the blue portion of the visible spectrum e.g. having a wavelength in a range of about 450 495 nm T about 5 nm s. Removal of material from the semiconductor can be controlled such that T has a thickness such that it is transparent to the incident light and further the reflected light is able to pass through the thinned semiconductor material such that the reflected light received at the detector has an intensity that it is possible to discern an effect e.g. modulation imparted on the light incident e.g. incident light at the feature as a result of interaction with the feature and an electrical signal passing therethrough. Further while enabling transmission e.g. of the incident light and reflection e.g. of the reflected light of light through the thinned semiconductor material the thickness T of the thinned semiconductor material is sufficient to enable operation of the IC device during respective transmission reflection of the light and . It is possible to thin the semiconductor material to as little as 60 70 nanometers nm and still have sufficient material to enable operation of the IC during testing. Hence the only limit to the thickness of the semiconductor material at regions is there is sufficient semiconductor material for the IC to remain functional during the LVP operation.

The system also comprises a signal source and a clock where the signal source can generate an electrical signal based upon the clock . The electrical signal can be any signal suitable to enable testing of the IC device e.g. the electrical signal can be a clocked signal a square wave a sine wave etc. The electrical signal can be applied to the IC device e.g. to power the one or more features . For example the feature can be a transistor such that as the transistor is being powered by the electrical signal an associated change in the electrical signal and or the transistor resulting from operation of the transistor during application of the electrical signal can affect the intensity waveform etc. of the reflected light as a result of the operation of the transistor affecting the incident light . For example during application of the electrical signal at the transistor optical absorption of generated free carriers and or changes in refractive index due to the presence of free carriers creates a modulation between the incident light and the reflected light . In an embodiment the processing unit can determine a local transistor logic state at the transistor as a function of time based upon the modulations. Thus real time logic debugging of an electrical signal propagating at an operational speed s through the IC can be achieved. The modulation of the incident light by one or more effects engendered at the feature causes the reflected light to have at least one characteristic different to the incident light e.g. the reflected light has a different amplitude waveform magnitude etc. to the incident light .

With reference to the detector any suitable detector can be utilized such as a silicon based detector a photodiode a silicon based photodiode and avalanche photodiode APD photo multiplier tube etc. For example the detector can be an APD wherein the APD can be a high gain low noise APD.

The light source can be any suitable device such as a laser emitting light at a desired wavelength e.g. red light green light blue light etc. wherein the light can be collimated. For example a helium neon HeNe laser operating at 633 nm 5 millwatts mW with approximately 500 microwatts W power on the feature surface . In an embodiment the IC device can be a buffer amplifier on a 350 nm technology operating at with an electrical signal of 3.3 volts V .

The detector can generate the test signal and suitable circuitry not shown can amplify the test signal prior to the processing unit receiving the test signal . In an embodiment the processing unit can utilize a spectrum analyzer to analyze the test signal . In a first embodiment the processing unit can be configured e.g. in conjunction with the spectrum analyzer or any other frequency discriminating device e.g. a lock in amplifier to identify a harmonic e.g. a primary harmonic in the test signal wherein the harmonic can be present as a spectral peak in the test signal resulting for example from the clocking frequency of the clock utilized to generate the electrical signal . The processing unit in conjunction with the spectrum analyzer can be further utilized for imaging of the IC and features e.g. laser voltage imaging LVI with the visible light . During such imaging the spectrum analyzer can be configured with a zero span set at a frequency of the spectral peak as previously identified.

Thinning e.g. die thinning of the semiconductor from an original thickness O to a thinned thickness T to form the thinned regions can be performed by any suitable material removal technique. In a non exhaustive list such techniques include reactive ion etching processing focused ion beam FIB gas assisted FIB pulse laser assisted etching xenon difluoride XeF etching etc. In an embodiment a coarse material removal technique can be initially utilized with a fine material removal technique being applied as a final stage operation to achieve thinning of the semiconductor material to the desired thickness T. In a further embodiment where the semiconductor layer comprises a silicon semiconductor layer and an insulating layer the thinning operation can be configured such that the semiconductor layer is preferentially removed by the thinning operation while the insulating layer is resistant to the thinning operation therein enabling removal of only the semiconductor layer with retention of the insulating layer . In another embodiment the semiconductor layer and a portion of the insulating layer can be removed until a desired thickness of insulating layer remains. A process for removal and thinning of the semiconductor layer can comprise a milling process followed by a pulse laser tool and finally a reactive ion etch to achieve the desired thickness.

The various components and devices included in the system or a portion thereof can be incorporated into a laser scanning microscope. Further the light source can operate in conjunction with operation of the spectrum analyzer and the oscilloscope wherein the light source can be scanned over the feature during generation of a laser voltage image and can be pointed at a particular location e.g. feature and obtain a test signal from the detector when the light source is utilized in a spot manner.

It is to be appreciated that while not shown a plurality of lenses can be utilized with the system . For example while system is illustrated with no lens present in the light path s of incident light and or reflected light e.g. operating with an air gap any suitable lens can be utilized such as an oil immersion lens a solid immersion lens SIL etc. Hence the system can be designed in accordance with a desired resolution D per eqn. 1 

where D is the minimum resolution limit of two points is the wavelength of the light being utilized in the LVP process and NA is the numerical aperture of a microscope objective.

At an electrical signal is applied to the IC and the one or more features located in the IC. The electrical signal can be a clocked signal having a square wave profile. One or more interactions can occur between the light incident upon a feature and the electrical signal passing through it wherein any light reflected from the surface of a feature undergoes modulation based in part upon the one or more interactions.

At the reflected light is captured at a detector wherein the detector is configured to generate a test signal based upon the reflected light e.g. via optoelectronic conversion.

At test signal can be received at a processing unit wherein the processing unit can be configured to compare the test signal with a previously captured base signal. The base signal can be a signal captured for a known operation of the IC and features for example the base signal was captured during an LVP operation conducted on an IC having a known structure operation performance etc. The base signal can also be obtained from a design file or other suitable source. Comparison of the test signal with the base signal enables operation of the IC under test to be established and any further troubleshooting to be undertaken based thereon e.g. determine whether any of the features included in the IC is defective.

At an indication of operation of the IC and included features can be generated wherein the indication can be a visual signal e.g. a light a data packet transmitted to another component which can act upon information contained in the data packet presented on a display e.g. with a defective feature such as a defective transistor identified .

At a thickness of material to remain on an IC after a thinning operation is performed is determined wherein the material can be semiconductor material located on a backside of the IC e.g. bulk silicon . The material to be thinned is located over a feature in the IC e.g. a transistor or across the entire IC and the thickness of the material after thinning is such that a thinned portion of the material allows passage of the visible light through the portion of thinned material to the feature beneath. Further the portion of material is thinned to enable passage of visible light reflected from a surface of a feature to pass through the thinned material and to be captured at a detector. For example the thinned material has a thickness to enable double through or round trip transmission of the visible light through the thinned material. At an original thickness the bulk silicon can absorb refract or reflect such a volume of the visible light during transmission to and reflection from the surface of the feature such that no discernible measure of any interaction s between the visible light incident upon the feature and an electrical signal at the feature can be discerned. However by thinning the portion of material the remaining material has a thickness that is sufficiently transparent to the visible light e.g. incident light and reflected light passing therethrough and further the visible light retains any modulation imparted upon it during interaction with an electrical signal at the feature during an LVP operation.

At the material is thinned to obtain the portion of thinned material having the determined thickness. The thinned material can have a thickness that is less than the determined thickness the thickness can be such that the IC remains operational during the LVP operation. Any suitable process can be utilized to thin the material where such processes include reactive ion etching processing FIB gas assisted FIB pulse laser assisted etching XeFetching etc. Upon completion of the thinning operation the IC can now be examined using the visible light based LVP process.

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device can be utilized to enable characterization of operation of one or more features included in an IC wherein the IC has been thinned to facilitate LVP with visible light. For example computing device can operate as the processing unit . The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store operating parameters required operating parameters and so forth.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions operating parameters required operating parameters etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

