---

title: Secure file transfer systems and methods
abstract: Certain example embodiments relate to file transfer systems and/or methods that enable a single provider to offer to different customers customizable file transfer solutions that are secure, scalable to handle enterprise-level amounts of data, and able to meet customer-specific needs even though such needs are not necessarily known in advance. Once initially set up, the file transfer solution of certain example embodiments delegates management of the customer-specific instances of the solution, optionally in a sub-delegatable manner and, thus, the single provider need not be consulted after specific initial instance deployment time (e.g., for security management and/or other routine maintenance issues).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600675&OS=09600675&RS=09600675
owner: NORTHEASTERN, LLC
number: 09600675
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150811
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 14 187 286 filed Feb. 23 2014 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in this application.

Certain example embodiments relate to file transfer systems and or methods. More particularly certain example embodiments relate to file transfer systems and or methods that enable a single provider to offer to different customers customizable file transfer solutions that are secure scalable to handle enterprise level amounts of data and able to meet customer specific needs even though such needs are not necessarily known in advance. Certain example embodiments employ a delegatable delegation of authority to the customer specific instances of the solution.

More and more people are relying on electronic forms of communication in their day to day lives. It is possible to send letters pictures movies and other sorts of information electronically. Indeed the amount and type of information being transmitted seems to increase almost daily.

There are a number of benefits associated with the transition to electronic forms of communication. For example email SMS and other forms of communications can be exchanged almost instantaneously between people located almost anywhere around the globe. Electronic communications also can have a net positive environmental impact e.g. as more and more individuals and companies strive to go paperless in their homes and or offices.

Large enterprises which may have multiple domestic and or international locations cooperate with other corporations or individuals in different places etc. also can leverage the benefits of electronic communications. Through technological tools business process orchestration and management techniques can help large enterprises achieve new efficiencies.

Unfortunately not all individuals fully trust electronic communications. For example when it comes to delivering financial statements paying bills etc. many people still rely on paper at least to some extent e.g. because of a perceived security risk. Individuals also sometimes wonder about personal privacy even where non financial data is concerned. These perceived issues can complicate and sometimes prevent information exchanges as between individuals and as between an individual and an organization.

The ability to leverage the benefits of information technology on the part of organizations also has in the past met with challenges. For instance large enterprises oftentimes are not able to leverage off the shelf solutions for migrating business practices from traditional paper operations to purely electronic solutions much less to hybrid solutions. In order to arrive at a usable system an enterprise might well have to resort to a custom developed software and or hardware package. The development of such a proprietary solution might require a deep knowledge of the internal business processes types of data to be handled etc. thereby imposing constraints on who can develop such solutions increasing development costs and potentially exposing sensitive organizational and or personal information. As a result proprietary solutions for data transfers typically are not very flexible and typically are not applicable or easily adaptable to meet the needs of other organizations even when those needs at least on a conceptual level are the same or somewhat similar as between the different organizations.

Similar challenges are faced when attempting to integrate or coordinate operations between different providers across different organizations different units in a single large organization etc. Again custom development typically is needed and oftentimes results in a solution that is custom developed in an inflexible and inextensible manner.

Thus it will be appreciated that there is a need in the art for improved file transfer systems and or methods that are secure and that are adaptable for use by different organizations with requirements that are not necessarily known a priori.

Certain example embodiments relate to file transfer systems and or methods that address these and or other issues.

One aspect of certain example embodiments relates to a file transfer solution offered by a single provider that enables different customers to customize their own file transfer solutions that are secure scalable to handle enterprise level amounts of data and able to meet customer specific needs even though such needs are not known in advance.

Another aspect of certain example embodiments relates to delegating management responsibilities of the customer specific instances of the single file transfer solution in an optionally sub delegatable manner. Advantageously the single provider need not be consulted after deployment time e.g. for security management and or other routine maintenance issues.

Another aspect of certain example embodiments enables different enterprises to set up and manage their own secure portals to data with those secure portals being set up for themselves for other enterprises and or for individuals.

Still another aspect of certain example embodiments relates to facilitating two way file transfers in a convenient manner.

Yet another aspect of certain example embodiments relates to facilitating file transfers in which recipient parties do not need to sign up for user accounts but still are able to access the files sent to them.

In certain example embodiments there is provided a secure file transfer system comprising processing resources including at least one processor and a memory and a non transitory data store. The processing resources are configured to receive requests from customers to establish top level accounts with the secure file transfer system in response to received requests allocate portions of the non transitory data store for the customers making the respective requests and create a dedicated portal for each said top level account and facilitate transfers of computer storable assets to and or from users associated with the respective top level accounts through downloads and or uploads of such assets through the respective dedicated portals and using the respective allocated portions of the non transitory data store. All or substantially all desired top level account configuration details including procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets whether client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets are internal and or external to the respective customers and aspects of how the top level account will be managed in terms of user roles are not known to the secure file transfer system prior to being deployed by the top level account customers themselves.

In certain example embodiments a method of operating a secure file transfer system having processing resources including at least one processor and a memory as well as a non transitory data store is provided. Requests are received from customers to establish top level accounts with the secure file transfer system. In response to a received request to establish a top level account a portion of the non transitory data store is allocated for the customer making the respective request and a dedicated portal is created for the respective top level account. Transfers of computer storable assets to and or from users associated with the respective top level accounts through downloads and or uploads of such assets are facilitated through respective dedicated portals and using respective allocated portions of the non transitory data store. All or substantially all desired top level account configuration details including procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets whether client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets are internal and or external to the respective customers and aspects of how the top level account will be managed in terms of user roles are not known to the secure file transfer system prior to being deployed by the top level account customers themselves.

In certain example embodiments there is provided at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium tangibly storing instructions that when performed by processing resources including at least one processor of a secure file transfer system at least process requests received from customers to establish top level accounts with the secure file transfer system in response to a received request to establish a top level account allocate a portion of a non transitory data store of the secure file transfer system for the customer making the respective request and create a dedicated portal for each said top level account and facilitate transfers of computer storable assets to and or from users associated with the respective top level accounts through downloads and or uploads of such assets through the respective dedicated portals and using the respective allocated portions of the non transitory data store. All or substantially all desired top level account configuration details including procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets whether client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets are internal and or external to the respective customers and aspects of how the top level account will be managed in terms of user roles are not known to the secure file transfer system prior to being deployed by the top level account customers themselves.

In certain example embodiments a file transfer system is provided. There are provided processing resources including at least one processor and a non transitory data store. The processing resources are configured to maintain a plurality of file transfer system instances each said file transfer system instance being scalable to accommodate a number of users expected for an enterprise wide operation and an amount of data suitable for an enterprise regardless of how many users actually use and how much data is actually stored to the non transitory data store in connection with the respective file transfer system instance generate new file transfer system instances upon receipt of corresponding verified user requests for each said file transfer system instance provide a sub delegable delegation of authority to exactly one administrator of the respective file transfer system instance that at least enables specification of an approach to be used in sharing data storable to the non transitory data store among and or between users who directly or indirectly use the respective file transfer system instance and for each said file transfer system instance facilitate the sharing of data using the non transitory data store and the respective specified approach to be used in sharing data and in accordance with the respective sub delegable delegation of authority among and or between the users who directly or indirectly use the respective file transfer system instance. For each said file transfer system instance a how the respective approach to be used in sharing data will be specified b whether and how the respective sub delegable delegation of authority will be distributed c the identities of users other than the one administrator who will actually use the respective file transfer system instance and d the amount of data that actually will be stored in connection with the respective file transfer system instance are at least initially not known to the file transfer system and thereafter can be influenced by users in accordance with the respective sub delegable delegation of authority in ways not knowable to the file transfer system in advance. Corresponding methods and or non transitory computer readable storage media may be provided in certain example embodiments.

The features aspects advantages and example embodiments described herein may be combined in any suitable combination sub combination or combination of sub combinations to realize yet further embodiments.

Certain example embodiments relate to file transfer systems and or methods that enable a single provider to offer to different customers customizable file transfer solutions that are secure scalable to handle enterprise level amounts of data and able to meet customer specific needs even though such needs are not necessarily known in advance. Once initially set up the file transfer solution of certain example embodiments delegates management of the customer specific instances of the solution optionally in a sub delegatable manner and thus the solution provider need not be consulted after specific initial instance deployment time. For instances customers may set up and manage their own secure portals to data with those secure portals being set up by themselves for users associated with the customer and or for outside users such as external organizations or enterprises individuals etc. .

Referring now more particularly to the drawings in which like reference numerals indicate like parts throughout the several views is a block diagram of a secure file transfer system interacting with client devices in accordance with an example embodiment. The overall architecture for the secure file transfer system may be based on a cloud based environment such as for example Amazon Linux AMI based EC2 system with backing for the account definitions and or other functionality provided by an appropriate database such as for example an Oracle database a SQL Server database and or the like. Java based technologies may be used for web development e.g. to facilitate online and easily portable applications although different embodiments may use one or more other technology in place of or in addition to Java.

Client devices are able to interact with the system through a variety of different means. For instance as shown in first client device is able to send files to a first company specific portal and receive files from a second company specific portal . Second client device on the other hand is able to send files via third company specific portal and receiving notifications via the email notification module . An Application Programming Interface API interface may enable software applications to interact with the system more seamlessly in certain example embodiments. And as shown in different devices may communicate with multiple different portals in the same or different ways etc.

Communications with the system may be mediated through the portals and the API interface using any suitable protocol such as for example HTTP HTTPS and or the like. Within the system at least one processor may interface with the data store and the access control layer to ensure that communications are properly authenticated etc. in accordance with account definitions .

In this regard web browsers and or the like may be used to access the portals in certain example embodiments e.g. as facilitated by the Java based design noted above and or the web service deployment discussed below. Web browser integration may provide security in accordance with requirements set forth in the account definitions the desired functionality and an easy to navigate design.

As will be described in further detail below an instance of the example system shown in may be deployed for each top level account that is set up regardless of whether the top level account is an enterprise organization individual etc. The instances and or the system as a whole may be designed to automatically scale up and scale down processing and or storage resources dynamically e.g. as demand changes without any manual intervention by the account holder and or without any manual intervention by the system provider. In certain example embodiments the account holder may not even know that the scale up scale down is taking place. In certain example embodiments the account holder may be informed that a scale up is taking place e.g. in the event that further payment is required for use of additional storage and or processing resources. This approach may for example help in storage and processing efficiency while also reducing costs to be borne by the system provider itself.

In certain example embodiments it may be possible to optimize scaling up down for efficiency and storage while also attempting to reduce the amount of comingling e.g. such that client data is as thoroughly separated as possible in some example scenarios . In certain example embodiments EC2 instances may scale up and scale down in number based on actual usage and the storage provisioned may increase with each client added. With today s commercially available hosting offerings it is possible to provide one EC2 instance and 100 GB of storage for one user and two EC2 instances and 1 TB of storage for ten users. It will however be appreciated that different backend cloud providers may change this calculus. In certain example embodiments it may be desirable to favor bucketizing over efficiency e.g. such that users with sensitive information or the like each are provided with their own dedicated instance s .

The data store may for example allow top level accounts to store and transmit up to a predetermined amount of data. The amount of data may be for example up to 10 GB 100 GB 1 TB 5 TB for instance. In certain example embodiments the predetermined amount of data may be based on a price paid by the organization. For example a first threshold may be provided for free or trial accounts a second threshold higher than the first may be provided for accounts at which a first price is paid a third threshold higher than the second may be provided for accounts at which a second price higher than the first is paid etc. Regardless of the total amount of space allocated to a user account an individual file size limit e.g. 1 GB 10 GB etc. may be imposed in certain example embodiments. Although a customer account may have paid for 1 TB of storage if only a partial subset of that storage is being used certain example embodiments need not necessarily immediately allocate storage for the entire 1 TB of storage e.g. so that the system scales on demand.

As alluded to above the storage may be bucketed separately per user account per user and or in some other way in certain example embodiments e.g. to help reduce the incidence of data comingling. This may be facilitated in certain example embodiments by virtue of the cloud based storage system used. However in certain example embodiments the same hardware backing may be used but security controls may be implemented e.g. through the access control layer to help ensure that users cannot access files in different logical buckets. In certain example embodiments data at rest in the data store may be encrypted using any suitable technique. In certain example embodiments a key rotation scheme may be implemented e.g. to help reduce the risk from keys being compromised and to promote forward security.

Admin level users may set access credentials and or controls to be enforced by the access control layer . For instance admin level users may define password rules that will be enforced throughout their entire account e.g. with the aid of the access control layer . Password controls may include for example minimum lengths password reset cycles e.g. specifying whether passwords need to be set and if so the regularity with which they need to be reset and complexity e.g. whether passwords must be of a predetermined length whether they must include a combination or sub combination of at least one letter number special character and or the like etc. .

In this vein the access control layer may be used to help ensure that the client devices only see the data that they are allowed to see once properly authenticated. Such authentication may include for example using multi factor authentication e.g. two factor authentication and providing views to the data provided in the data store for properly authenticated users. Username and password combinations keys biometric indicators and or the like may be transmitted through the appropriate portal and or the API interface as appropriate e.g. in a packet header and passed to the access control layer for this purpose.

Access passwords and the like may be hashed and salted and not stored in plaintext format in certain example embodiments. One time use download passwords e.g. for authenticating initial account signups downloading emailed files etc. may be emailed or otherwise transmitted in plaintext format but not persisted in certain example embodiments. Such one time use passwords may be verified as conforming to a predefined format hashing to a particular known value producing a certain CRC or other checksum etc.

It thus will be appreciated that whether security is enabled the type of the security that is put into place etc. may be set by an admin user of an account. Different controls may be provided for different classes of user e.g. such that some users such as users with admin privileges must authenticate with 2FA or two factor authentication while others who do not have such privileges may use a simple username password combination . In this regard multi factor authentication and or the order thereof may be specified for different user levels throughout an entire account. In certain example embodiments access may be limited by the Admin user to IP blocks e.g. such that only certain IP blocks individual addresses and or the like are whitelisted. In addition or in the alternative certain IP addresses IP blocks and or the like may be blacklisted. Such whitelisting and or blacklisting techniques may be enforced at the portal level and or at the access control layer .

As indicated above an API interface may be provided for the system. The API interface may enable functionality to be embedded within existing end user applications new standalone clients etc. The API interface may for example facilitate web service and or other calls that trigger bundles of executable logic in the system . The API with which the API interface interacts preferably does not does sacrifice security and thus the underlying API may have function calls for authentication along the lines of the above etc.

It will be appreciated that although shows six client devices interacting with specific elements the example techniques described herein are not so limited and may scale to accommodate hundreds or thousands of different users per portal API instance etc. Similarly although three company specific portals are shown the example techniques described herein are not so limited and may scale to accommodate hundreds or thousands of different portals.

As indicated above each account holder may run an instance of the system . The instances may be customized based on the needs of the particular account holder. Several standard account types may be made available for users to match with predefined use cases. Other account types may be partially customized e.g. using a standard account type as a template. Still other account types may be yet more fully customized at the outset. Each account may change through use e.g. as an enterprise adds a supplier replaces contractors grows and adds employees brings new operational units into its instance of the system etc. An advantage of the techniques set forth herein is that authority is delegated from the system super user to an account holder for each account and that account holder may further delegate the authority it is given e.g. so that the account holder itself can manage its instance of the system without the intervention of the super user or overall system provider . Thus an account holder that changes in the above described or other ways or changes the ways in does business and communicates with employees customers partners suppliers etc. can continue to use its same instance over time and without the need for redesign and new development operations undertaken by the overall system provider.

User operations may be tracked in a database in certain example embodiments and Admin users of an account may have read only access to this audit trail and logging functionality. In certain example embodiments no user accounts will be allowed to write to or otherwise change this audit trail data in any way. The type of information that may be tracked may include for example uploads downloads changes in security settings new account creation new account verification etc. In certain example embodiments an admin level user may specify which of these and or other events are to be maintained in the audit trail or log.

A description of four common use cases will now be provided in connection with . Although these use cases are believed to be the most likely used use cases the system may provide these and or other use cases as standard and ready to implement use cases and or as use cases that may be further customized based on a particular need etc. In certain example embodiments the pricing model may allow for unlimited usage unlimited transfer unlimited users charge by storage amount restrictions on the number of clients or vendors or subcontractors as an absolute number or based on the amount of storage paid for and or the like. For instance in certain example embodiments an account holder may allow vendors clients subcontractors and or others to have 100 GB of storage and if that account holder is paying for 1 TB of storage it can have 10 suitable portals made available assuming that the account holder does not want to reserve any space for itself .

Although certain example embodiments thus far have been discussed in terms of sending or transmitting files as will be described in greater detail below this terminology in at least some example instances is shorthand for how files are actually transferred or accessed by end devices. That is in certain example embodiments files may be stored to a portion of the data store and made accessible through a defined portal or the like through a direct download link via direct integration with a software package implementing portions of the API for interacting with the secure file transfer system and in communication with the API interface etc.

Internal users e.g. users who have direct accounts with the secure file transfer system may upload files through a defined portal through the API interface e.g. using a suitably configured program or the like etc. Similarly external users e.g. members of sub accounts who have access to a portal can login through their portal e.g. their sub account portal to upload files that can be picked up by internal users and or other external users.

In certain example embodiments the data store may maintain a logical file structure e.g. creating at least the appearance of folders subfolders and or the like. Uploaded information can be correspondingly organized. Folders and or subfolders may be given different access permissions specifying for example whether uploads downloads objection modifications and or the like are permitted. These permissions may be set by the account s admin user an external admin user and or the like as appropriate for the implementation.

An electronic notification with an optional download link may be sent to the intended recipient to inform the intended recipient that there is a file waiting for pickup. Electronic notifications may inform the intended recipients that files have been sent to or at least made available for them. Electronic notifications may be in the form of email messages text messages pop up or other indications sent through the API interface and or the like and they may be sent to secure file transfer system account holders to non account holders.

For account holders notifications may be processed through email or the like but in some instances may require successful login to a portal to retrieve the data. For email notifications to non account holders notifications may be processed through email or the like but may require passwords and or other controls that are not necessarily processed through a dedicated portal. In other cases a non account holder may be prompted to create an account to access a file.

A sender optionally may specify to whom the file should be sent whether and or how the user should be notified e.g. via email notification API interface notification no dedicated notification at all whether to password protect files whether to apply expiration timing to a download link and or the data itself and if so optionally what the expiration date and or time should be in absolute or relative terms whether to apply a maximum number of times the file can be downloaded and if so optionally what the maximum should be whether and which IP blocks and or addresses the file can be downloaded to and or the like. In certain example embodiments these and or other options may have minimum or forced settings defined by an admin user. In cases where a minimum is set by an admin user further security details may be specified at the time of sending.

These and or other parameters may be defined when data is ready to be sent as default parameters to be used at a predefined time e.g. on a successful upload at a predetermined time interval such as daily weekly monthly etc. and or upon user triggers.

It will be appreciated from the above that notifications may be sent automatically or manually e.g. based on a specific user action . Parameters may be set for example to automatically notify users when files are uploaded when files are uploaded to a specific folder or sub folder at a specific time e.g. for daily status updates monthly invoices quarterly account statements etc. and or the like. It will be appreciated that automatic notifications may be generated in addition to or in place of manual notifications.

An account holder may specify its own preferred contact information e.g. email address phone number to which SMS messages should be sent etc. in certain example implementations. In certain implementations when an account holder sets up a sub account it may provide an initial contact address that may or may not be changed by the sub account holder. In some cases it may be possible for account holders to request digested reported e.g. daily reports weekly reports etc. of uploaded information.

As alluded to above multiple user roles may be defined within the secure file transfer system. In this regard is an organization diagram showing an example hierarchy of user roles that may be used in certain example embodiments. A super admin user role is not connected to any company and instead represents a non customer account for the proprietor of the main file transfer system itself. The super admin user account need not necessarily provide access to customer data. It may however provide access to system wide administration and reporting functionality e.g. to determine system resource utilization as a whole e.g. for health checks of the overall system and or on an account level e.g. for payment purposes potential abuses auditing and or other aspects of potential relevance to the proprietor.

An account owner regular admin role may be created for each customer account and there may be one account owner regular admin account per company in certain example embodiments. The account owner regular admin role may have a paid or trial status which will be described in greater detail below and this status may be inherited by members of its sub hierarchy. In this latter regard an account owner regular admin account may create regular admin users regular users and or external account owner external admin user roles .

One or more regular admin users may be provided for a particular company account. A regular admin user may be able to create the same roles as the account owner regular admin role . However a regular admin user may not undertake certain actions that are reserved for the account owner regular admin role . For instance a regular admin may not be able to delete the account of the company change status from trial to paid or vice versa etc.

Regular user accounts belong may be treated as internal parts of a company s operations but have no administrative privileges. For example a regular user may not be able to add additional users set up external sub accounts change some security parameters e.g. below a specified minimum and or away from a locked option etc. If Company A owns the secure file transfer system account these users probably work for Company A. Regular users may have access to the portals for download and or upload operations e.g. as determined by the regular admin role and or the account owner regular admin role . Different users may have different privileges in these regards and users may be categorized differently in certain example embodiments to facilitate this functionality. Regular user categorizations and the associated privileges may be saved as a part of a company s account information e.g. at the secure file transfer system instance and or may be embedded in different software packages accessible to them.

When a company defines a vendor client contractor subcontractor or other sub account within its main account this action in essence creates a sub account that has its own admin and user hierarchy. An external account owner external admin user owns the sub account and the external account owner external admin user and one or more external admin users may help manage an associated sub account. Both can create external users within the sub account.

In accordance with the explanation of sub accounts provided above an external regular user falls under the external admin user accounts of the sub account user hierarchy. Although there is only one external account owner external admin user there may be multiple external admin users and or multiple external regular users . Restrictions may be placed on the external admin role by the external account owner external admin user and both the external account owner external admin user and the external admin role may place restrictions on the external user role . These rights roles and privileges may be similar to the discussion provided above in connection with the regular or main account. However in certain example embodiments a regular or main account admin or account owner regular admin may provide security settings that affect even sub accounts.

Thus it will be appreciated that certain example embodiments permit an account s admin user s to create and manage regular users of their own accounts and all users of sub accounts while also defining the external admin users that manage the sub accounts. In so doing as alluded to above the admin user s of an account may be able to set security measures for the sub accounts that cannot be overridden by external admin users. These measures may include for example the ability to add external regular users the need for multi factor authentication and or the type of multi factor authentication to be used password rules forced destruction dates timeframes forced download limitations on files sent and or the like.

As indicated above certain accounts may be paid accounts and other accounts may be trial accounts. Certain example embodiments thus may accept credit card payments and if proper authorization is provided by an account holder initiate auto billing and or auto crediting on a monthly or otherwise agreed schedule. Pricing may be based on overall storage used with different tiers paying different amounts. For instance paid accounts may provide up to 100 GB up to 1 TB up to 2 3 TB etc. Defined levels may be set at any number of tiers that are evenly or not evenly incremented. For instance levels may be set at 100 GB 500 GB 1 TB 5 TB and 10 TB levels although it will be appreciated that these are just examples. Alternatively or in addition pricing may be based on the number of client devices needing access to the system including in at least some implementations the number of client devices of any created sub accounts. For example accounts meeting or exceeding a predetermined number of client device connections e.g. 10 30 50 100 etc. may be charged a premium. In certain example embodiments credit card and or other payment information may be maintained for clients. In addition or in the alternative certain clients may be provided with more traditional invoicing e.g. with Net 30 terms where an invoice is sent and the client can wait up to 30 days before making payment by check or the like . This latter approach may be desirable e.g. if the client is large brings in enough revenue etc. Lines may be drawn as appropriate in different example implementations.

Super admin users may be able to change payment terms for customers provided that they agree. As alluded to above pricing may be based on a default base price for each tier of storage and being able to change the payment terms as storage utilization increases may be desirable. In certain example embodiments this may be performed automatically e.g. as the system scales up to accommodate additional data as the system scales up and remains above the next threshold for at least a predefined time period etc. In other cases a super admin user may be automatically notified that a change might need to be made so that the super admin user has the chance to contact the account owner regular admin. It may in certain example embodiments also be desirable to apply temporary discounts for instance by percentage and or by dollar amount e.g. for a user definable number of months or other length of time to credit dollar amounts to their accounts etc.

Example signup processes will now be described in connection with . First is a flowchart showing an illustrative paid account signup method in accordance with an example embodiment. The user begins at a paid signup page in step S. In step S the user selects a pricing tier and or type e.g. based on a range of possible selections having different prices and scopes established by the super admin user as discussed above . In an example embodiment four pricing tiers are made available and the tiers may be priced so as to have different effective amounts if user signs up for a monthly account with no minimum commitment versus a monthly account with a one year subscription with the latter being less expensive on an annualized basis . Both options may trigger automatic monthly billing until the user cancels the subscription.

In step S the user provides account signup information. This may include for example the account owner s name email address company or other organization name company or other identifier job title phone number company URL company size and or the like. It will be appreciated that any unique identifier can be used as an organization s username throughout the site. For example AT T might use ATT the University of Connecticut might use UCONN etc. The user provides payment in step S e.g. via a credit card processed through a centralized clearinghouse or the like . This may trigger a verification to be sent to the user and the user may verify the account in step S e.g. by clicking a link in an email entering a verification code provided with the email and or the like . In certain example embodiments the notification that is sent is similar to the notifications described above e.g. in terms of being sent through the email notification module having a similar look and feel etc. Basic account setup is now completed in step S and the user is considered the account owner regular admin.

A series of example screenshots are provided in and the contents of each will be described in detail below. Those skilled in the art will understand the user interface elements that may be used in these figures as well as how they may be programmed and incorporated into instructions that when executed or interpreted by a processor perform the functions that would be expected. In addition the functionality of these example screens will be understood by those skilled in the art and the following descriptions are provided by way of emphasis. It also will be appreciated that other arrangements of some or all the information provided on these example screens and or other information may be used in different example embodiments.

Saving a file from will trigger an upload e.g. an AJAX upload . This may cause a color coded indication of whether the item upload process was successful e.g. green means a success yellow means in process red means failure etc. . In certain example embodiments a progress bar or the like may be implemented to show the percentage of the upload completed etc. In this regard is an example screen showing a successful upload from the example. As can be seen a description is provided and the file has been uploaded. It is noted that the name of the file may be represented with what is typed in the name field with the filename of the file a UUID a GUID and or other identifying information that might be meaningful to a user. In certain example implementations the filename may be renamed or otherwise aliased e.g. as between different users for ease of reference and or the like .

When the role drop down in is selected the list shown in may be displayed. From that list the new user s role as an internal or external user may be defined. Other status information e.g. whether the person is to be an admin regular user etc. may be provided here or elsewhere.

A description of how files may be sent will now be provided. The control button in is depressed which brings up the example screen. is an example screen that may be used for sending a file in accordance with an example embodiment. enables a user to specify one or more users to which the item is to be sent. In the example this may be done by providing an email address. It will be appreciated that multiple email addresses may be provided e.g. to send the file to multiple users. In certain example embodiments email addresses may be selected from an address book or the like imported from an external listing of email addresses manually entered etc. Although the example has been described in connection with email address distribution it will be appreciated that certain example embodiments may inform users of files being sent to them in other ways such as for example through SMS messages pop up or other notifications in an application implementing at least portions of the secure file transfer system s API by initiating a telephone call etc. Furthermore although the example embodiments involves the sender specifying email addresses the sender may instead designate target recipients in other ways such as for example by specifying a predefined group of users e.g. all regular users all users in a selected sub account a custom grouping of loosely or tightly linked individuals such as nuclear family members etc. by providing file transfer system account names etc. The specification of users in this may send emails and or other notifications in line with the above.

In certain example embodiments the download link may include an argument with a simple counter that points directly to a file. In other example embodiments a more secure argument may be provided e.g. to reduce the likelihood of people easily snooping for valid links etc. . One option in this regard is to use arguments that correspond to entries of a table in a database and identify for example the custom message blob filename and or other relevant file information. Another option that may be used in certain example embodiments is to use a randomized hashed or otherwise difficult to discern key to a table that includes the ultimate storage location. Of course other techniques may be used in different example embodiments.

In certain example embodiments the user need not necessarily have an account with the secure file transfer system to access the file. In certain example embodiments the email message itself may be secured e.g. by being encrypted password protected and or the like . In other cases clicking on the link in may cause the user to navigate to the example secure portal download access screen shown in . The user may be asked to enter a password and or provide other authenticating information to download the item. In other cases if the user is required to open a secure file transfer account to access the file the user may be prompted to complete a new user account signup e form or the like before accessing the file.

It will be appreciated that the same or similar techniques may be used for distributing files to 1 a plurality of different external users e.g. in the case of a company using a software package to send using the API bank account statements and or the like 2 sub account holders such as sub contractors or vendors etc. For instance account signup techniques file download notifications and or the like may be the same as or similar to those set forth herein. With respect to an API implementation a RESTful and or other service may be used to implement features useful for logging in uploading downloading documents performing account maintenance etc. The functionality implemented may be keyed to user accounts and or hierarchical delegations of authority e.g. so that users are able to interact with only an appropriate subset of files take appropriate account related actions etc. In certain example embodiments some or all of the following and or other features may be implemented for all user types 

As indicated above a user may request an item e.g. using the main screen of or . In this regard is an example screen that may be used to send a file request in accordance with an example embodiment. As shown in an account holder can send a message to a party requesting a particular file. The account holder may specify the person s of whom the request is to be made e.g. using the same techniques specified above in connection with specifying person s to whom an item is to be transmitted. In the example a user may further provide a short description of the item requested a more detailed message etc. The user may also specify a location in the user s virtual file structure to which the item should be uploaded if ultimately provided by the requester. It will be appreciated that non account holders may use a similar system to request items such as for example account statements tax documents project status updates etc. e.g. using software that implements at least portions of the API through a website run by an account holder that implements at least portions of the API etc.

It is noted that the uploader need not necessarily be an account holder in certain example embodiments. In those example embodiments where the user must be an account holder a login screen similar to that provided above may be provided and or a user may be prompted to setup a new account. The link provided in the notification may take the user to the appropriate screen e.g. depending on the example embodiment. In certain example embodiments the uploading user may be asked to provide some further authenticating information e.g. to help ensure that the uploader is a person qualified to provide the item requested and not for example a malicious user. The information may be some prearranged password code information shared between the users CAPATCHA code included with the notification etc.

A description of exemplary super user functionality will now be provided e.g. in connection with . First shows a super admin user logging in using the example login screen. Additional authentication requirements may be required for the super admin user as the super admin user has the most privileges and can for example control pricing for all accounts change user privileges set global password requirements etc.

Although there may in certain example embodiments appear to be a navigable folder sub folder structure it will be appreciated that this information need not necessarily be tied to an actual file system running in or on the cloud provider s instances. For instance as will be appreciated from the example schema described above and shown in D E E E F F G and G the virtual file structure of each account may be managed via a database table and or the like. The actual file system running on the cloud may be any suitable distributed or non distributed file system or the like.

A super admin dashboard also may be enabled in certain example embodiments e.g. to provide business analytics etc. A commercial product such as for example Pentaho may be used for these purposes. In addition or in the alternative predefined views may be setup in the database to aid in dashboarding operations. Custom views may be predefined for customer information system information payment information and or the like.

Views relevant to customer information may include for example total customers new customers today new customers this week new customers this month customers lost today customers lost this week customers lost this month and or the like. Views relevant to system information may include for example total storage average storage footprint per customer total paid storage total free storage e.g. storage allocated to trials total actual paid storage total actual free storage current number of cloud provider e.g. EC2 instances running average number of cloud provider instances running per hour over the last 24 hours day week and or the like. Views relevant to payment information may include for example total monthly revenue last month expected revenue this month total costs last month expected costs this month total cost of free accounts last month expected cost of free accounts this month and or the like.

It is noted that during this example process all or substantially all desired top level account configuration details including procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets whether client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets are internal and or external to the respective customers and aspects of how the top level account will be managed in terms of user roles are not known to the secure file transfer system prior to being deployed by the top level account customers themselves. In this vein links in notifications regarding downloads may provide directly or indirectly first paths from which assets are to be downloaded the first paths being paths understandable by a file system supporting the data store whereas links in notifications regarding upload requests may provide directly or indirectly second paths to which assets are to be uploaded the second paths being paths translated from user provided logical paths in customer managed virtual file structures to paths understandable by the file system supporting the data store.

Certain example embodiments have been described as being locked by IP address. That is certain example embodiments have been described in connection with whitelisted IP addresses and or IP address ranges blacklisted IP addresses and or IP address ranges etc. In addition or in the alternative MAC address and or other trackable device and or application identifiers may be used.

Although certain example embodiments have been described as screens dialogs and or the like it will appreciate that any suitable modal or non modal arrangement may be provided e.g. on one or more different views accessible to a user. For instance different layouts may be provided for different device types different browsers etc. e.g. as detected by program logic running locally and or on a secure file transfer system instance.

It will be appreciated that even though certain example embodiments have been described in connection with transferring files folders items and or the like the example techniques set forth herein may accommodate the transference of any asset storable to a computer readable storage medium.

Although certain example embodiments have been described in connection with companies organizations individuals etc. it will be appreciated that the techniques disclosed herein may involve instances for any suitable combination of user types. For instance regardless of whether a particular top level account holder is a global enterprise or an individual with limited needs the instances may be sufficiently flexible and dynamically configurable to scale accordingly to accommodate enterprise level processing storage and or other requirements. This may include for example being sufficiently flexible and dynamically configurable to accommodate complicated virtual file structures and or the like supporting tens or even hundreds of terabytes of data and or beyond in certain example instances with that data for any given instance potentially being accessible by thousands tens of thousands or even millions of users.

It will be appreciated that as used herein the terms system subsystem service engine module programmed logic circuitry and or the like may be implemented as any suitable combination of software hardware firmware and or the like. It also will be appreciated that the storage locations herein may be any suitable combination of disk drive devices memory locations solid state drives CD ROMs DVDs tape backups storage area network SAN systems and or any other appropriate tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium. Cloud and or distributed storage e.g. using file sharing means for instance also may be used in certain example embodiments. It also will be appreciated that the techniques described herein may be accomplished by having at least one processor execute or interpret instructions that may be tangibly stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

In certain example embodiments there is provided a secure file transfer system comprising processing resources including at least one processor and a memory and a non transitory data store. The processing resources are configured to receive requests from customers to establish top level accounts with the secure file transfer system in response to received requests allocate portions of the non transitory data store for the customers making the respective requests and create a dedicated portal for each said top level account and facilitate transfers of computer storable assets to and or from users associated with the respective top level accounts through downloads and or uploads of such assets through the respective dedicated portals and using the respective allocated portions of the non transitory data store. All or substantially all desired top level account configuration details including procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets whether client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets are internal and or external to the respective customers and aspects of how the top level account will be managed in terms of user roles are not known to the secure file transfer system prior to being deployed by the top level account customers themselves.

In certain example embodiments a method of operating a secure file transfer system having processing resources including at least one processor and a memory as well as a non transitory data store is provided. Requests are received from customers to establish top level accounts with the secure file transfer system. In response to a received request to establish a top level account a portion of the non transitory data store is allocated for the customer making the respective request and a dedicated portal is created for the respective top level account. Transfers of computer storable assets to and or from users associated with the respective top level accounts through downloads and or uploads of such assets are facilitated through respective dedicated portals and using respective allocated portions of the non transitory data store. All or substantially all desired top level account configuration details including procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets whether client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets are internal and or external to the respective customers and aspects of how the top level account will be managed in terms of user roles are not known to the secure file transfer system prior to being deployed by the top level account customers themselves.

In certain example embodiments there is provided at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium tangibly storing instructions that when performed by processing resources including at least one processor of a secure file transfer system at least process requests received from customers to establish top level accounts with the secure file transfer system in response to a received request to establish a top level account allocate a portion of a non transitory data store of the secure file transfer system for the customer making the respective request and create a dedicated portal for each said top level account and facilitate transfers of computer storable assets to and or from users associated with the respective top level accounts through downloads and or uploads of such assets through the respective dedicated portals and using the respective allocated portions of the non transitory data store. All or substantially all desired top level account configuration details including procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets whether client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets are internal and or external to the respective customers and aspects of how the top level account will be managed in terms of user roles are not known to the secure file transfer system prior to being deployed by the top level account customers themselves.

In addition to the features of any of the three preceding paragraphs in certain example embodiments there may be provided for each said top level account a a definition of one or more user roles and accompanying privileges relative to the secure file transfer system for each said user role and b a mapping between a user associated with the top level account and a defined user role. Apart from a top level account owner user role all other user roles and accompanying privileges may be customer definable and mappable to users by the customer.

In addition to the features of the preceding paragraph in certain example embodiments user roles may be definable by the customers for parties external to the respective customers. In some instances plural user roles may be defined for parties external to the respective customers with the plural user roles being hierarchical.

In addition to the features of any of the five preceding paragraphs in certain example embodiments hierarchically arranged user roles may be assignable to each user of each said top level account with exactly one top level account owner user role being defined for each said top level account and being the highest level in the hierarchy for the respective top level account. Other than the top level account owner user roles customers may be free to assign user roles to their users.

In addition to the features of any of the five preceding paragraphs in certain example embodiments each said top level account may be scalable to accommodate enterprise levels of data throughput and storage as well as enterprise levels of user numbers. For instance in certain example embodiments each said top level account may be scalable to accommodate enterprise levels of data throughput and storage as well as enterprise levels of user numbers even though a need for corresponding scalability is not necessarily known to the secure file transfer system prior to being triggered by actual usage of the secure file transfer system. In this regard the secure file transfer system in certain example embodiments may be configured to dynamically adjust on an individual top level account basis processing resource and or storage space utilization based on a measure of actual or expected need. However in some example instances upward adjustments in processing resource and or storage space utilization for each said top level account may be capped based on tiers to which the respective customers belong.

In addition to the features of any of the six preceding paragraphs in certain example embodiments each said top level account may support a virtual file structure into which its computer storable assets are storable. However according to certain example embodiments a file system associated with the data store may be unrelated to virtual file structures except that a the assets of any given top level account may be preferentially grouped together on one or more common nodes by the secure file transfer system and or the file system and b the assets may be bucketized for different accounts.

In addition to the features of any of the seven preceding paragraphs in certain example embodiments procedural approaches to be used in transferring computer storable assets may indicate whether each said customer anticipates transferring assets with a one or more other customers b one or more users who are not customers but have one or more respective portals set up for them by the respective customer c one or more users who are not customers and do not have any portals set up for them and or d one or more users using an API that communicates with the secure file transfer system. According to certain example embodiments at least some client devices involved in transferences of computer storable assets may be external to the respective customers and may have sub accounts created by those customers wishing to exchange files with them.

In addition to the features of any of the eight preceding paragraphs in certain example embodiments an email notification module may be configured to send email notifications to users letting them know that assets are ready to be downloaded and or requesting that assets be uploaded.

In addition to the features of the preceding paragraph in certain example embodiments email notifications may include links to portals facilitating the downloading and or uploading of assets.

In addition to the features of the preceding paragraph in certain example embodiments the links may provide directly or indirectly information regarding authentication requirements that must be satisfied before assets can be downloaded and or uploaded.

In addition to the features of either of the two preceding paragraphs in certain example embodiments the links may provide directly or indirectly a path from which an asset is to be downloaded and or to which an asset it to be uploaded.

In addition to the features of the preceding paragraph in certain example embodiments the path may be a path from which an asset is to be downloaded and is understandable by a file system supporting the data store and or the path may be a path to which an asset it to be uploaded and is translated from a user provided logical path in a virtual file structure to a more concrete path understandable by a file system supporting the data store.

In certain example embodiments a file transfer system is provided. There are provided processing resources including at least one processor and a non transitory data store. The processing resources are configured to maintain a plurality of file transfer system instances each said file transfer system instance being scalable to accommodate a number of users expected for an enterprise wide operation and an amount of data suitable for an enterprise regardless of how many users actually use and how much data is actually stored to the non transitory data store in connection with the respective file transfer system instance generate new file transfer system instances upon receipt of corresponding verified user requests for each said file transfer system instance provide a sub delegable delegation of authority to exactly one administrator of the respective file transfer system instance that at least enables specification of an approach to be used in sharing data storable to the non transitory data store among and or between users who directly or indirectly use the respective file transfer system instance and for each said file transfer system instance facilitate the sharing of data using the non transitory data store and the respective specified approach to be used in sharing data and in accordance with the respective sub delegable delegation of authority among and or between the users who directly or indirectly use the respective file transfer system instance. For each said file transfer system instance a how the respective approach to be used in sharing data will be specified b whether and how the respective sub delegable delegation of authority will be distributed c the identities of users other than the one administrator who will actually use the respective file transfer system instance and d the amount of data that actually will be stored in connection with the respective file transfer system instance are at least initially not known to the file transfer system and thereafter can be influenced by users in accordance with the respective sub delegable delegation of authority in ways not knowable to the file transfer system in advance. Corresponding methods and or non transitory computer readable storage media may be provided in certain example embodiments. In certain example embodiments the features of any of the 11 preceding paragraphs may be used in connection with this example arrangement.

While the invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiment but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

