---

title: High frequency transmitter
abstract: A radio transmitter having a RF signal source. A splitter receives an input signal from the signal source and divides that input signal into two output signals. These output signals are fed into two phase shifters. A phase control signal is applied to each phase shifter so that the vector sum of the output signals represents the desired amplitude and phase of the desired transmitted signal. The outputs of both phase shifters are both frequency multiplied and amplified before recombining to form the transmitter output signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584169&OS=09584169&RS=09584169
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09584169
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151215
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates generally to high frequency transmitters and more particularly to a method and apparatus for modulating the transmission signal utilizing phase shifters.

For electromagnetic radiation the length of an antenna radiator is inversely proportional to the frequency of the electromagnetic transmission. Consequently it is very difficult to transmit low frequency signals such as voice or video as electromagnetic waves at their original frequencies. In order to do so would render the necessary antenna radiators unacceptably long.

Consequently in communication radio a low frequency signal also known as a baseband signal is typically upconverted in frequency to the carrier frequency. For example in AM radio voice signals having a bandwidth of about 5 kilohertz are typically upconverted to 531 1611 kilohertz for commercial medium wave AM radio or to 2.5 26.1 megahertz for shortwave AM radio. By upconverting the low frequency of the voice signal transmission of the radio signal can be accomplished with a practical sized antenna.

The process of upconversion is done through the use of a mixer which mixes a desired baseband signal known as the IF or intermediate frequency signal with a high frequency signal known as the LO local oscillator signal. The mixer however does not simply add the LO and IF signals together. Instead the output from the mixer contains both the sum and the difference of the LO and IF frequencies as well as the LO signal. For example assuming an LO signal of 10 megahertz and an IF signal of 5 kilohertz the output from the mixer would contain not only the LO signal of 10 megahertz but also two sideband signals that are modulated by the IF frequency. These signals would be centered at 9.995 megahertz and at 10.005 megahertz.

Although it is possible to amplify both the LO signal and both sideband signals for transmission from the appropriate antenna to do so is very power inefficient. This power inefficiency arises since each sideband signal contains the same modulation information and the LO signal contains no useful information at all. Consequently in order to increase the power efficiency of the transmitter it is necessary to remove one of the sideband signals as well as the LO signal prior to amplification and transmission. However this requires very narrow band filters to filter out the undesired signal. The remaining signal is then amplified and transmitted. Such filters however add distortion to the output signal.

While the previously known practice of using upconversion optionally followed by filtering of the upconverted signal has proven effective for relatively low frequency radio transmitters i.e. radio transmitters transmitting at a frequency of less than 10 gigahertz such radio communications transmitters have proven impractical for high frequency radio transmitters i.e. radio transmitters in the range of 0.1 to 10 terahertz for a number of different reasons.

First solid state frequency sources at such high frequencies i.e. greater than 100 gigahertz are necessarily low powered typically generating 1 watt or less in power. Furthermore for low distortion the LO signal power must be at least 10 times the power of the IF signal desired to be upconverted and ultimately transmitted. Consequently with an LO signal source having a 1 watt output and used as a carrier wave input to the radio mixer the input from the RF signal to be modulated cannot be greater than 0.1 watt. Otherwise excessive distortion of the modulated sideband signal would occur.

In order to improve the overall power efficiency of the transmitter the carrier signal and one sideband should be removed from the output signal from the RF mixer. However to do so requires a very narrow band filter. Such narrow band filters particularly at high frequencies are not only lossy but do not provide flat group delay. Such narrow band filters also distort the signal and this distortion becomes worse as the filter bandwidth becomes narrower. All these factors thus result in distortion of the signal desired for transmission as well as a very low output power for the modulated signal. This in turn requires excessive amplification in order to reach an acceptable power level e.g. a few watts for practical applications.

For all the foregoing reasons the use of RF mixers which mix IF sources with the LO mixer input even when followed by frequency multipliers which also add distortion results in excessive distortion and power loss for the RF signal.

The present invention provides a high frequency transmitter that overcomes most of the above mentioned disadvantages of the previously known transmitters.

In brief in the radio transmitter of the present invention a radio frequency signal source named RF in e.g. 10 gigahertz at 21 watts is first connected as an input signal to a power splitter. The power splitter divides the source signal into two in phase 10 gigahertz signals which are almost equal. The power splitter necessarily introduces a small loss into the signal so that assuming the source signal has a power of 21 watts the power outputs from the power splitter may be about 10 watts each and will be referred to as RF in1 and RF in2.

The two outputs from the power splitter RF in1 and RF in2 are inserted as input signals to two phase shifters. Each phase shifter has two inputs and one output. The two inputs are a high frequency signal e.g. RF in1 and a lower frequency baseband phase control signal. The phase shifter output is a high frequency signal which is phase shifted. The phase control signals are selected such that the vector sum of the two output signals has the desired amplitude and phase shift.

Unlike mixers phase shifters introduce little power degradation or distortion into the signal. Consequently the output from each phase shifter having a 10 watt input would be 90 of the power of the input signal or about 9 watts.

The outputs from the phase shifters are then frequency multiplied to the desired transmission frequency i.e. at high frequency between 0.1 and 10 terahertz and each of those signals is then amplified. The amplified signals are then combined together by a power combiner to produce the output signal for the transmitter.

With reference first to a block diagrammatic view illustrating a preferred embodiment radio frequency transmitter is shown. The transmitter is used in conjunction with a receiver also illustrated in . The receiver may be any conventional RF receiving device.

The transmitted 10 may be configured as high frequency transmitter in some embodiments. As used herein the term high frequency transmitter shall mean a radio frequency transmitter transmitting at a frequency range in excess of 10 gigahertz and typically in the range of 0.1 terahertz to 10 terahertz. The use of high frequency provides many benefits over lower frequency communications. First due to high frequency the transmitted signal propagates in laser like beams. Hence communications can be very secure. Additionally the high frequency opens the door to very broadband tens of gigabits per second communications. Additionally a number of chemical and bio agents have resonances at high frequency. Being able to construct complex waveforms at high frequency will aid in the detection and sensing of such agents.

The transmitter includes an RF signal source which produces a signal on its output at point A at a fixed frequency e.g. 10 gigahertz. Ten gigahertz signal sources are currently commercially available with an output power greater than 20 watts.

The output from the signal source is inserted into an input of a power splitter . In the art a power splitter may also be commonly referred to as a signal divider. The power splitter divides the signal from the signal source received at its input into two essentially equal outputs and . Such power splitters for 10 gigahertz signals are commercially available with little insertion loss. For example assuming that the power output from the signal source is 21 watts the power splitter will only degrade that signal by about 1 watt thus producing two 10 watt and 10 gigahertz signals on the outputs and . Furthermore these signals are in phase with each other.

The first output from the power splitter is coupled as an input signal to a first phase shifter . Similarly the output from the power splitter is coupled as an input signal to a second phase shifter . The phase shifters and each receive a phase control signal and respectively which modulate the phase at the outputs and of the phase shifters and .

The phase control signals to the phase shifters on control inputs and represent two different components of an overall modulation signal.

Consequently the modulation or phase control signal on input line to the first phase shifter correlates with the first phase shift of vector while similarly phase control signal on input line to the second phase shifter correlates with the second phase shift of vector .

A primary advantage of utilizing phase shifters and to effectively modulate the signal is that such phase shifters create very little degradation of the signals as compared to the previously used RF mixers. For example in a typical phase shifter and at a frequency of 10 gigahertz only about 10 power loss would occur as the signal passes through the phase shifters and .

Referring again to the signal on the outputs and of the phase shifters and are respectively inserted as input signals into frequency multipliers and . The frequency multipliers and multiply the frequency of the source to a high frequency range i.e. in excess of 100 gigahertz. The frequency multiplication of 24 shown in the drawing is by way of example only. For instance in the phase shifters and were introduced after the power splitter and before the 24 frequency multipliers . However the order of phase shifting and frequency multiplication can be changed. For example one may perform the 24 frequency multiplication and then the phase shifting. Additionally one may perform part 2 frequency multiplication carry out the phase shifting and then perform 12 frequency multiplication such that the total multiplication is the same 24. The point is that the phase shifting can be carried out before the frequency multiplication during the frequency multiplication or after the frequency multiplication. The key aspect is that the vector sum of the two or more branches branches adds up to the desired signal at point B to be transmitted.

Power is then boosted by a pair of power amplifiers and which are then combined by a power combiner to provide the high frequency modulated signal at an output signal from the power combiner . The power amplifiers may be optional in some embodiments. Each amplifier receives a gain control signal and respectively which controls the gains at the outputs of the amplifiers .

In some implementations the output signals of the amplifiers may be amplitude controlled by using a variable amplifier as shown in or an attenuator not shown in in order to ensure that they have essentially equal amplitude at the input of the power combiner if desired. In the 24 frequency multiplication is followed by an optional amplifiers . The amplifiers variable gain amplifiers as shown . Fixed gain amplifiers could be used with or without attenuator elements to provide any desirable gain for the signals. However it should be apparent that one may do partial multiplication followed by amplification or vice versa . For example instead of the 24 frequency multiplication in we may perform 2 frequency multiplication say amplify the signal using an amplifier and then perform 12 frequency multiplication followed by more amplification. We can also do perform 3 frequency multiplication say amplify the signal using an amplifier and then perform 8 frequency multiplication.

The two phase modulated signals a4 and b4 are combined by the power combiner to form output signal prior to transmission by the transmitter . The output signal is broadcast by antenna means not shown and passes through a channel which could be air or other medium before being received by the receiver . shows a simple receiver where the received signal at 240 GHz in this case at point C is mixed using a passive or active mixer with a 238 GHz say local oscillator signal at point E to produce a 2 GHz the difference between the received signal frequency and the local oscillator frequency as the intermediate frequency at point D . However many other types of receiver architectures are available such as zero intermediate frequency receiver and may be used as alternate receivers.

Analog output signals can correspond to any arbitrary amplitude or gain as would be suitable for such communications. For digital communications the output signals a4 b4 may correspond to predetermined symbols or points which correspond to know values. These may be QAM symbols. In one embodiment the look up table may provide amplitude and phase values for all 16 QAM symbols or other digital schemed . For some RF applications such as FM frequency modulation the amplitude S might not be significant. Likewise for some applications such as AM amplitude modulation the phase might not be significant.

In general any suitable electronic processor or microprocessor can be configured and used for calculating vectors v1 and v2 according to the methodologies discussed below for controller . The phase control signals and correspond to and respectively. And the gain control signals and correspond to v1 and v2 respectively. The controller can be physically located in the transmitter or provided remote thereto.

The digital modulation signals employed by embodiments of the present invention may be based on a Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM schemes. While a 16 QAM scheme is primarily discussed herein it will be appreciated that other QAM schemes may also be used e.g. 64 QAM and 256 QAM . For example and with reference to assume the data of interest to be transmitted is a digital signal made of up a series of 16 QAM data symbols or points arranged on an IQ phase constellation plane. A digital value from 0 hexadecimal F hexadecimal is assigned to each of the data points . The data points are in addition symmetrically arranged on the IQ plane and the digital value of each point is predetermined.

In the 16 QAM digital modulation scheme the signal may assume only one of 16 possible states. Each state is represented by one of the data points each having a unique Q component and a unique I component. Q and I are modulating signals. Any of the 16 data points called a symbol and denoted by S with amplitude S and phase may be identified as the sum of two equal amplitude vectors and having phases and corresponding to the angles of the vectors and respectively.

In the power splitter divides the power equally into two signals a1 and b1. After traveling through the various elements i.e. the phase shifters and the multipliers and the amplifiers and signal a1 ultimately becomes a4 and signal b1 ultimately becomes b4.

The phase of v1 will be determined by phase shifter and the phase of b4 will be set by phase shifter . When signals a4 and b4 are combined using power combiner the resulting signal S at point B will be equal v1 

For simplicity we will first assume that v1 v2 . In this case the maximum amplitude for S will be 2 v1 and the minimum amplitude for S will be zero which gives us a lot of flexibility . And the process for determining v1 and is as follows 

Suppose we would like to transmit a signal S with amplitude S and phase and suppose that the maximum amplitude for vector v1 or v2 is v1 and the maximum amplitude of S is S . If S 2 v1 then it is not likely possible achieve a signal with this amplitude. If S 2 v1 then v1 and are calculated as follows square root over tan 1 2 2 where cos .

The phases and may be set to the above values using phase shifters and respectively according to phase control signals and . The amplitudes v1 and v2 are determined by the choice of gain components e.g. amplifier and attenuator .

Suppose we would like to transmit symbol a 16QAM signal and suppose the maximum I amplitude and Q amplitude is 3. The maximum amplitude for 16QAM signals occurs at symbols 0000 1000 0010 and 1010 see . Then for symbol 1000 which is defined as I 3 and Q 3 we have square root over square root over 3 3 3 square root over 2 4.24. tan tan 3 3 45 4.24

Suppose that we want to transmit symbol 0001 which is defined as I 3 and Q 1. This is shown in . Then we have square root over square root over 3 1 3 square root over 2 3.16 tan tan 1 3 161.57 3.16

For the case where the vectors and a4 and b4 have unequal amplitudes v1 v2 we can still add them to construct a transmit vector S with amplitude S and phase by observing that cos sin 1 1 

The case of v1 v2 relaxes the condition of adjusting the amplifier gain or attenuator loss in each signal path in order to insure equal v1 and v2 . Of course the drawback is that the minimum S signal amplitude v1 v2 is not equal to zero some analog and digital modulations require the minimum signal amplitude to be zero.

It should be noted that under this condition v1 v2 the maximum possible value for S v1 v2 . The minimum amplitude for S that is S v1 v2 .

In the above examples and discussion two vectors v1 and v2 for the two output signals a4 and b4 were added to form a signal S. However it should be appreciated that one can add three or more vectors in a similarly manner such that a desired signal S is formed by the summed vectors at the output of the transmitter. Having three vectors say instead of two gives us greater degrees of freedom and flexibility. For example we can have two vectors v1 and v2 as the main vectors forming the desired signal while having a third vector v3 as an distortion correction vector to modify S slightly and bring it closer to the perfect magnitude and phase.

Assuming that the preferred transmission frequency is 240 GHz and the starting frequency is 10 GHz a 24 frequency multiplication would be used. However it should be appreciated that if the starting frequency is 240 GHz because there is no need for frequency multiplication. In this case the transmitter could be composed of only a pair of phase shifters positioned between the power splitter and the power combiner .

If the starting frequency was 480 GHz then a 2 frequency divider can be used to reach 240 GHz. Additionally if the starting frequency was 120 GHz then a factor of 2 multiplication would have been used. Furthermore any modulation type other than 16QAM can be used because the method presented allows for construction of any amplitude and phase.

The interest in 240 GHz frequency stems from the fact that the atmospheric attenuation at this range is lower than surrounding frequencies. Frequency multipliers significantly degrade the power of the signal at the outputs and of the frequency multipliers and respectively. However even with a 95 signal power degradation the power of the output signal from the frequency multipliers and will still equal about a half a watt for the example shown.

As can be seen from the foregoing the present invention provides a high frequency transmitter which is able to transmit at relatively high power. Furthermore since the modulation of the signal by the phase shifters and creates little degradation in the power of the signal a relatively high power output signal at the output for the transmitter may be obtained. Furthermore the amplitude at the input of the phase shifters frequency multipliers and power amplifiers are all substantially constant and frequency multipliers and power amplifiers may be operated in highly saturated mode to obtain maximum output power. The saturated mode is highly efficient and also highly nonlinear. However since the amplitude is essentially constant at the input of the amplifier and the frequency multiplier there will be no nonlinear distortions unlike the previously known RF mixers. The amplitude variation of the signal happens only once the vector sum is generated at the output power combiner or at the receiver in the case where the two signals are radiated directly .

Similarly since it is unnecessary to remove unwanted sideband signals and carrier signals by narrow filters the present invention further eliminates most of the nonlinear distortions introduced by such narrow band filters.

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides a unique and effective high frequency transmitter capable of accurately and linearly modulating the output signal. Having described our invention however many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

