---

title: Electronic device and method of linking a task thereof
abstract: A method of linking a task of an electronic device and the electronic device are provided. The method includes determining whether generation of an event satisfying a predetermined condition is detected; selecting another electronic device that is linkable to the electronic device when the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected; and generating task environment information of an application and transmitting the task environment information to the other selected electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09606957&OS=09606957&RS=09606957
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09606957
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150309
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0050544 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Apr. 28 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to linking tasks between electronic devices and more particularly to a method and an electronic device for linking a task that has been executed by electronic device with another electronic device.

Recently due to developments in communication technology applications capable of performing various functions have been used in electronic devices including for example portable terminals such as a Personal Computers PCs smart phones and home appliances such as a smart TeleVisions TVs .

Sometimes an application executed in an electronic device may be linked to another device to execute the same application in the other device. Recently a task synchronization technique using a cloud server and a cloud address has been widely used. When a user uploads executed contents to a cloud server the executed contents can be synchronized in various electronic devices through a corresponding address. Thus a user can successively perform a task in various electronic devices.

When specific resources of an electronic device are limited e.g. a limited amount of remaining battery power it may be difficult to execute a task with a corresponding electronic device. Sometimes a task executed in a portable electronic device is set to be linked to an electronic device e.g. a personal computer to execute the task in the electronic device. Typically an application must be executed in another electronic device to start a new task. Alternatively a user must upload corresponding task contents to a cloud server and the task must be synchronized to another electronic device through a corresponding address.

Thus when a user can not recognize a resource shortage state or when a user can not take proper measures to address a recognized resource shortage state it may be difficult for the user to successively perform a task.

The present invention has been made to address the above problems and disadvantages occurring in the prior art and to provide at least the advantages set forth below.

Accordingly an aspect of the present invention provides a method of linking a task and an electronic device thereof.

According to an aspect of the present invention a method of linking a task of an electronic device is provided. The method includes determining whether generation of an event satisfying a predetermined condition is detected selecting another electronic device that is linkable to the electronic device when the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected and generating task environment information of an application and transmitting the task environment information to the other selected electronic device.

According to another aspect of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a task link control module that determines whether generation of an event satisfying a predetermined condition is detected selects another electronic device that is linkable to the electronic device through a communication interface when the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected and generates task environment information of an application and transmits the task environment information to the other selected electronic device through the communication interface and the communication interface that performs communication with the another electronic device.

According to another aspect of the present invention a non transitory computer readable recording having recorded thereon a program for executing a method for linking a task of an electronic device is provided. The method includes determining whether generation of an event satisfying a predetermined condition is detected selecting another electronic device that is linkable to the electronic device when the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected and generating task environment information of an application and transmitting the task environment information to the other selected electronic device.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings the same or similar elements are denoted by the same reference numerals even though they are depicted in different drawings. In the following description a detailed description of known functions and configurations incorporated herein will be omitted when it may make the subject matter of the present invention less clear for the sake of clarity and conciseness.

While expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second as used herein may modify various constituent elements such constituent elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding constituent elements. The above expressions may be used merely for the purpose of distinguishing a constituent element from other constituent elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both are user devices. For example a first constituent element may be termed a second constituent element and likewise a second constituent element may also be termed a first constituent element without departing from the scope of embodiments of the present invention.

When a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to any other component the component may be directly connected or accessed to the other component but another new component may also be interposed between them. By contrast when a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to any other component there is no new component between the component and the other component.

The terms as used herein with respect to various embodiments of the present invention are merely for the purpose of describing particular embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of embodiments of the present invention. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical terms and scientific terms have the same meaning as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined herein.

An electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical appliance a camera and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory electronic tattoos or a smartwatch .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as the electronic device for example may include at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HOMESYNC APPLE TV or GOOGLE TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic photo frame.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the electronic devices may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT and ultrasonic machines navigation equipment a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM of a banking system and a Point Of Sales POS in a shop.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter and a radio wave meter . The electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Further the electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention may be a flexible device. Further the electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention is described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Herein the term a user may refer to any person who uses an electronic device or any other device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a task link control module .

The bus includes a circuit interconnecting the aforementioned components and transmitting communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned components.

The processor for example receives instructions from the aforementioned components e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the task link control module other than the processor through the bus decodes the received instructions and performs operations or data processing according to the decoded instructions.

The memory stores instructions or data received from or generated by the processor or other components e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface and the task link control module . The memory includes programming modules for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and applications . Each of the programming modules as described above may be formed by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor and the memory used to execute operations or functions implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API and the applications . Further the kernel provides an interface that allows the middleware the API or the applications to access and control or manage individual components of the electronic device .

The middleware serves to mediate between the API or the applications and the kernel that is allow the API or the application to communicate and exchange data with the kernel . Further the middleware performs control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for task requests received from the applications by using for example a method of assigning a priority for use of the system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface for allowing the applications to control functions provided by the kernel and the middleware and includes not shown at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for for example file control window control image processing or text control.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the applications may include not shown a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring the amount of exercise or blood glucose and an environmental information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure information humidity information temperature information etc. . Additionally or alternatively the applications may also include an application associated with information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . The application associated with information exchange for example may include a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring notification information generated in another application of the electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environmental information application to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application for example may receive notification information from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application for example may manage e.g. install remove or update a function for at least a part of an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device communicating with the electronic device e.g. a function of turning on off an external electronic device itself or some components thereof or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display an application running on the external electronic device or a service provided in the external electronic device e.g. a calling or messaging service .

According to various embodiments of the present invention the applications may include not shown an application specified according to the attribute e.g. type of an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the applications may include an application associated with music playback. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the applications may include an application associated with health care. According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include at least one of an application assigned to the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device e.g. the server or the electronic device .

The input output interface for example transfers instructions or data input from a user through an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the task link control module through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide the processor with data corresponding to a user s touch input through a touch screen. Further the input output interface receives instructions or data from the processor the memory the communication interface or the task link control module through the bus and outputs the received instructions or data through the input output device e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface outputs voice data processed by the processor to a user through a speaker.

The communication interface establishes communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface is connected to the network through wireless or wired communication and thereby communicates with the external device. The wireless communication for example may include at least one of Wireless Fidelity WiFi BlueTooth BT Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile communications GSM . The wired communication for example may include at least one of a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and P plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present invention a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the applications the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

The task link control module transmits a task which is being executed in the electronic device to another electronic device e.g. an electronic device when a predetermined condition is satisfied. The predetermined condition may be for example at least one of an initial setting a reception of an input by a user and a determination of a resource shortage state. The resources refer to resources of a hardware device or a hardware function in the electronic device and a state of the resources refers to a state of the hardware device a performance of the hardware function etc. For example the state of the resources may include a battery state a data agreement use amount a telephone signal strength a network connection state a remaining memory capacity a processor speed a state of a voice signal output device a state of a screen size and a state of a usable auxiliary device. A resources shortage state is a state in which the resources are not sufficient to executing a task and a standard thereof may be set by an initial setting or a setting by a user.

In addition according to an embodiment of the present invention when the predetermined condition is satisfied the task link control module shares desired resources with the other electronic device. For example data for a monthly data capacity agreement may be exhausted or it may be impossible to establish a network connection. The task link control module shares a use of network resources of the other electronic device. For example when the resource shortage state occurs in the electronic device the task link control module may active a network tethering function or a Bluetooth function of the other electronic device in order to share the network resources of the other electronic device.

Referring to the task link control module includes a resource state monitor an auxiliary device search unit and a context information transmit unit .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the resource state monitor monitors states of resources. The resources monitored by the resource state monitor in real time may be set according to initial settings or may be set by a user. The monitored resources may be set regardless of a currently executed application or the monitored resources may be set in association with the executed application. For example a battery state a memory remaining capacity or the like may be set to be monitored regardless of the executed application. By contrast a telephone signal strength may be set to be monitored while a call application is executed. An amount of data according to a data use agreement or a network connection state may be set to be monitored while a web browser application is executed. The size of a screen may be set to be monitored while a video playing application is executed. The above mentioned monitoring resources setting methods are provided examples and embodiments of the present invention are not limited thereto.

According to an embodiment of the present invention when the resource state monitor detects a resource shortage state the resource state monitor transmits detected information to the auxiliary device search unit . When the auxiliary device search unit receives the resource shortage state information from the resource state monitor the auxiliary device search unit searches for auxiliary electronic devices through a communication interface and transmits a request to use resources to the searched electronic device. In addition when a predetermined condition such as an initial setting or a user input reception is satisfied the auxiliary device search unit searches for the auxiliary electronic devices through the communication interface and transmits the request for to use resources to the searched electronic device. The auxiliary device search unit searches for the auxiliary electronic devices at an initial time in advance and requests a pairing. The auxiliary device search unit stores information regarding an electronic device that accepts the pairing request from among the auxiliary electronic devices When the resource shortage state is detected the auxiliary device search unit directly discovers the stored electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the auxiliary device search unit transmits resource shortage information to the searched electronic device for example other electronic device . The resource shortage information includes information indicating a shortage of at least one resource. At this time if the other electronic device rejects the request to use the resource this other electronic device is excluded. When resource state information for a corresponding resource is received from the other searched electronic device and it is determined that the resource state of the other searched electronic device is superior to a monitored resource state corresponding information is transmitted to the context information transmit unit . According to various embodiments of the present invention there may be a plurality of other searched electronic devices and therefore a plurality of resource state information is received. In this case an electronic device having the most superior resources state is selected and corresponding information is transmitted to the context information transmit unit . According to an embodiment of the present invention the auxiliary device search unit reflects a previous task link history and a statistic of the resources information received from each electronic device to be searched first as a potential electronic device and requests the resources information. An example of data that may be used in exchanging the resources information between electronic devices is shown below.

According to an embodiment of the present invention when it is determined that the resource state of the searched electronic device is superior the context information transmit unit generates context information of the application that is being executed. The context information of the application that is being executed may include task environment information of the application that is being executed. The context information transmit unit transmits the generated context information to the searched electronic device through the communication interface . The searched electronic device restores a task environment of a corresponding application using the received context information to execute the corresponding application. Therefore an application that has been executed in the electronic device having a shortage of resources is executed in the electronic device that has comparatively abundant resources. Thus a user can successively execute a task of an application. The context information may be generated and transferred by using eXtensible Markup Language XML as set forth below for example and predetermined various protocols such as JavaScript Object Notation JSON and a byte unit of protocol between terminals may be used.

The electronic device that has received the context information e.g. the electronic device parses the context information to determine whether the same application exists. When the same application exists the electronic device executes a corresponding application and when the same application does not exist the electronic device links to an application having the same function or a similar category of function.

According to another embodiment of the present invention when the task link control module detects a task shortage state the task link control module shares information regarding desired resources with the other electronic device. For example when a data usage corresponding to a monthly data usage agreement is exhausted or a network connection is impossible the task link control module shares a use of network resources with the other electronic device. For example when the above mentioned resources shortage state occurs in the electronic device the task link control module activates a network tethering function or a Bluetooth function of the other electronic device to share the network resources of the other electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an electronic device includes a communication interface that performs a communication connection with the other electronic device and a task link control module that monitors generation of an event satisfying a predetermined condition when the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected selects the other electronic device through the communication interface generates task environment information regarding an application and transmits the task environment information to the other selected electronic device through the communication interface .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the task link control module selects the other electronic device through the communication interface when the task link control module detects at least one of a generation of a predetermined event a reception of an input instructing a task link by a user and generation of a resource shortage state.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the task link control module controls a search for at least one other electronic device that is connected through the communication interface when the resource shortage state is detected transmits resource shortage information to at least one other searched electronic device and receives resource state information corresponding to the resource shortage information from at least one other searched electronic device.

The task link control module according to an embodiment of the present invention compares the received resource state information with monitored resource state information to determine a superiority of resources and when the received resource state information is superior to the monitored resource state information selects an electronic device having the superior resource state information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the task link control module selects an electronic device that has been determined to be a reliable electronic device in advance.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the task link control module sets a priority of the selection using a task link history or statistics of resources information of a plurality of other electronic devices capable of performing a task link. For example it may be difficult to search for other auxiliary electronic devices and check resource state information of the other electronic devices by the task link control module when resources such as the amount of remaining battery power are short. Therefore the task link control module sets a priority using a past task link history or a statistic of resources information and effectively executes a task link using corresponding priority information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the task link control module searches for the other electronic device in advance requests a pairing to the searched electronic device when the searched electronic device accepts the pairing request controls storage of corresponding electronic device information in a memory and when the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected selects the electronic device of which information is stored in the memory.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a state of resources includes at least one of a battery state an amount of data according to a datause agreement a telephone signal strength a network connection state a memory remaining capacity a processor speed a state of a voice signal output device a state of a screen size and a state of a usable auxiliary device. is a diagram schematically illustrating a method of linking a task of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present invention in step an electronic device determines whether there is a resource shortage state while the electronic device executes an application to perform a predetermined task. When there is a determination that there is a resource shortage state in step the electronic device searches for another electronic device . The search for the other electronic device is performed in a method of searching for an auxiliary electronic device connected through wireless or wired communication. The wireless communication may include for example at least one of WiFi BT NFC GPS and a cellular communication e.g LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. . The wire communication may include for example at least one of a USB HDMI RS 232 and POTS. In addition as described above the electronic device may search for the other electronic device in a method of checking another electronic device that has been determined to be a reliable electronic device in advance. For example a portable terminal that is registered as a family possession an electronic device of a specific model name and an electronic device which satisfies a specific condition at a specific time may be determined to be reliable electronic device by the electronic device . In addition the reliable electronic device may be an electronic device that accepted a pairing with the electronic device in advance. In step the electronic device transmits information regarding the shortage of resources the other searched electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention in step the other searched electronic device checks resource state information of resources corresponding to the information regarding the shortage of resources. In step the checked resource state information may be transmitted to the electronic device . For example when the other searched electronic device is set as a reliable electronic device when the other electronic device is authenticated the other electronic device transmits the checked resource state information to the electronic device . For example when the other searched other electronic device performs a pairing in advance when the other electronic device is determined to be an authenticated paired electronic device the other electronic device transmits the checked resource state information to the electronic device . According to another embodiment of the present invention the electronic device transmits a resource state check request to a plurality of other electronic devices. Each of the plurality of the electronic devices checks predetermined resource state information transmits the checked resource state information to the electronic device . The electronic device generally compares at least one of the resource state information received from the plurality of other electronic devices to set a priority between the other electronic devices .

According to an embodiment of the present invention in step the electronic device receives the resource state information from the other searched electronic device and determines a superiority of resources by comparing the resource state information of the other electronic device with monitored resource state information of the electronic device . When the electronic device determines that the received resource state information is superior to the monitored resource state information in step the electronic device generates context information of an application to be transferred. According to another embodiment of the present invention when the resource shortage state is checked the electronic device may preferentially generate context information of an application which is being executed. In step the generated context information is transmitted to the searched electronic device . When the resource state information is received from the plurality of other electronic devices respectively when it is determined that the resource state information of at least one other electronic device is superior to the monitored resource state information the context information may be transmitted to a corresponding electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present invention when it is determined that resource state information of a plurality of other electronic devices is superior to the monitored resource state information the context information of the application which is to be transferred is transmitted to an electronic device having the most superior resource state information. The context information of the application refers to task environment information. The context information is generated and transferred such as through XML for example and predetermined various protocols such as JSON and a byte unit of protocol between terminals may be used. In step the other electronic device restores a task environment of a corresponding application using the received context information. For example the electronic device parses the context information to determine whether the same application exists in both electronic devices. When the same application exists the other electronic device executes a corresponding application and when the same application does not exist the other electronic device may link to an application having the same function of a similar category. For example when the same application does not exist the other electronic device may link to an application having the most conformity from among compatible applications.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present invention in step the electronic device searches for another electronic device through a communication interface . In step the electronic device transmits a pairing request for usage of resources to the other searched electronic device .

In step the other electronic device upon receiving the pairing request determines whether to accept the pairing request. When the other electronic device accepts the pairing request in step the other electronic device transmits a pairing request acceptance message to the electronic device .

In step the electronic device store information of the electronic device accepting the resources use pairing. The stored electronic device may also be referred to as a paired electronic device herein. When the electronic device detects a resource shortage state and a request to use resources of an auxiliary electronic device is necessary the electronic device directly checks the paired electronic device and sends a request for resources to a corresponding electronic device.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present invention in step an electronic device performs a predetermined task in an executed application. In step the electronic device monitors a state of resources of the electronic device . In step when the electronic device detects a resource shortage state for specific resources in step the electronic device searches for an auxiliary electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present invention in step the electronic device determines whether a paired electronic device exists and when the paired electronic device exists in step the electronic device transmits resource shortage information to the paired electronic device. When the paired electronic device does not exist in step the electronic device transmits the resource shortage information to the searched auxiliary electronic device to request usage of resources.

According to an embodiment of the present invention when the paired electronic device or the searched auxiliary electronic device accepts the resource use request and transmits resource state information for resources experiencing a shortage in step the electronic device receives the resource state information and in step the electronic device compares the received resource state information with monitored resource state information to determine which resource state information is superior. The resource state information of the searched auxiliary electronic device may include resources of at least one of the third auxiliary electronic devices paired with a corresponding electronic device as well as the resources of the auxiliary electronic device but embodiments of the present invention are not limited thereto. As a result of the determination in step when resource state information superior to the monitored resource state information does not exist in step the electronic device searches for an auxiliary electronic device again. When resource state information superior to the monitored resource state information exists in step the electronic device generates context information of the executed application.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device transmits the generated context information to an auxiliary electronic device having the most superior resource state. After the context information is transmitted the electronic device automatically ends execution of a corresponding application.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present invention in step the other paired electronic device receives information regarding a shortage of resources from an electronic device . In step for security the electronic device determines whether the other electronic device is a paired electronic device. When it is determined that the other electronic device is a paired electronic device in step the other electronic device checks resource state information of resources corresponding to the received resource shortage information. In step the other electronic device transmits the checked resource state information to the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention when the electronic device determines that a resource state of the other electronic device is superior in step the other electronic device receives context information of an application from the electronic device . The context information includes context information of an application that is currently executed for a link of an executed task. In step for security the other electronic device re checks whether the electronic device is a paired electronic device. The check operation is not essential and therefore may be selectively performed according to embodiments of the present invention. When it is determined that the electronic device is a paired electronic device in step the other electronic device restores a task environment of a corresponding application using the received context information to execute the corresponding application. According to the present embodiment of the present invention a user can successively perform the corresponding task in the auxiliary electronic device having comparatively abundant resources instead of the electronic device which does not have sufficient resources to perform the task.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method of linking a task of an electronic device includes monitoring for generation of an event satisfying a predetermined condition. When the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected another electronic device that is linkable to the electronic device is selected task environment information of an application is generated and the task environment information is transmitted to the other selected electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition includes at least one of a generation of a predetermined event reception of an input instructing a task link by a user and a generation of resource shortage state.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the selection of the other electronic device according to an embodiment includes when the resource shortage state is detected searching for at least one other electronic device that is connected through a network transmitting resource shortage resource information to at least one other searched electronic device and receiving resource state information corresponding to the resource shortage information from at least one other searched electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the selection of the other electronic device further includes comparing the received resource state information with monitored resource state information to determine a superiority of resources.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the selection of the other electronic device includes selecting an electronic device having the most superior resource state information when the received resource state information is superior to the monitored resource state information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the selection of the other electronic device includes selecting an electronic device that has been predetermined to be a reliable electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the selection of the other electronic device further includes setting a priority of the selection using a task link history or statistics of resource information of a plurality of other electronic devices capable of a task link.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the method further includes searching for other electronic devices in advance requesting a pairing to the searched electronic device and storing corresponding electronic device information when the searched electronic device accepts the pairing request.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the selection of the other electronic device includes selecting the paired electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the method further includes monitoring a state of resources which may include determining resources monitored according to an executed application.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the state of the resources may include at least one of a battery state a data agreement use amount a telephone signal strength a network connection state a memory remaining capacity a processor speed a state of a voice signal output device a state of a screen size and a state of a usable auxiliary device.

Referring to the electronic device includes at least one Application Processor AP a communication module at least one Subscriber Identity Module SIM card slots    N a memory a sensor module an input module a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP drives an operating system or an application program to control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and perform processing and operations with respect to various data including multimedia data. The AP for example may be implemented as a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP further includes a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface of performs data transmission reception in communication with other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device and the server connected to the electronic device e.g. the electronic device through a network. According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication module includes a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provide a voice call a video call an SMS service an Internet service and the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The cellular module may also identify and authenticate an electronic device in a communication network by using for example a SIM e.g. a SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module performs at least some of the functions that can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module includes a Communication Processor CP not shown . Further the cellular module for example may be implemented as an SoC. Although the cellular module e.g. a CP the memory the power management module and the like are shown as separate elements from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the cellular module of the aforementioned elements according to an embodiment of the present invention.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP or the cellular module e.g. a CP loads a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other elements connected thereto into a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module stores data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module for example may include a processor for processing data transmitted or received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are shown as separate blocks in some of these components may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package according to an embodiment of the present invention. For example at least some of processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module respectively e.g. a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module performs data transmission reception such as RF signal transmission reception. Although not shown in the drawing the RF module for example may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA etc. The RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave over the air in wireless communication such as a conductor or a conducting wire. Although according to the example of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may perform RF signal transmission reception through a separate RF module according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The at least one SIM card   to  N may be a card that includes a SIM and may be inserted into at least one slot   to  N formed in a certain position of the electronic device. The at least one SIM card   to  N includes unique identification information e.g. integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory of includes at least one of an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory for example may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM or a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive e.g. a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an eXtreme Digital xD or a memory stick . The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information into an electronic signal. The sensor module for example may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a Red Green and Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and a UltraViolet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module for example may include an E nose sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not shown an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not shown an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not shown an InfraRed IR sensor not shown an iris scanner not shown and or a fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel which recognizes a touch input for example may include not shown at least one of a capacitive touch panel a resistive touch panel an infrared touch panel and an acoustic wave touch panel. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. When the touch panel is a capacitive touch panel the touch panel may recognize a physical contact or proximity to the touch panel . The touch panel may also further include a tactile layer not shown . When the touch panel includes a tactile layer the touch panel provides a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example in a manner similar to that used for receiving a touch input from a user or by using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit identifies data by generating an ultrasonic signal through an input tool and detects a sonic wave through a microphone e.g. the microphone in the electronic device and is capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device also receives user input from an external device e.g. a computer or server connected thereto by using the communication module .

The display e.g. the display of may include a panel a hologram unit or a projector . The panel for example may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel for example may be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may also be incorporated together with the touch panel within a single panel. The hologram unit shows a stereoscopic image in the air by using light interference. The projector displays an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen for example may be located inside or outside of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present invention the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram unit or the projector .

The interface for example may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface for example may be included in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card MultiMedia Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA interface.

The audio module provides bidirectional conversion between a sound and an electronic signal. At least some elements of the audio module for example may be included in the input output interface shown in . The audio module for example may process sound information input or output through a speaker a receiver earphones or the microphone .

The camera module is a device that can take both still and moving images and according to an embodiment of the present invention may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor not shown a lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. a Light Emitting Diode LED or xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module for example may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC for example may be mounted in an IC or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods include wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an overvoltage or excess current from being induced or flowing from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present invention the charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. Examples of the wireless charging include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging and electromagnetic charging and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit and a rectifier may be added in order to perform the wireless charging.

The battery gauge for example may measure the residual capacity charge in voltage current or temperature of the battery . The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery for example may include not shown a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays a specific status of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP for example a boot up status a message status or a charging status. The motor convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting a mobile TV may process media data pursuant to a certain standard for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention may be formed by one or more components and the names of the corresponding elements may vary according to the type of the electronic device. An electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention may include one or more of the above described elements while excluding some of the other elements or may further include other additional elements. Further some of the elements of the electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention may be coupled to form a single entity while performing the same functions as those of the corresponding elements separately.

Referring to the plurality of electronic devices includes a first electronic device and a second electronic device . A communication protocol between the first and second electronic devices and include a device discovery protocol a capability exchange protocol a data protocol an application protocol etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the device discovery protocol is for detecting an external electronic device that can communicate with an electronic device e.g. that can communicate with one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device or a protocol for connecting the external electronic device to the electronic device. For example the first electronic device e.g. the electronic device of detects the second electronic device e.g. the electronic device as a device than can communicate with the first electronic device through a communication protocol e.g WiFi BT or USB usable by the first electronic device . In order to establish a communication connection with the second electronic device the first electronic device acquires identification information of the second electronic device detected through the device discovery protocol and stores the acquired identification information. The first electronic device establishes the communication connection with the second electronic device based on the identification information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the device discovery protocol is used for a mutual authentication among a plurality of electronic devices. For example the first electronic device performs an authentication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device based on communication information for example a Media Access Control MAC address a Universally Unique IDentifier UUID a SubSystem IDentification SSID and an Information Provider IP address for the connection with the second electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the capability exchange protocol is used for exchanging information related to a service function that is supported by at least one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device . For example the first electronic device or the second electronic device exchange information related to a service function currently provided by each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device through the capability exchange protocol . The exchangeable information includes identification information indicating a particular service among a plurality of services that can be supported by the first electronic device or the second electronic device . For example the first electronic device may receive from the second electronic device identification information of a particular service provided by the first electronic device through the capability exchange protocol . In this case the first electronic device determines whether the particular service can be supported by the electronic device itself based on the received identification information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the data protocol is used for controlling a flow of data that is transmitted and received to provide in association with a service between electronic devices e.g the first electronic device and the second electronic device that are connected in order to communicate with each other. For example at least one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device may control an error or data quality by using the data protocol . Additionally or alternatively the data protocol may determine a transmission format of the data that is transmitted and received between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . In addition at least one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device may manage e.g. a session connection or a session ending a session for a mutual data exchange using the data protocol .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the application protocol is used for providing a process or information for exchanging data related to a service provided to an external electronic device. For example the first electronic device e.g. the electronic device of provides a service to the second electronic device e.g. the electronic device or a server through the application protocol .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication protocol includes a standard communication protocol a communication protocol designated by an individual or organization e.g. a communication protocol self designated by a communication device manufacturing company or a network supplying company or a combination thereof.

The term module as used herein may refer to a unit including any of hardware software and firmware or any combination thereof. The module for example may be interchangeable with the term unit logic logical block component or circuit . The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the embodiments of the present invention may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing certain operations including those that are currently known as well as those that may be developed in the future.

According to an embodiment of the present invention at least part of a device e.g. modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations may be embodied by for example an instruction stored in a computer readable storage medium provided in a form of a programming module. When the instruction is performed by at least one processor for example the processor the at least one processor performs a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least some of the programming modules may be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specially configured to store and perform a program instruction for example programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory etc. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present invention and vice versa.

A module or a programming module according to embodiments of the present invention may include at least one of the component elements described herein a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present invention may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed in a different order operations may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to embodiments of the present invention in a recording medium storing instructions when the instructions are executed by at least one processor the instructions are set to perform at least one of operations by at least one of processors. At least one of the operations may include an operation of monitoring a generation of an event satisfying a predetermined condition an operation of selecting other electronic device when the generation of the event satisfying the predetermined condition is detected and an operation of generating task environment information of an application and to transmit the task environment information to the other selected electronic device.

Descriptions of embodiments of the present invention described herein are merely examples used to describe the technology associated with embodiments of the present invention and to help provide an understanding of the embodiments of the present invention but do not limit the scope of the embodiments of the present invention. Therefore in addition to the embodiments described herein the scope of the various embodiments of the present invention include all modifications or modified forms drawn based on the technical ideas of the embodiments of the present invention.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

