---

title: Optical polling platform methods, apparatuses and media
abstract: An image associated with a poll may be acquired via a camera. One or more symbols indicating responses may be found by analyzing the image. The responses specified by the symbols may be determined and saved. The responses may also be displayed to the operator and/or to the respondents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542610&OS=09542610&RS=09542610
owner: Plickers Inc.
number: 09542610
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150629
---
This is a Continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 426 701 filed Mar. 22 2012 entitled OPTICAL POLLING PLATFORM METHODS APPARATUSES AND MEDIA to which priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 is claimed and which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 466 463 filed Mar. 22 2011 entitled Optical Audience Response System. 

This disclosure describes OPTICAL POLLING PLATFORM METHODS APPARATUSES AND MEDIA hereinafter OPP . A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright and or mask work protection. The copyright and or mask work owners have no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserve all copyright and mask work rights whatsoever.

The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are herein expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Audience participation is common in a classroom setting. For example teachers wishing to test students understanding of the material may propose an answer to a posed question and ask those students who agree with the proposed answer to raise their hands. In another example teachers may pose a question and cold call on individual students to provide an answer.

The OPP introduces a new type of polling platform that in various embodiments may facilitate recording of data accurately and or individually keeping responses secret statistical analysis of responses and or the like at a lower cost than traditional audience response polling systems. In some embodiments the OPP avoids the cost of having an electronic device for each audience member while nonetheless collecting responses electronically. For example such embodiments may provide each audience member the ability to visually indicate his or her responses by analyzing images of the audience members and their visually indicated responses to identify their desired responses. In some embodiments the OPP may be used for purposes other than conducting polls. For example the OPP may be used as a game controller as a general input device e.g. to operate a machine and or the like.

The students may indicate their answers using response devices e.g. by holding up a response device . In one embodiment a response device may comprise a sheet of reinforced paper printed with computer readable indicia e.g. a two dimensional black and white barcode symbology that encodes the answer and or ID of the student. For example the answer may be determined by the orientation of a response device while the student providing the answer may be determined by the color of the center square of the response device e.g. student may be identified by the white center square of the response device and student may be identified by the black center square of the response device . In another embodiment a response device may be any device capable of reflecting transmitting and or emitting light and or sound.

The OPP Device may use a peripheral device such as a digital camera to obtain an image of the students holding up their response devices. The OPP Device may analyze the image to determine how each of the students answered the question. In one embodiment the OPP Device may display results e.g. the answer provided by each student and or whether the answer is correct statistics such as the percentage of correct responses to the teacher. In another embodiment the OPP Device may display results e.g. whether a student s response has been recognized and or whether the response is correct to the students. Using results of the poll the teacher may determine whether the students in the class understood the topic and if not the teacher may choose to go over the topic again.

As illustrated at portions of the symbology configuration may also be referred to using twenty five cells e.g. the symbology configuration may comprise 25 squares 25 rectangles and or the like . In this embodiment the hole comprises cell the donut comprises cells through and the ring comprises cells through .

Symbols and illustrate how two respondents e.g. students may use the symbology in this implementation to provide answers to a question while uniquely identifying themselves to the OPP. Symbols and are the same except for their orientation symbol is associated with an answer of A while symbol flipped clockwise ninety degrees compared to symbol is associated with a rotated answer of D. The orientation may be determined by the OPP using the four orientation cells e.g. based on the location of the white orientation cell . Accordingly a first respondent may hold his response device e.g. a symbol as in to provide an answer of A or as in to provide an answer of D. The data cells may identify the first respondent to the OPP. For example the ID of the first respondent based on symbol is a binary number 111111 which is a decimal number . The parity cell may provide error detection and or correction for the first ID. For example since there is an even number of white data cells the parity cell is white. Similarly symbols and are the same except for their orientation symbol is associated with an answer of A while symbol flipped clockwise ninety degrees compared to symbol is associated with a rotated answer of D. Accordingly a second respondent may hold his response device as in to provide an answer of A or as in to provide an answer of D. The data cells may identify the second respondent to the OPP. For example the ID of the second respondent based on symbol is a binary number 111101 which is a decimal number . The parity cell may provide error detection and or correction for the second ID. For example since there is an odd number of white data cells the parity cell is black.

In other embodiments symbologies may include cells that have colors other than white and black include cells that may be shaded using various patterns may include cells with non rectangular shapes may provide space for respondents to write responses by hand may include known 2 dimensional barcode formats such as QR Code DataMatrix and or the like may use a different number and or configuration of cells e.g. 4 by 4 or 6 by 8 instead of 5 by 5 may include symbols e.g. numbers letters inside and or outside and or independent of cells may include a side indicator e.g. the OPP may use a side indicator cell of a double sided symbol to determine which side of the symbol is being presented to facilitate the use of answer choices E F G and H and or the like.

In at regions of an exemplary symbology configuration are shown using different patterns. In this embodiment portions of the symbology configuration may be referred to using two regions. The center region may be referred to as the data cells. The region surrounding the data cells may be referred to as the border cells. Portions of the symbology configuration may also be referred to using twenty five cells see at . In this embodiment the data cells comprise cells through and the border cells comprise cells through .

The symbology described at corresponds to the symbology configuration described at . In the symbology is based on a grid of cells e.g. a 5 by 5 grid of square cells . In one embodiment each cell may be either light absorbing e.g. black or light reflecting e.g. white . In one implementation the data cells may be either white or black and the border cells may be static. In this implementation and with reference to symbol nine data cells cells through may be used as data bits e.g. a white cell is a 1 and a black cell is a 0 to provide five hundred and twelve unique values e.g. used to identify participants in an auditorium border cells and as described in at may be black and border cells and may be white. For example the number of black and white border cells may be equal to facilitate finding an appropriate threshold value e.g. calculated as the average pixel value of the border cells which may give an approximation of 50 percent gray that may be useful during locating and or decoding of a symbol. For example the shading of the border cells may be rotationally asymmetric to facilitate determining the orientation of a symbol e.g. regardless of the contents of the data cells . In this implementation at a symbol may also include letters A B C and D on the sides e.g. to let a respondent know how to orient the symbol to provide an answer the letter on the top which is upright is the answer associated with that orientation of the symbol . Furthermore at more selections could be attained by using a mirror image of the symbol on the reverse side of the response device to offer additional response selections E F G and H.

An image may be acquired at . For example data regarding the image may be stored in the images data store using one or more SQL queries substantially in the following form 

The acquired image may have responses e.g. answers to questions from one or more respondents to the poll. In one embodiment to submit a response to the poll a respondent may pick up his response device and may hold the response device so that it is facing the camera e.g. substantially perpendicular to the line of sight from the camera to the center of the response device a normal to the surface of the response device through the center of the response device should be pointed substantially at the camera and or the like . Before during or after holding up the device the respondent may look at the letters printed on the sides e.g. A B C D with reference to may select which response the respondent wants to submit and may orient the response device accordingly. In other embodiments techniques other than orientation of the response device may be used to specify a response. For example a response device may be shown or hidden a response device may be skewed with respect to the camera line of sight a response device may be rotated in some combination of yaw pitch roll and or the like with respect to camera line of sight a response device may be moved toward or away from the camera or in some other direction a response device s position and or orientation e.g. pose with respect to the camera and or other objects may be altered a response device may be flipped to one of the sides e.g. front or back a response device may be selected from multiple response devices a response device may be modified e.g. flip slide rotate and or the like a portion of the response device a response device may be written on a response device may be positioned in some way e.g. relative to the respondent s body relative to room and or objects toward or away from the camera a response device may emit light a response device may change color and or the like. It is to be understood that depending on implementation and or poll respondents may use multiple response device input types and or multiple response devices during a session. For example a respondent may choose a response device among a set of devices may use a response device with multiple response device input mechanisms e.g. a multiple choice answer on one side and a fill in answer on the other side and or the like. In another example the respondent may use a first response device to select the input type of the second response device to be used for the following question. In various implementations the choice of the response device input types and or response devices may depend on the respondent the response device the response device side the response device orientation the response device pose time previous inputs and or responses location in image and or the like. In various embodiments a response may be an answer to a true false question an answer to a multiple choice question an answer to a free response question e.g. a dial that indicates an integer and or a floating point number a meta and or control command e.g. next question previous question delete answer new answer save answer cancel a selection from among a set of options e.g. a drop down menu or other display any other input e.g. manipulate an onscreen cursor wheel dial joystick selection point on a plane and or the like and or the like. It is to be understood that depending on implementation and or poll respondents may respond to questions synchronously e.g. students answer the same question posed by a teacher asynchronously e.g. students answer quiz questions at their own pace continuously e.g. steering an object manipulating a cursor and or the like. Further respondents may have the ability to alter their selection answer and or other input by submitting a new response.

The acquired image may be analyzed at . The image may be analyzed to determine whether the image contains one or more response devices with data that may be detected and or decoded by the OPP. For example the image may be analyzed to determine whether a respondent identifier and or a response may be detected and or decoded for at least one response device. See for additional details regarding analyzing the acquired image. If the image contains such response devices the responses provided via such response devices may be determined at e.g. based on the analysis performed at .

In some embodiments a progress indicator may be updated at . For example the progress indicator may show e.g. via a response grid which respondents provided responses what response a respondent provided whether a respondent changed his or her response how many of the respondents provided a response to a question how many respondents selected each of the answer choices for a question how many questions have been answered by respondents and or the like. In one implementation the progress indicator may be shown to the operator e.g. via an operator display . For example a teacher may wish to observe how students in a class are proceeding with a poll e.g. a quiz but may not wish to show this information to the students. In another implementation the progress indicator may be shown to respondents e.g. via a respondents display . For example the teacher may wish to show each student whether his or her response to the poll has been correctly detected and or decoded by the OPP.

A determination may be made at whether to continue the poll. In one embodiment the poll may be continued until an input is received from the operator indicating otherwise e.g. until the operator presses the Pause Poll or the Stop Poll button of the OPP application . In another embodiment the poll may be continued for a predetermined amount of time e.g. for one hour allotted for a quiz . If the poll should be continued the next image may be acquired at . For example the next image may be handled as described above to determine whether additional responses e.g. responses from other respondents responses to other questions additional responses for the same question and or the like have been received.

If the poll should not be continued the OPP may stop acquiring and or analyzing images. Accordingly further responses may not be accepted. Results of the poll may be saved at . In one embodiment data regarding responses and or respondents may be saved. For example responses respondents identifiers response timings response locations response images respondent images and or the like may be saved. In one implementation such data may be saved in the responses data store using one or more SQL queries substantially in the following form 

In some embodiments results of the poll may be displayed at . For example displayed results may include responses that respondents provided correct answers poll statistics e.g. graphs charts tables and or the like. In one implementation the results of the poll may be displayed to the operator. In another implementation the results of the poll may be displayed to the respondents. Furthermore in some embodiments the results of the poll e.g. in whole or in part of a series of polls e.g. for the duration of the course and or the like may be shared by the OPP and or by the operator and or by the respondents with others. In some embodiments these others may also be granted permission to share poll results and or other OPP data with still others. For example a teacher may share the results of a quiz with a student s parents e.g. by instructing the OPP to send an email to an email address associated with the student e.g. to the email address stored in the users data store to help the student s parents coach the student in areas in which the student is weak.

The OPP device may send an image acquisition request to camera . The image acquisition request may be a programmatic command to the camera e.g. sent via a USB cable to begin acquiring images. In various implementations the camera may be one or more digital cameras webcams video cameras electronically moveable pan tilt zoom PTZ cameras sensors cameras embedded in mobile devices e.g. smart phones tablets media players and or the like peripheral devices. In various implementations the camera may be discreet external embedded integrated into the OPP device and or the like.

The camera may capture an image with response inputs A B from respondents A B respectively. For example the response inputs may include data such as the response e.g. an answer a meta and or control command a selection cursor movement and or other input respondent ID and or the like. The response inputs may be provided via one or more response devices. In various embodiments a response device may be a reflective surface e.g. a sheet of reinforced paper a card clothing and or the like printed with a symbology a light emitting object e.g. a laser pointer a flashlight an omnidirectional source an array and or pattern of emitters a stencil and or mask over light source a body part e.g. a gesture a facial expression an object e.g. objects having different shapes colors size an audio input e.g. a beep a tone speech and or the like.

The camera may send an image acquisition response to the OPP device. The image acquisition response may include data such as an image e.g. in the JPEG image format audio e.g. in the WAV audio format metadata e.g. data information time information geolocation information camera settings and or the like stored in exchangeable image file format EXIF and or the like.

The OPP device may analyze image data . The image data may be analyzed to determine information such as a response a respondent identifier and or the like for one or more respondents. For example data regarding the image may be retrieved from the images data store using one or more SQL queries substantially in the following form 

The OPP device may analyze response data . The response data may be analyzed to determine information such as statistics for one or more respondents questions polls and or the like. For example data regarding responses may be retrieved from the responses data store using one or more SQL queries substantially in the following form 

The OPP device may provide an operator results output to the operator. For example the operator results output may include data such as responses that respondents provided correct answers poll statistics e.g. graphs charts tables and or the like. In one embodiment the operator results output may be displayed to the operator using the OPP application via the operator s monitor. In another embodiment the operator results output may be printed out by the operator using the OPP application via a printer.

In some embodiments the OPP device may provide one or more respondent results outputs A B to the respondents. For example the respondent results outputs may include data such as responses that respondents provided correct answers poll statistics e.g. graphs charts tables and or the like. In one embodiment a common respondent results output may be displayed to respondents via one or more respondent monitors e.g. students may see how each of the students in a class answered a question students may be unable to see other students responses and or the like . In another embodiment different results outputs may be displayed to respondents via one or more respondent monitors e.g. each student may see his or her own answer to a question but may not see how other students answered the question .

In some embodiments the OPP device may synchronize data with an OPP server . The OPP server may be a cloud server a server in a client server architecture in which the OPP device is a client and or the like. In one implementation the OPP device may initiate synchronization by sending a synchronization request to the OPP server. For example the synchronization request may include data regarding the poll regarding the responses regarding statistics and or the like and may be in XML format substantially in the following form 

A determination may be made at whether symbols may be located. In various embodiments the contours of possible symbols may be determined. In some implementations one or more validation checks e.g. to determine whether the symbols satisfy certain size shape color brightness and or the like conditions may be performed to determine whether the contours may be possible valid symbols. See for additional details regarding locating symbols.

A determination may be made at whether the located symbols may be decoded. In various embodiments the OPP may attempt to decode possible symbols specified by the contours. In various implementations the OPP may attempt to determine orientations of the symbols the angles off of vertical e.g. between 45 and 45 degrees at which the symbols were held the poses e.g. position and or orientation at which the symbols were held responses specified by the symbols the identities of the respondents specified by the symbols and or the like. Data specified by the decoded symbols may be saved at e.g. in the responses data store . See for additional details regarding decoding symbols.

The results of the analysis may be returned at . In one embodiment the results of the analysis may comprise data specified by the decoded symbols. For example data specified by a decoded symbol may be used to determine the identity of a respondent and or the response provided by the respondent.

At the OPP may attempt to find holes as described in that may be present in the image. In one embodiment the OPP may attempt to find holes by trying to find strong edges in the image that form closed loops with no edges inside the loop. For example contours meeting these conditions may be saved to a list e.g. a C vector of hole contours. See for additional details regarding finding holes.

A determination may be made at whether more holes should be analyzed. In one embodiment the list of holes that were found at may be iterated through e.g. using a for loop until each hole is analyzed. If more holes remain to be analyzed the next hole may be selected for analysis at . For example the for loop may be implemented in C substantially in the following form 

A determination may be made at whether the selected hole may be validated. In various embodiments one or more validation checks e.g. to determine whether the selected hole satisfies certain size shape color brightness and or the like conditions may be performed to determine whether the selected hole may be the center of a symbol. For example if the selected hole passes the validation checks it may be analyzed further but if the selected hole fails the validation checks it may be discarded and the next hole may be selected for analysis. See for additional details regarding validating holes.

A determination may be made at whether a symbol may be located. In various embodiments the contour of a possible symbol associated with the selected hole may be determined. In some implementations one or more validation checks e.g. to determine whether the symbol satisfies certain size shape color brightness and or the like conditions may be performed to determine whether the contour may be a possible valid symbol. For example if the contour passes the validation checks it may be analyzed further but if the contour fails the validation checks it may be discarded and the next hole may be selected for analysis. See for additional details regarding locating symbols.

A determination may be made at whether a symbol may be decoded. In various embodiments the OPP may attempt to decode a possible symbol specified by the contour. In various implementations the OPP may attempt to determine the orientation of the symbol the angle off of vertical e.g. between 45 and 45 degrees at which the symbol was held the pose e.g. position and or orientation at which the symbol was held the response specified by the symbol the identity of the respondent specified by the symbol and or the like. For example if the OPP decodes the symbol data specified by the symbol may be saved at e.g. in the responses data store but if the OPP fails to decode the symbol it may be discarded and the next hole may be selected for analysis. See for additional details regarding decoding symbols.

If no more holes remain to be analyzed the results of the analysis may be returned at . In one embodiment the results of the analysis may comprise data specified by the decoded symbols. For example data specified by a decoded symbol may be used to determine the identity of a respondent and or the response provided by the respondent.

The captured image may be converted to a grayscale image at . In one embodiment each pixel s RGB color space value may be analyzed e.g. based on luminance and assigned a corresponding grayscale value to produce the grayscale image.

An edge image may be created from the grayscale image at . A binary e.g. black and white edge image may be used to differentiate strong edges from weak edges and or unvarying areas. In one embodiment pixels in the grayscale image having strong edges e.g. abrupt brightness changes may be white in the edge image while pixels with weak edges and or unvarying areas in the grayscale image may be black in the edge image. In one implementation Canny edge detection may be used to generate the edge image.

An object representation of contours may be generated at . In one embodiment contour finding may be performed on the edge image to generate a hierarchical representation e.g. a tree of the objects e.g. connected pixels of the same color in the edge image. For example a contour in the tree may be a list of the pixels making up the contour s outer edge and the hierarchical representation may indicate whether a contour is located inside another contour e.g. a contour that is within another contour is a child of the containing contour .

A determination may be made at whether more contours should be analyzed. In one embodiment the hierarchical representation of contours that were found at may be iterated through e.g. using an inorder traversal until each contour is analyzed. If more contours remain to be analyzed the next contour may be selected for analysis at .

A determination may be made at whether a contour is relevant. In one embodiment a contour is relevant if the contour satisfies the following two conditions. First the contour represents the exterior of a black area in the edge image e.g. having tree data model depth that is an odd number . This ensures that the edge around the hole is a closed loop i.e. an uninterrupted edge . Second the contour should have no child contours e.g. no children in the tree data model . This ensures that there are no edges inside the hole.

If the contour is relevant the contour may be added to the list of hole contours at . If the contour is not relevant it may be discarded and the next contour may be selected for analysis. If no more contours should to be analyzed the list of hole contours may be returned at .

The minimum bounding box e.g. a rotated rectangle for the hole contour may be determined at . In one embodiment the Rotating Calipers method may be used to determine the minimum bounding box.

A determination may be made whether the minimum bounding box is proper at . In one embodiment the minimum bounding box is proper if it is approximately square. In one implementation the lengths of the width and height of the minimum bounding box may be compared and if the difference between these lengths is less than a predetermined threshold e.g. 5 percent 5 pixels the minimum bounding box may be considered approximately square. In another embodiment the minimum bounding box is proper if the hole contour approximately fills the minimum bounding box. In one implementation the areas of the hole contour and the minimum bounding box may be compared and if the difference between these areas is less than a predetermined threshold e.g. 10 percent 20 pixels the hole contour may be considered to approximately fill the minimum bounding box.

If the minimum bounding box is not proper the hole may be considered invalid at . Otherwise a region of interest ROI for the hole may be defined at . In one embodiment the bounding upright e.g. axis aligned rectangle for the hole may be determined. In one implementation the coordinates of the pixels e.g. as x y coordinates in the hole contour may be examined to determine pixels with coordinates min x y max x y x min y x max y and the bounding upright rectangle may be specified by coordinates min x min y max x max y . The ROI may be defined such that it contains the entire symbol under the assumption that the hole is the center of a symbol e.g. at least five times as wide and high as the hole for the symbology in . For example the ROI may be defined as a rectangle that has the width and height that are seven times those of the bounding upright rectangle with the bounding upright rectangle in the center.

The size and or position of the donut as described in may be estimated at . In one embodiment the bounding upright rectangle may be used to make this estimate. For example the donut may be estimated to be a rectangle that has the width and height that are three times e.g. for the symbology in those of the bounding upright rectangle with the bounding upright rectangle in the center.

An integral image for the ROI may be generated at . In one embodiment the grayscale image e.g. created at may be used to generate the integral image for the ROI. The average brightness in the hole may be calculated at and the average brightness in the donut may be calculated at . In one embodiment the integral image may be used for these calculations.

A determination may be made at whether the average brightnesses in the hole and or in the donut are proper. In one embodiment the average brightness in the hole may be compared to the average brightness in the donut to determine whether the average brightness in the hole is sufficiently greater e.g. based on a threshold value than the average brightness in the donut e.g. for the symbology in .

If the average brightnesses are not proper the hole may be considered invalid at . Otherwise a threshold brightness value for the hole may be calculated at and the hole may be considered valid at . In one embodiment the threshold brightness value may be calculated as the average of the average brightness in the hole and the average brightness in the donut.

A binarized image may be generated at . In one embodiment to generate the binarized image the brightness of the pixels may be compared to a threshold brightness value e.g. 50 percent and pixels brighter than the threshold value may be set to white while pixels darker than the threshold value may be set to black. In one implementation the binarized image may be generated for the ROI based on the threshold brightness value e.g. calculated at as applied to the grayscale image e.g. created at .

Object representation for the binarized image may be generated at . In one embodiment the object representation may be generated for the entire image. In another embodiment the object representation may be generated for the ROI. In one implementation contour finding may be performed on the binarized image to generate a hierarchical representation e.g. a tree of the objects e.g. connected pixels of the same color in the binarized image. For example a contour in the tree may be a list of the pixels making up the contour s outer edge and the hierarchical representation may indicate whether a contour is located inside another contour e.g. a contour that is within another contour is a child of the containing contour .

External contours e.g. the outside border of the black cells in the symbol in the binarized image may be identified at . For example external contours may be those that have one child contour e.g. the child contour is the hole for the symbol and whose child contour has no children e.g. the hole is white . In one embodiment the hierarchical representation of contours that were found at may be iterated through e.g. using an inorder traversal and each external contour may be added to a list of identifiers of external contours.

A determination may be made at whether external contours have been found e.g. whether the length of the list of identifiers of external contours is greater than zero . If no external contours have been found no symbols have been located . Otherwise a determination may be made at whether more contour sets should be analyzed. If more contour sets remain to be analyzed the next contour set may be selected for analysis at .

A determination may be made at whether the contour set is proper. In one embodiment the minimum bounding boxes for the parent contour e.g. the external contour and or for the child contour e.g. the hole contour may be determined. In one implementation the average size of the parent contour minimum bounding box e.g. by finding the mean of the box s height and width and or of the child contour minimum bounding box may be calculated. The contour set may be considered proper if the ratio of the average size of the parent contour minimum bounding box is approximately 5 times e.g. between 4.5 and 5.5 times the average size of the child contour minimum bounding box e.g. for the symbology in . In another implementation the contour set may be considered proper if the parent contour minimum bounding box and or the child contour minimum bounding box are approximately square. For example the lengths of the width and height of a minimum bounding box may be compared and if the difference between these lengths is less than a predetermined threshold e.g. 5 percent 5 pixels the minimum bounding box may be considered approximately square. In yet another embodiment the contour set may be considered proper if the parent contour minimum bounding box and the child contour minimum bounding box have approximately the same center. For example the parent contour minimum bounding box and the child contour minimum bounding box have approximately the same center if the center of the parent contour minimum bounding box is inside the child contour minimum bounding box.

If the contour set is not proper it may be discarded and the next contour set may be selected for analysis. Otherwise the contour set may define the position of a possible symbol and may be added to a list of possible symbols at . In one embodiment the bounding box of the external contour may be scaled so that the vertices of this box are approximately centered in the corner cells of the symbol e.g. scale this box by approximately 0.8 so that it is four fifths its previous size and the scaled bounding box may be added to the list of possible symbols.

If no more contour sets remain to be analyzed a determination may be made at whether any possible symbols have been found e.g. whether the length of the list of possible symbols is greater than zero . If no possible symbols have been found no symbols have been located . Otherwise possible symbols have been located .

The captured image may be pruned e.g. to eliminate areas of the image where symbols are unlikely to exist at . In one embodiment the captured image may be converted to a grayscale image. In one implementation each pixel s RGB color space value may be analyzed e.g. based on luminance and assigned a corresponding grayscale value to produce the grayscale image. In one embodiment an edge image may be created from the grayscale image. A binary e.g. black and white edge image may be used to differentiate strong edges from weak edges and or unvarying areas. In one embodiment pixels in the grayscale image having strong edges e.g. abrupt brightness changes may be white in the edge image while pixels with weak edges and or unvarying areas in the grayscale image may be black in the edge image. In one implementation Canny edge detection may be used to generate the edge image. In one embodiment areas with too much edge and or too little edge may be pruned and not examined further. In another embodiment areas with too much and or too little color saturation luminance brightness and or the like may be pruned and not examined further. In yet another embodiment background segmentation may be used to prune areas that are part of the scene background and therefore may not contain symbols.

An integral image may be generated at . In one embodiment the grayscale image e.g. created at may be used to generate the integral image. For example the integral image may facilitate determining the average intensity of rectangular regions by reducing the number of operations that have to be performed. A given pixel in the integral image may contain the sum of the pixel values of pixels directly above directly to the left and above and to the left of the given pixel. Accordingly the integral image may facilitate determining the average intensity of a rectangular region because such a determination may be performed using the values of four pixels e.g. one at each corner regardless of the region s size.

The integral image may be searched for raw detections of possible symbols at . In one embodiment windows e.g. square regions representing potential locations of possible symbols may be used to search for raw detections of possible symbols. In one implementation square regions of various sizes may be scanned across and or down the integral image. Each window may be checked for the presence of a possible symbol. For example regions of a window coinciding with the border cells of a symbol e.g. for the symbology in may be compared to their expected intensity accommodating for the fact that the possible symbol may be in any of the orientations e.g. each orientation representing a different selection . In one embodiment in each window the average pixel value for the border cells may be calculated and used as a threshold brightness value e.g. approximately 50 percent gray . In one implementation the average pixel value of each border cell may be compared to the threshold brightness value to determine whether the border cell is black or white. In another implementation different threshold brightness values may be used for black and white e.g. by multiplying the 50 percent gray threshold brightness value by one or more threshold factors such as 1.05 for white and 0.95 for black . If a border cell is found that causes there to be no possible orientation of the possible symbol matching the border cells configuration specified by the symbology the window may be discarded and the next window may be searched. If the border cells of a window match the expected intensities of an orientation of the border cell configuration specified by the symbology the possible symbol associated with the window may be saved as a raw detection of a possible symbol. A representation of the matching orientation may also be saved and used to determine the desired selection e.g. the answer provided by a respondent for the possible symbol.

In one embodiment groups of raw detections that significantly overlap each other may be clustered into one detection at . In one implementation clustering may be accomplished by averaging the position of the top left corner and or the width and or the height of each raw detection. This clustered detection may provide a more precise estimate of the position and or size of the possible detected symbol may help eliminate false detections e.g. if each clustered detection should come from some number greater than one of raw detections and or the like.

A determination may be made at whether any possible symbols have been found. If no clustered detections have been found no symbols have been located . Otherwise possible symbols have been located .

A grid for the possible symbol may be established at . In one embodiment the grid may comprise a set of points for each cell in the possible symbol such that each point in the grid is a point approximately at the center of a cell in the possible symbol. In one implementation the grid may be 5 points by 5 points and each point in the grid may be determined based on the possible symbol s scaled bounding box e.g. as determined at . For example the scaled bounding box may be divided into 16 equal rectangles and the 25 points that form the vertices of these rectangles may provide the coordinates for the 25 points in the grid.

Each of the points in the grid may be sampled from the binarized image e.g. as generated at associated with the possible symbol at . In one embodiment the coordinates of the points in the grid may be used to select a point in the binarized image and the color e.g. black or white may be stored in a corresponding position in a 5 by 5 array representation of the possible symbol.

The orientation of the possible symbol may be determined at . In one embodiment the four orientation cells in the array representation may be examined to determine whether three of them are black and one of them is white. If this is not the case the orientation is not valid and a symbol has not been detected and or decoded . Otherwise the symbol s orientation e.g. the answer provided by a respondent may be determined based on the orientation cells.

A determination may be made at whether the static cells of the possible symbol are in their proper positions. In one embodiment the cells in the array representation that should be static per symbology specifications may be examined to determine whether their color matches the color specified by the symbology specifications e.g. based on data stored in the symbology data store .

If the static cells of the possible symbol are not in their proper positions a symbol has not been detected and or decoded . Otherwise data encoded by the possible symbol may be determined at . In one embodiment the six data cells in the array representation may be examined to determine an identifier e.g. the identifier of the respondent .

Error checking may be performed at to confirm that the data determined at is valid. In one embodiment the parity cell in the array representation may be examined to determine whether the parity cell s value matches the parity value associated with the data cells. If the parity value is not valid a symbol has not been detected and or decoded . Otherwise a symbol has been detected and or decoded .

A threshold check may be performed at for the possible symbol. In one embodiment each border cell of the clustered detection e.g. as determined at associated with the possible symbol may be rechecked to match the expected values using a new threshold brightness value that is based on the average value of the clustered detection s border using more rigorous threshold factors and or the like. In one embodiment the average value of each of the data cells of the clustered detection may be compared to the new threshold values. The clustered detection may pass the threshold check if the border cells and or the data cells match the expected values.

A determination may be made at whether the possible symbol passed the threshold check. If the possible symbol did not pass the threshold check a symbol has not been detected and or decoded . Otherwise data encoded by the possible symbol may be determined at . In one embodiment the nine data cells may be examined to determine an identifier e.g. a binary number representing the identifier of the respondent . In one implementation a white data cell may represent a 1 and a black data cell may represent a 0. The orientation of the symbol may be accommodated for while determining the identifier to ensure that the data cells are correctly associated with their corresponding digits in the binary number. In this case a symbol has been detected and or decoded .

Application Screen may include a response grid . In one embodiment each respondent may have a response space e.g. a rectangle and or a color e.g. a unique color a color that may be assigned to other respondents in the response grid that is assigned to the respondent. In one implementation the response space in the response grid assigned to a respondent may remain constant e.g. for the duration of the course to help the respondent find his or her response space e.g. a rectangle in a specific location having a specific color . In another implementation each response space may be shared among more than one respondent and or may display information for one respondent at a time e.g. response spaces may move pop up change colors to indicate the relevant respondent and or the like . In various embodiments the response space may display information such as the respondent s identifier e.g. number symbol initials name avatar coded name the respondent s response e.g. answer choice selection pose other input and or the like the respondent s current and or active question e.g. for asynchronous questions the number of times that the respondent submitted a response e.g. 1 upon submission of the first answer whether the respondent changed his or her response e.g. selected a different answer choice whether the respondent is participating in the current poll e.g. a shaded rectangle indicates that the respondent is not participating and or the like. In some embodiments the respondent may be informed regarding the status of detecting the respondent s response. For example the color of the respondent s response space may change to another color e.g. white while the response device associated with that response space is actively being detected e.g. detected in the most recent image frame . In another example the color of the respondent s response space may change to another color e.g. bright green if a response different from a previously provided response is detected e.g. a student changed his or her answer . In yet another example the color of the respondent s response space may change to different colors depending on whether a response is correct or incorrect hot or cold high or low and or the like.

Application Screen may include a Hide Answers button . In one embodiment this button may allow an operator specify whether the respondents should be able to see answers in the response grid. For example a teacher may wish to hide the answers provided by students from other students e.g. a student may see whether his or her answers has been detected but may not see which answer has been detected . In another example a teacher may wish to prevent students from knowing answers provided by other students by displaying encoded answers.

Application Screen shows a results user interface that may be used by the OPP application e.g. to facilitate providing feedback to respondents . Application Screen may include a results graph . In various embodiments the results graph e.g. a bar graph a box and whisker graph a line graph a scatter plot a pie chart a Venn diagram and or the like may display the results of a poll. For example the results graph may be a bar graph indicating how many respondents selected each of the answer choices e.g. students selected answer choice A . In some implementations the results graph may highlight one or more answers e.g. the correct answer or answers the most common incorrect answer and or the like .

Application Screen shows an analysis user interface that may be used by the OPP application e.g. to facilitate analysis of a poll by the operator . Application Screen may include a class selection widget . For example the class selection widget may be a dropdown box that allows the operator to specify a class e.g. associated with a list of students and or questions for which responses and or analysis should be displayed. e.g. the Period 4 Algebra II class .

Application Screen may include an analysis table . In one embodiment the analysis table may include the identifiers of the respondents. For example the analysis table may include the names of the students on the left side. In one embodiment the analysis table may include identifiers of the questions in the poll. For example the analysis table may include question numbers on top.

In one embodiment the analysis table may include responses provided by the respondents. For example correct responses may have a white background incorrect responses may have a black background unanswered questions may be shaded and or the like.

In various embodiments the analysis table may include poll statistics. In one implementation the analysis table may include grades for the poll e.g. on the right side . For example if a student answered three out of four questions correctly the student may receive a grade of 75 percent. In another example if a student answered three out of four questions and answered two of these three questions correctly the student may receive a grade of 66.7 percent. In one implementation the analysis table may include averages per question e.g. on the bottom . For example if three out of four students answered a question correctly the question may have an average of 75 percent. In another example if three out of five students answered a question and each of those three students answered the question correctly the question may have an average of 100 percent. In one implementation the analysis table may include an overall average e.g. on the bottom right . For example the overall average may be the average grade for a class. In one implementation the analysis table may include information regarding correlations between results of the poll and other data such as demographics location in the classroom number of answer changes and or the like.

In various embodiments the analysis table may be color coded to help the operator identify patterns outliers data of interest and or the like. In one implementation a row associated with a respondent may be highlighted based on the respondent s responses grade and or the like. For example if a student is struggling e.g. received a grade on a quiz below a predetermined threshold the row associated with the student may be highlighted. In one implementation a column associated with a question may be highlighted based on the respondent s responses question average and or the like. For example if a question is unclear or too difficult e.g. the average for the question is below a predetermined threshold the column associated with the question may be highlighted.

In one embodiment data displayed in the analysis table may be updated as soon as new information is available. For example the analysis table may be updated during a poll as responses are received. In another embodiment data displayed in the analysis table may be updated based on receiving a command from the operator. For example the analysis table may be updated upon receiving a refresh data command from the operator.

The OPP coordinator includes a processor that executes program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions . In various embodiments the processor may be a general purpose microprocessor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a dedicated microprocessor e.g. a graphics processing unit GPU a physics processing unit PPU a digital signal processor DSP a network processor and or the like an external processor a plurality of processors e.g. working in parallel distributed and or the like a microcontroller e.g. for an embedded system and or the like. The processor may be implemented using integrated circuits ICs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and or the like. In various implementations the processor may comprise one or more cores may include embedded elements e.g. a coprocessor such as a math coprocessor a cryptographic coprocessor a physics coprocessor and or the like registers cache memory software may be synchronous e.g. using a clock signal or asynchronous e.g. without a central clock and or the like. For example the processor may be an AMD FX processor an AMD Opteron processor an AMD Geode LX processor an Intel Core i7 processor an Intel Xeon processor an Intel Atom processor an ARM Cortex processor an IBM PowerPC processor and or the like.

The processor may be connected to system memory via a system bus . The system bus may interconnect these and or other elements of the OPP coordinator via electrical electronic optical wireless and or the like communication links e.g. the system bus may be integrated into a motherboard that interconnects OPP coordinator elements and provides power from a power supply . In various embodiments the system bus may comprise one or more control buses address buses data buses memory buses peripheral buses and or the like. In various implementations the system bus may be a parallel bus a serial bus a daisy chain design a hub design and or the like. For example the system bus may comprise a front side bus a back side bus AMD s HyperTransport Intel s QuickPath Interconnect a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus a PCI Express bus a low pin count LPC bus a universal serial bus USB and or the like. The system memory in various embodiments may comprise registers cache memory e.g. level one level two level three read only memory ROM e.g. BIOS flash memory random access memory RAM e.g. static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM error correcting code ECC memory and or the like. The system memory may be discreet external embedded integrated into a CPU and or the like. The processor may access read from write to store in erase modify and or the like the system memory in accordance with program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions executed by the processor. The system memory may facilitate accessing storing retrieving modifying deleting and or the like data e.g. OPP data by the processor.

In various embodiments input output devices may be connected to the processor and or to the system memory and or to one another via the system bus.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more graphics devices . The processor may make use of the one or more graphic devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions executed by the processor. In one implementation a graphics device may be a video card that may obtain e.g. via a connected video camera process e.g. render a frame output e.g. via a connected monitor television and or the like and or the like graphical e.g. multimedia video image text data e.g. OPP data . A video card may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI AGP PCI Express USB PC Card ExpressCard and or the like. A video card may use one or more graphics processing units GPUs for example by utilizing AMD s CrossFireX and or NVIDIA s SLI technologies. A video card may be connected via an interface e.g. video graphics array VGA digital video interface DVI Mini DVI Micro DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI DisplayPort Thunderbolt composite video S Video component video and or the like to one or more displays e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD touchscreen and or the like that display graphics. For example a video card may be an AMD Radeon HD 6990 an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5870 an AMD FirePro V9800P an AMD Radeon E6760 MXM V3.0 Module an NVIDIA GeForce GTX 590 an NVIDIA GeForce GTX 580M an Intel HD Graphics 3000 and or the like. In another implementation a graphics device may be a video capture board that may obtain e.g. via coaxial cable process e.g. overlay with other graphical data capture convert e.g. between different formats such as MPEG2 to H.264 and or the like graphical data. A video capture board may be and or include a TV tuner may be compatible with a variety of broadcast signals e.g. NTSC PAL ATSC QAM may be a part of a video card and or the like. For example a video capture board may be an ATI All in Wonder HD a Hauppauge ImpactVBR 01381 a Hauppauge WinTV HVR 2250 a Hauppauge Colossus 01414 and or the like. A graphics device may be discreet external embedded integrated into a CPU and or the like. A graphics device may operate in combination with other graphics devices e.g. in parallel to provide improved capabilities data throughput color depth and or the like.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more audio devices . The processor may make use of the one or more audio devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions executed by the processor. In one implementation an audio device may be a sound card that may obtain e.g. via a connected microphone process output e.g. via connected speakers and or the like audio data e.g. OPP data . A sound card may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB PC Card ExpressCard and or the like. A sound card may be connected via an interface e.g. tip sleeve TS tip ring sleeve TRS RCA TOSLINK optical to one or more amplifiers speakers e.g. mono stereo surround sound subwoofers digital musical instruments and or the like. For example a sound card may be an Intel AC 97 integrated codec chip an Intel HD Audio integrated codec chip a Creative Sound Blaster X Fi Titanium HD a Creative Sound Blaster X Fi Go Pro a Creative Sound Blaster Recon 3D a Turtle Beach Riviera a Turtle Beach Amigo II and or the like. An audio device may be discreet external embedded integrated into a motherboard and or the like. An audio device may operate in combination with other audio devices e.g. in parallel to provide improved capabilities data throughput audio quality and or the like.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more network devices . The processor may make use of the one or more network devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions executed by the processor. In one implementation a network device may be a network card that may obtain e.g. via a Category 5 Ethernet cable process output e.g. via a wireless antenna and or the like network data e.g. OPP data . A network card may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB FireWire PC Card ExpressCard and or the like. A network card may be a wired network card e.g. 10 100 1000 optical fiber a wireless network card e.g. Wi Fi 802.11a b g n ac ad Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC TransferJet a modem e.g. dialup telephone based asymmetric digital subscriber line ADSL cable modem power line modem wireless modem based on cellular protocols such as high speed packet access HSPA evolution data optimized EV DO global system for mobile communications GSM worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMax long term evolution LTE and or the like satellite modem FM radio modem radio frequency identification RFID modem infrared IR modem and or the like. For example a network card may be an Intel EXPI9301CT an Intel EXPI9402PT a LINKSYS USB300M a BUFFALO WLI UC G450 a Rosewill RNX MiniN1 a TRENDnet TEW 623PI a Rosewill RNX N180UBE an ASUS USB BT211 a MOTOROLA SB6120 a U.S. Robotics USR5686G a Zoom 5697 00 00F a TRENDnet TPL 401E2K a D Link DHP W306AV a StarTech ET91000SC a Broadcom BCM20791 a Broadcom InConcert BCM4330 a Broadcom BCM4360 an LG VL600 a Qualcomm MDM9600 a Toshiba TC35420 TransferJet device and or the like. A network device may be discreet external embedded integrated into a motherboard and or the like. A network device may operate in combination with other network devices e.g. in parallel to provide improved data throughput redundancy and or the like. For example protocols such as link aggregation control protocol LACP based on IEEE 802.3AD 2000 or IEEE 802.1AX 2008 standards may be used. A network device may be used to connect to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a personal area network the Internet an intranet a Bluetooth network an NFC network a Wi Fi network a cellular network and or the like.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more peripheral devices . The processor may make use of the one or more peripheral devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions executed by the processor. In various implementations a peripheral device may be a digital camera a video camera a webcam an electronically moveable pan tilt zoom PTZ camera a monitor a touchscreen display active shutter 3D glasses head tracking 3D glasses a remote control an audio line in an audio line out a microphone headphones speakers a subwoofer a router a hub a switch a firewall an antenna a keyboard a mouse a trackpad a trackball a digitizing tablet a stylus a joystick a gamepad a game controller a force feedback device a laser sensors e.g. proximity sensor rangefinder ambient temperature sensor ambient light sensor humidity sensor an accelerometer a gyroscope a motion sensor an olfaction sensor a biosensor a chemical sensor a magnetometer a radar a sonar a location sensor such as global positioning system GPS Galileo GLONASS and or the like a printer a fax a scanner a copier a card reader and or the like. A peripheral device may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB FireWire VGA DVI Mini DVI Micro DVI HDMI DisplayPort Thunderbolt composite video S Video component video PC Card ExpressCard serial port parallel port PS 2 TS TRS RCA TOSLINK network connection e.g. wired such as Ethernet optical fiber and or the like wireless such as Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC cellular and or the like a connector of another input output device and or the like. A peripheral device may be discreet external embedded integrated e.g. into a processor into a motherboard and or the like. A peripheral device may operate in combination with other peripheral devices e.g. in parallel to provide the OPP coordinator with a variety of input output and processing capabilities.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more storage devices . The processor may access read from write to store in erase modify and or the like a storage device in accordance with program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions executed by the processor. A storage device may facilitate accessing storing retrieving modifying deleting and or the like data e.g. OPP data by the processor. In one implementation the processor may access data from the storage device directly via the system bus. In another implementation the processor may access data from the storage device by instructing the storage device to transfer the data to the system memory and accessing the data from the system memory. In various embodiments a storage device may be a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a floppy drive using diskettes an optical disk drive e.g. compact disk CD ROM drive CD Recordable CD R drive CD Rewriteable CD RW drive digital versatile disc DVD ROM drive DVD R drive DVD RW drive Blu ray disk BD drive using an optical medium a magnetic tape drive using a magnetic tape a memory card e.g. a USB flash drive a compact flash CF card a secure digital extended capacity SDXC card a network attached storage NAS a direct attached storage DAS a storage area network SAN other processor readable physical mediums and or the like. A storage device may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB FireWire PC Card ExpressCard integrated drive electronics IDE serial advanced technology attachment SATA external SATA eSATA small computer system interface SCSI serial attached SCSI SAS fibre channel FC network connection e.g. wired such as Ethernet optical fiber and or the like wireless such as Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC cellular and or the like and or the like. A storage device may be discreet external embedded integrated e.g. into a motherboard into another storage device and or the like. A storage device may operate in combination with other storage devices to provide improved capacity data throughput data redundancy and or the like. For example protocols such as redundant array of independent disks RAID e.g. RAID 0 striping RAID 1 mirroring RAID 5 striping with distributed parity hybrid RAID just a bunch of drives JBOD and or the like may be used. In another example virtual and or physical drives may be pooled to create a storage pool. In yet another example an SSD cache may be used with a HDD to improve speed.

Together and or separately the system memory and the one or more storage devices may be referred to as memory i.e. physical memory .

OPP memory contains processor operable e.g. accessible OPP data stores . Data stores comprise data that may be used e.g. by the OPP via the OPP coordinator. Such data may be organized using one or more data formats such as a database e.g. a relational database with database tables an object oriented database a graph database a hierarchical database a flat file e.g. organized into a tabular format a binary file e.g. a GIF file an MPEG 4 file a structured file e.g. an HTML file an XML file a text file and or the like. Furthermore data may be organized using one or more data structures such as an array a queue a stack a set a linked list a map a tree a hash a record an object a directed graph and or the like. In various embodiments data stores may be organized in any number of ways i.e. using any number and configuration of data formats data structures OPP coordinator elements and or the like to facilitate OPP operation. For example OPP data stores may comprise data stores implemented as one or more databases. A users data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as UserID UserName UserAvatar UserEmail UserPreferences UserResponseSpace UserColor and or the like. A symbology data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as SymbologyID SymbologySpecifications and or the like. A questions data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as QuestionID QuestionStandard QuestionCourse QuestionContent QuestionType QuestionDifficulty QuestionText QuestionMedia QuestionAnswer and or the like. A polls data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as PollID PollResults PollQuestions PollStatistics PollDate PollTime and or the like. An images data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as ImageID ImageContent ImageDate ImageTime ImageLocation ImageAcquisitionDeviceID and or the like. A responses data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as ResponseID Response RespondentID QuestionID PollID ResponseDate ResponseTime ResponseNumberOfSubmissionsCount and or the like. The OPP coordinator may use data stores to keep track of inputs parameters settings variables records outputs and or the like.

OPP memory contains processor operable e.g. executable OPP components . Components comprise program components including program instructions and any associated data stores that are executed e.g. by the OPP via the OPP coordinator i.e. via the processor to transform OPP inputs into OPP outputs. It is to be understood that the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may be organized in any number of ways i.e. using any number and configuration of components subcomponents capabilities applications OPP coordinator elements and or the like to facilitate OPP operation. Furthermore it is to be understood that the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may communicate among each other in any number of ways to facilitate OPP operation. For example the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may be combined integrated consolidated split up distributed and or the like in any number of ways to facilitate OPP operation. In another example a single or multiple instances of the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may be instantiated on each of a single OPP coordinator node across multiple OPP coordinator nodes and or the like.

In various embodiments program components may be developed using one or more programming languages techniques tools and or the like such as an assembly language Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java LabVIEW Lisp Mathematica MATLAB OCaml PL I Smalltalk Visual Basic for Applications VBA HTML XML CSS JavaScript JavaScript Object Notation JSON PHP Perl Ruby Python Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SSL ColdFusion Microsoft .NET Apache modules Adobe Flash Adobe AIR Microsoft Silverlight Windows PowerShell batch files Tcl graphical user interface GUI toolkits SQL database adapters web application programming interfaces APIs application server extensions integrated development environments IDEs libraries e.g. object libraries class libraries remote libraries remote procedure calls RPCs Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA and or the like.

In some embodiments components may include an operating environment component . The operating environment component may facilitate operation of the OPP via various subcomponents.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include an operating system subcomponent. The operating system subcomponent may provide an abstraction layer that facilitates the use of communication among common services for interaction with security of and or the like of various OPP coordinator elements components data stores and or the like.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponent may facilitate execution of program instructions e.g. OPP program instructions by the processor by providing process management capabilities. For example the operating system subcomponent may facilitate the use of multiple processors the execution of multiple processes multitasking and or the like.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponent may facilitate the use of memory by the OPP. For example the operating system subcomponent may allocate and or free memory facilitate memory addressing provide memory segmentation and or protection provide virtual memory capability facilitate caching and or the like. In another example the operating system subcomponent may include a file system e.g. File Allocation Table FAT New Technology File System NTFS Hierarchical File System Plus HFS Universal Disk Format UDF Linear Tape File System LTFS to facilitate storage retrieval deletion aggregation processing generation and or the like of data.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponent may facilitate operation of and or processing of data for and or from input output devices. For example the operating system subcomponent may include one or more device drivers interrupt handlers file systems and or the like that allow interaction with input output devices.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponent may facilitate operation of the OPP coordinator as a node in a computer network by providing support for one or more communications protocols. For example the operating system subcomponent may include support for the internet protocol suite i.e. Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP of network protocols such as TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP Mobile IP and or the like. In another example the operating system subcomponent may include support for security protocols e.g. Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP Wi Fi Protected Access WPA WPA2 for wireless computer networks. In yet another example the operating system subcomponent may include support for virtual private networks VPNs .

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponent may facilitate security of the OPP coordinator. For example the operating system subcomponent may provide services such as authentication authorization audit network intrusion detection capabilities firewall capabilities antivirus capabilities and or the like.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponent may facilitate user interaction with the OPP by providing user interface elements that may be used by the OPP to generate a user interface. In one implementation such user interface elements may include widgets e.g. windows dialog boxes scrollbars menu bars tabs ribbons menus buttons text boxes checkboxes combo boxes drop down lists list boxes radio buttons sliders spinners grids labels progress indicators icons tooltips and or the like that may be used to obtain input from and or provide output to the user. For example such widgets may be used via a widget toolkit such as Microsoft Foundation Classes MFC Apple Cocoa Touch Java Swing GTK Qt Yahoo User Interface Library YUI and or the like. In another implementation such user interface elements may include sounds e.g. event notification sounds stored in MP3 file format animations vibrations and or the like that may be used to inform the user regarding occurrence of various events. For example the operating system subcomponent may include a user interface such as Windows Aero Mac OS X Aqua GNOME Shell KDE Plasma Workspaces e.g. Plasma Desktop Plasma Netbook Plasma Contour Plasma Mobile and or the like.

In various embodiments the operating system subcomponent may comprise a single user operating system a multi user operating system a single tasking operating system a multitasking operating system a single processor operating system a multiprocessor operating system a distributed operating system an embedded operating system a real time operating system and or the like. For example the operating system subcomponent may comprise an operating system such as UNIX LINUX IBM i Sun Solaris Microsoft Windows Server Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 7 Apple Mac OS X Apple iOS Android Symbian Windows Phone Blackberry QNX and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a database subcomponent. The database subcomponent may facilitate OPP capabilities such as storage analysis retrieval access modification deletion aggregation generation and or the like of data e.g. the use of data stores . The database subcomponent may make use of database languages e.g. Structured Query Language SQL XQuery stored procedures triggers APIs and or the like to provide these capabilities. In various embodiments the database subcomponent may comprise a cloud database a data warehouse a distributed database an embedded database a parallel database a real time database and or the like. For example the database subcomponent may comprise a database such as Microsoft SQL Server Microsoft Access MySQL IBM DB2 Oracle Database and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include an information handling subcomponent. The information handling subcomponent may provide the OPP with capabilities to serve deliver upload obtain present download and or the like a variety of information. The information handling subcomponent may use protocols such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS File Transfer Protocol FTP Telnet Secure Shell SSH Transport Layer Security TLS Secure Sockets Layer SSL peer to peer P2P protocols e.g. BitTorrent and or the like to handle communication of information such as web pages files multimedia content e.g. streaming media applications and or the like.

In some embodiments the information handling subcomponent may facilitate the serving of information to users OPP components nodes in a computer network web browsers and or the like. For example the information handling subcomponent may comprise a web server such as Apache HTTP Server Microsoft Internet Information Services IIS Oracle WebLogic Server Adobe Flash Media Server Adobe Content Server and or the like. Furthermore a web server may include extensions plug ins add ons servlets and or the like. For example these may include Apache modules IIS extensions Java servlets and or the like. In some implementations the information handling subcomponent may communicate with the database subcomponent via standards such as Open Database Connectivity ODBC Java Database Connectivity JDBC ActiveX Data Objects for .NET ADO.NET and or the like. For example the information handling subcomponent may use such standards to store analyze retrieve access modify delete aggregate generate and or the like data e.g. data from data stores via the database subcomponent.

In some embodiments the information handling subcomponent may facilitate presentation of information obtained from users OPP components nodes in a computer network web servers and or the like. For example the information handling subcomponent may comprise a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Google Chrome Opera Mobile Amazon Silk Nintendo 3DS Internet Browser and or the like. Furthermore a web browser may include extensions plug ins add ons applets and or the like. For example these may include Adobe Flash Player Adobe Acrobat plug in Microsoft Silverlight plug in Microsoft Office plug in Java plug in and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a messaging subcomponent. The messaging subcomponent may facilitate OPP message communications capabilities. The messaging subcomponent may use protocols such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Post Office Protocol POP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Real time Transport Protocol RTP Internet Relay Chat IRC Skype protocol AOL s Open System for Communication in Realtime OSCAR Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Facebook API and or the like to facilitate OPP message communications. The messaging subcomponent may facilitate message communications such as email instant messaging Voice over IP VoIP video conferencing Short Message Service SMS web chat and or the like. For example the messaging subcomponent may comprise Microsoft Exchange Server Microsoft Outlook Sendmail IBM Lotus Domino Gmail AOL Instant Messenger AIM Yahoo Messenger ICQ Trillian Skype Google Talk Apple FaceTime Apple iChat Facebook Chat and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a security subcomponent that facilitates OPP security. In some embodiments the security subcomponent may restrict access to the OPP to one or more services provided by the OPP to data associated with the OPP e.g. stored in data stores to communication messages associated with the OPP and or the like to authorized users. Access may be granted via a login screen via an API that obtains authentication information via an authentication token and or the like. For example the user may obtain access by providing a username and or a password e.g. a string of characters a picture password a personal identification number PIN an identification card a magnetic stripe card a smart card a biometric identifier e.g. a finger print a voice print a retina scan a face scan a gesture e.g. a swipe a media access control MAC address an IP address and or the like. Various security models such as access control lists ACLs capability based security hierarchical protection domains and or the like may be used to control access. For example the security subcomponent may facilitate digital rights management DRM network intrusion detection firewall capabilities and or the like.

In some embodiments the security subcomponent may use cryptographic techniques to secure information e.g. by storing encrypted data verify message authentication e.g. via a digital signature provide integrity checking e.g. a checksum and or the like by facilitating encryption and or decryption of data. Furthermore steganographic techniques may be used instead of or in combination with cryptographic techniques. Cryptographic techniques used by the OPP may include symmetric key cryptography using shared keys e.g. using one or more block ciphers such as triple Data Encryption Standard DES Advanced Encryption Standard AES stream ciphers such as Rivest Cipher 4 RC4 Rabbit asymmetric key cryptography using a public key private key pair e.g. using algorithms such as Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA Digital Signature Algorithm DSA cryptographic hash functions e.g. using algorithms such as Message Digest 5 MD5 Secure Hash Algorithm 2 SHA 2 and or the like. For example the security subcomponent may comprise a cryptographic system such as Pretty Good Privacy PGP .

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a virtualization subcomponent that facilitates OPP virtualization capabilities. In some embodiments the virtualization subcomponent may provide support for platform virtualization e.g. via a virtual machine . Platform virtualization types may include full virtualization partial virtualization paravirtualization and or the like. In some implementations platform virtualization may be hardware assisted e.g. via support from the processor using technologies such as AMD V Intel VT x and or the like . In some embodiments the virtualization subcomponent may provide support for various other virtualized environments such as via operating system level virtualization desktop virtualization workspace virtualization mobile virtualization application virtualization database virtualization and or the like. In some embodiments the virtualization subcomponent may provide support for various virtualized resources such as via memory virtualization storage virtualization data virtualization network virtualization and or the like. For example the virtualization subcomponent may comprise VMware software suite e.g. VMware Server VMware Workstation VMware Player VMware ESX VMware ESXi VMware ThinApp VMware Infrastructure Parallels software suite e.g. Parallels Server Parallels Workstation Parallels Desktop Parallels Mobile Parallels Virtuozzo Containers Oracle software suite e.g. Oracle VM Server for SPARC Oracle VM Server for x86 Oracle VM VirtualBox Oracle Solaris 10 Oracle Solaris 11 Informatica Data Services Wine and or the like.

In some embodiments components may include a user interface component . The user interface component may facilitate user interaction with the OPP by providing a user interface. In various implementations the user interface component may include programmatic instructions to obtain input from and or provide output to the user via physical controls e.g. physical buttons switches knobs wheels dials textual user interface audio user interface GUI voice recognition gesture recognition touch and or multi touch user interface messages APIs and or the like. In some implementations the user interface component may make use of the user interface elements provided by the operating system subcomponent of the operating environment component. For example the user interface component may make use of the operating system subcomponent s user interface elements via a widget toolkit. In some implementations the user interface component may make use of information presentation capabilities provided by the information handling subcomponent of the operating environment component. For example the user interface component may make use of a web browser to provide a user interface via HTML5 Adobe Flash Microsoft Silverlight and or the like.

In some embodiments components may include any of the components PA IA HF HV SL SD described in more detail in preceding figures.

The entirety of this disclosure including the written description figures claims abstract appendices and or the like for OPTICAL POLLING PLATFORM METHODS APPARATUSES AND MEDIA shows various embodiments via which the claimed innovations may be practiced. It is to be understood that these embodiments and the features they describe are a representative sample presented to assist in understanding the claimed innovations and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. As such the various embodiments implementations examples and or the like are deemed non limiting throughout this disclosure. Furthermore alternate undescribed embodiments may be available e.g. equivalent embodiments . Such alternate embodiments have not been discussed to preserve space and or reduce repetition. That alternate embodiments have not been discussed is not to be considered a disclaimer of such alternate undescribed embodiments and no inference should be drawn regarding such alternate undescribed embodiments relative to those discussed in this disclosure. It is to be understood that such alternate undescribed embodiments may be utilized without departing from the spirit and or scope of the disclosure. For example the organizational logical physical functional topological and or the like structures of various embodiments may differ. In another example the organizational logical physical functional topological and or the like structures of the OPP coordinator OPP coordinator elements OPP data stores OPP components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like described in various embodiments throughout this disclosure are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement instead all equivalent operating orders and or arrangements are contemplated by this disclosure. In yet another example the OPP coordinator OPP coordinator elements OPP data stores OPP components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like described in various embodiments throughout this disclosure are not limited to serial execution instead any number and or configuration of threads processes instances services servers clients nodes and or the like that execute in parallel concurrently simultaneously synchronously asynchronously and or the like is contemplated by this disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that some of the features described in this disclosure may be mutually contradictory incompatible inapplicable and or the like and are not present simultaneously in the same embodiment. Accordingly the various embodiments implementations examples and or the like are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims.

This disclosure includes innovations not currently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in such currently unclaimed innovations including the rights to claim such innovations and to file additional provisional applications nonprovisional applications continuation applications continuation in part applications divisional applications and or the like. It is to be understood that while some embodiments of the OPP discussed in this disclosure have been directed to optical polling in a classroom setting the innovations described in this disclosure may be readily applied to a wide variety of other fields and or applications.

